ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 9.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 5 March.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u4	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1209. I would remind you that at the afternoon sitting on 5 March the rapporteur incorporated the written report and the general debate took place. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies senators and senators, if the somewhat tumultuous part behind my back lets me speak [[Brusio. References by the President]] I will reply to Senator Falanga, who has complained very much that he had to make his speech in general before the deadline for tabling amendments expired. That is true, but this naturally facilitates the rapporteur, i.e. the undersigned, who in this way, in reply, can in essence take a position and explain why the opinions on the proposed amendments will be of a certain sign. I will start with Senator Falanga's amendment 1.1 (which I do not see: it is a real pity, but I will go on as well). In his general speech, he insisted on talking about a measure which had not been sufficiently discussed in the Commission. On this subject, however, we have discussed a lot in the Commission, and in that place Senator Falanga has supported a diametrically opposite position to that of the amendments he proposed in this House, namely to set a strict deadline of twenty-four months for the duration of the custody period (I see now before me Senator Falanga and I very much welcome that). The problem on which the debate in the Commission has focused - which has been very thorough, careful and absolutely bipartisan, since all political forces have participated without ideological divisions or preclusions - is centred on whether or not to intervene on the provisions of Article 4 of Law No 184 of 1983. It lays down a time limit of twenty-four months for the duration of custody, but in special cases it allows the court to extend it. Many of the amendments tabled by Senator Falanga have exactly this purpose: to set a strict deadline, 24 months and no more. I will have to give an opinion against these amendments, as I did in the Commission, because it is precisely in this House that we have reason to think that there should be discretion in setting this period, because personal and human cases are different. The judge must have the freedom to assess the situation of the child in his or her best interest. If you forgive me the disneyan quote, if the carriage becomes pumpkin at the end of the twelfth toll of midnight, it is nothing but a trust that goes well until the twenty-fourth month, suddenly becomes absolute evil at the twenty-fifth. I repeat that what is the best interest of the child must be assessed. Senator Falanga also raised a problem that exists with regard to the subject of Article 6. I would like to explain what this is all about. Article 6 of Law No 184 lays down the requirements that a couple must meet in order to have access to adoption, which consists, in essence, in the fact that it is a married couple, even with a stable relationship and that there is a certain age difference between the family it adopts and the minor that is adopted. Senator Falanga had raised the problem, but he did not turn this question into an amendment, but others did, proposing that the reference to the requirements of Article 6 be deleted in the draft law we are dealing with today. Well, I call for the withdrawal of the amendments on this point, and I explain why. I am personally convinced that Law 184 of 1983 on foster care and adoptions needs a coupon and that it must be revised because - I address Senator Uras, who has carried out an intervention in general debate touching from the human point of view - it has been a long time and certainly the requirements have to be re-evaluated. I call on all my colleagues to address this debate in depth, trying to reflect on whether or not we need to change the requirements: for example, if we are sure, as an amendment tabled by Senator Uras provided, that the age requirement should go from the present 45 years to the 50 years. On this subject there are no government directives, so let's face it secularly, let's confront the associations, the judges who deal with minors, let's see if really those requirements in Article 6 need to be changed, but let's do an organic reform and we do not use this measure, which has another objective, that is to preserve the emotional continuity of the children in custody, to disrupt other things. Preserving the emotional continuity of children in custody is the reason why we must stress the importance of foster care. The institution of care cannot be distorted, it cannot be transformed into a sort of privileged lane, a reservation of the child to be adopted. The foster care regulated by Articles 4 and 5 of Law No 184 is an extraordinary gift of self that foster families make: they assure children in difficulty a safe place to grow up, but they do so with absolute generosity, because the goal is that that child or child return to his home. As a result, we cannot turn it into a means of unravelling from the adoption rules, booking that child and keeping him as a child, because it would mean that we have completely upset the goal of custody. The custody is precious for the gratuitous gift of the foster families, but above all for the children, in their higher interest, because the main objective is that the minor return home, not that he finds a second family. However, there are situations where this is not possible. It's possible that sometimes the baby can't go home, so what do we do with it? If it is possible, if that family has the requirements set out in Article 6, then it is right that the child should remain there. That is what this bill is for: to give the possibility to foster families, in a situation of prolonged reliance, to submit their applications for adoption. Affective continuity is preserved, because the main objective is always and only the best interest of the minor. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u10	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u11	Mr President, Senators, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Filippin, for touching all the points of the measure. The Government also wants to highlight in this House the importance and balance reached in the basic text, which addresses all issues. The polar star that led the Justice Commission, which I thank, and which the Government has followed was precisely to put the interest of the child at the centre. So, today, in this Chamber, we legislate to strengthen the interest of the child, to safeguard the balance between the various passages and legal institutions that in our legal system have a definite meaning and are well distinct and whose distinction today we want to accentuate not to distort the other institution, but to strengthen it, delineating its borders and also creating a certain continuity. Today custody is a central step that must be emphasized because, always in the interest of the minor, it is the moment that helps not only to cure the minor contributing to the growth of his affections, but also to keep an essential connection with the family of origin. Therefore, the family of origin during custody occupies a central position next to the foster family and together they must team up keeping in contact in the interest of the child. That is what this text wants to do. At the same time, however, if the return of the child to the family of origin is no longer possible, the aim is to enhance the role of the foster family, which was central and important in the path of growth of the child, at the time of adoption. Therefore, once the period of custody has passed, if it is no longer possible to return to the family of origin, the aim is to guarantee the role of the foster family in the adoption process. This is the spirit shared by the Government, which is opposed to putting rigid attitudes in place because on this matter we cannot proceed with rigidities. In fact, just because situations change from case to case, in the interests of the child cannot be fixed too rigid stakes. On the one hand, the judicial authority, in its relationship with social services, must be allowed a constructive confrontation and dialogue in which everyone maintains their autonomy and freedom of assessment, without putting - I repeat - rigidities to which the Government is opposed; on the other hand, even in terms of time there can be no rigidity, because there can be situations that require a limited period of trust and others that need an extension. On this point too, therefore, it is appropriate to leave the possibility for operators and the judiciary to assess on a case-by-case basis. The Government therefore wishes to point out that family custody involves the collection of availability by families not originally oriented towards adoption. So it is also a way to make yourself available to the child and then possibly develop a conviction that might prove useful during the adoption phase, once declared the state of adoption. The custody institution aims to guarantee the child a serene and suitable environment during the time necessary for his biological family to rebuild the conditions to receive him; the foster family must collaborate in this project, promoting the relationship between the child and his family. An adopted project present from the beginning of the reception risks greatly to prejudice the task assigned by the law to the entrusted. It is therefore necessary for this passage to take place; however, after this, it is right that a priority should be established and that the foster family should be allowed to continue this path. Therefore, no rigidity and no elasticity, guided by institutions that are well defined and strengthened.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u12	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We now come to the G100 agenda, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u13	Mr President, the content of the agenda is absolutely acceptable, both in the background and in its conclusions. In order to give a positive opinion, however, I would ask that it be reworded as follows: It is the Government's task to assess the appropriateness of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u14	Senator Mussini, do you accept the rapporteur's proposal for reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u15	I accept the proposed reformulation because the issue is too important. However, since it has happened many times that the agenda was ignored (whether it was a strong commitment or a commitment to evaluate), I really do ask that everyone - the Government, in the first place - should be sensitive to guarantee (especially with the instruments that are being developed in the Ministry of Labour today) what the rapporteur herself said should remain the main objective, namely that the family should be put in a position to have her child back. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u16	I call on the Government representative to comment on the agenda, as reworded.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u17	The Government is in favour of the agenda in the reworded text. I would just like to add that at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which also has the delegation on equal opportunities, an Observatory on Children has been established. There are working groups dedicated to this; the first is addressed to the theme of support for parenthood. Thanks to this Observatory, which has already been set up, a number of measures are being studied. I speak about this to highlight the sensitivity of this Government on the subject of helping to be parents and, therefore, parenting. The other working group (also already set up at the Ministry of Labour) is concerned with support for poverty, and it is proposed to help those who are not in economic conditions which, at times, can play this role. I am referring to those who are prevented from playing this role because of poverty. The Government is therefore already present on the subject. I wanted to point out these initiatives. In any case, this agenda will well come, because it will allow the government to further explore these issues, in which it believes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u20	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, we fully share the spirit, the framework and the approach of the G100 agenda. In fact, if the primary objective is really to be able to rebuild the original nucleus of the family, it is precisely the original family that must be helped. We have seen several times that in family communities the trusts have exorbitant social costs, even reaching 3,000 euros per month for the youngest child entrusted. We can think that, with the least part of these numbers of help to the family, we could actually put the original nuclei in condition (if they were not) to be able to provide for the care, training and anything else of their children. Therefore, on behalf of all the Senators of the Lega Nord Group, I would ask Mr Mussini and the other signatories to sign the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u21	The Presidency takes note of this. Having been accepted by the Government, the G100 agenda (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u22	We now come to the examination of the articles of the draft law, in the text proposed by the Commission. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u23	Mr President, the amendments I have proposed all converge towards the objective of limiting, or pre-determined, the duration of custody (distracted senator Filippin, I listened to her when she spoke about me, now I would like you to listen to me). Only the last amendment makes a purely technical suggestion. In fact, you have given this bill as its title: Amendments to Law No 184, 4 May 1983 on adoptions, but since the proposed rule does not at all alter the institution of adoption, but rather that of custody, with amendment Tit.101, I have suggested that you change the title of the measure to: - Amendments to Law No 184 of 4 May 1983 on the custody of minors. I still insist that a predetermined duration of the period of custody be established in order to avoid confusion between the two institutions. The institution of custody, in fact, sees the foster family, that is the entrusted subject (because even a single person can be a foster subject of a minor) alongside the family of origin with a role of support to the minor to ensure a recovery, whether it is a recovery, or in any case, during the period of difficulty of his family of origin, to ensure that the child is grown, educated and cared for in place of the family of origin, in view, however, of a return of the minor to the family of origin. This is the point: the judge who arranges the custody of a minor must carry out an elementary operation, simple, of presumption. The court, that is, must provide whether the family of origin of the child can, in a short time, give the child again that assistance which the child needs. On the agenda of Senator Mussini, whom I share, I would almost say that the cases in which the judge must proceed to custody have been typicalized: the imprisonment of one of the parents or both or a moment of separation and disintegration of the family of origin. These are cases in which the judge must provide that for a certain period of time the minor will need a caregiver to support him. That is why I propose that we avoid the prolonged period of custody. In general discussion, I have mentioned cases in which the trusts have been extended for fifteen years: we cannot fail to make a clear, determined and convinced distinction between the institution of custody and the institution of adoption. That is why I have asked, with amendment 01.1, that the person requesting custody of the child must declare the existence of the conditions laid down in Article 6 of Law No 184. It is clear, in fact, that if a minor is entrusted to a subject or in any case to a family that does not meet the requirements of Article 6, we can write the most beautiful fairy tales in the world and say that the judge must take account of the emotional ties, but in the absence of the above requirements it is useless: the judge, however much he wants to take into account, has a barrier, the rock of the impossibility to proceed to the adoption of that minor by those entrusted subjects. I want to make the judge responsible. I believe that the judges have the possibility, the abilities, the wisdom and the balance to be able to assume this responsibility. I rely on a minor, when I have the certainty that the latter will surely be able to return to the family of origin, except for exceptional cases. But, at the time we saw, with the experience of the cases in progress in recent years on the basis of the current rule, that this uncertainty of the duration of the custody has meant that the custody itself has lasted for sixteen years, an adoption has actually taken place, in violation of the requirements that are required by the institution of the adoption in order to be able to adopt a child. Senator Filippin, you have found in some way contradictory to what I said in the Commission some of the amendments I have signed. Actually, unlike you and others, I have the ability to change my convictions on the basis of observations that come from others. I pay close attention to the suggestions that come from my interlocutors and frequently it also occurs that, if my interlocutor is intelligent and says things that can be shared, I see my thought modified. You are well aware that the amendments I made were of different hands and minds; they were in fact of Senator Alberti Casellati, whom I also value very much from the scientific point of view, because she is particularly careful and prepared in this regard. Senator Alberti Casellati had imagined this rule, convinced me and so I made these amendments to myself. It is not a question of contradiction: simply, unlike him or others, if someone convinces me in the prime interest, in this case of the minor (so he understands how much attention we must pay to the subject), I change my thinking. She probably doesn't, but I do. In conclusion, Mr President, on the deadline of two years for custody, I repeat my conviction that the judge, when he declares a child entrusted to third parties (i.e. to other persons), provides for the period of custody. In fact, if there is no possibility of recovery, after a limited period of custody, then the judge must proceed to the adoption and the decree of adoption. It is clear that, in doing so, one eliminates the confusion whereby the two institutes that, however, are and for how much we strive to keep distinct (here I understand and appreciate the effort of Senator Filippin), necessarily go side by side with each other, for their nature and for their social function; and often it can happen that they confuse each other, also in conviction, also in relationship, also in affective bond. The parent to whom a child is entrusted, after ten years, has convinced himself that he is his son - believe me - and it is good that it is so for the child. The minor who is entrusted for a limited period of time must know that he is a guest in that family as he is cared for and supported by it, but that his family is another. The child who is adopted, on the other hand, must enter the family as a child, feel son and feel father and mother to the two parents who adopted him. For these reasons, I would insist that my amendments be adopted, and I would ask Senator Mussini to be able to sign his agenda, which I can say in the contents of which I agree.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u24	Mr President, I have tabled a number of amendments which are based on a concept: the law in force, much of which remains unchanged even if the draft law in question is adopted, makes a radical distinction between custody and adoption. The custody - and this is not stated by an opinion, but by Article 5 of Law No 184 of 1983 - is not a provisional adoption, it is not a prodromic act to the adoption or its success: it is part of a project aimed, where possible, at restoring the conditions for which the child can return to his family of origin. The foster family should be, indeed, the main but not the only protagonist of this project, besides of course the minor. For this reason, from the beginning the foster family should be aware of this difference: it must not pre-constitute the conditions for this expectation to become stable or become an adoption, but it should do exactly the opposite. For these reasons, the current distinction between custody and adoption is appropriate. Article 5 of Law No 184, paragraph 2 states that: The social service, within the framework of its own competences, at the disposal of the judge or according to the needs of the case, carries out educational and psychological support, facilitates relations with the family of origin and the return to the same child, in accordance with the most appropriate ways, also using the professional skills of the other structures....................................................................................................................................................................................... Paragraph 1 of the same article also states that the affidavit must take into account the indications of the parents of the family of origin, of course where possible, where these exist, but if they were not there would be no expectation but adoption. The law also states that custody should have a maximum period of 24 months, which can only be extended in serious cases. However, those who actually work in this sector tell us that the twenty-four-month period is actually considered minimum rather than maximum; usually in those twenty-four months there is no real attempt at reintegration into the family of origin and the extension is done almost automatically, so that there are cases of custody of four, six, seven or eight years. It is clear that after such a long period a relationship is inevitably created so that in this sense the inclusion of paragraph 5-a, which leads almost naturally to the adoption of what is relied upon, becomes appropriate. The law in force today should be applied and it should continue to apply: the 24-month deadline should be respected, but the draft that should be drawn up by social services in most cases is not there. And there is not for a number of reasons: because this project would require and presuppose continuity in the staff of social services, which often does not exist. There are additions, transfers, travels and career advancements, so over this period, which should last a maximum of two years, if the child and the foster family had relations with social services they would have a number of different people, whose efficiency and good will (which we cannot take for granted, because they too are human beings) would still be insufficient to make up for the continuous change. We are in a situation where, given that the law is not applied today (and will be applied even less, if we approve these rules), we end up taking note of this failure to apply. The custody should be totally different from the adoption, and not because it is a B-series measure. It is a noble gesture that of families who accept children in foster care, as well as those of families who accept them in adoption, but this institution should be separated from adoption. It is the same difference between the teacher and the family. They're two different institutions. The teacher must take the utmost care of the children who are entrusted to him, as the tenant must do, but they are not his children and they will not become him. But as the law rightly says, in parts that are not changed, custody should do exactly the opposite of adoption and include a project that allows these children to return to their original families. Do we want to say a few words about Article 403 of the Civil Code and the fact that an employee of social services, without the magistrate having anything to do with it, perhaps an alternate social worker, decides that children do not live in a suitable family environment (maybe because the house is not clean enough and comfortable)? These children are taken to school, so that their parents do not see them and they do not see their parents, taken to a place far from their residence, and then torn from their family, their school and then given in foster care to someone. It is clear that after such trauma the problem emerges. But should we not intervene on what lies at the root, namely on Article 403 of the Civil Code, before intervening on the consequences? When we talk about children in foster care, we talk with the heart and, at the thought of having a child in foster care, we agree that you get sick after ten minutes. Let's imagine then after two years, four or six, which is the term until which often, illegally, the custody is continued. And what is the origin of this trust? The fact that these children are being taken away, kidnapped at a school, without their parents even being informed about where they are. And maybe these parents have the sole fault of not having a home that social services consider appropriate, without perhaps ever having seen it. Perhaps it would be better to have a little more caution and look at the whole measure without just saying: the foster carers have become attached to the children, so let's leave them to them. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u25	A representation of students from the Technical Institute of Commerce (Guido Piovene) in Vicenza, to whom we address our greetings, is present today in the Chamber. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u26	Mr President, the amendment that I am going to present is unique and also relatively simple. It calls for Article 1 of the draft law to be broken down, leaving only paragraphs 5-b and 5-c which, in fact, are autonomous in scope and do not undermine the philosophy and approach of the measure. Not only those who speak, but also the associations that deal with the custody of minors and original families, have seen with some concern paragraph 5-a, which is intended to be included in Article 4 of Law No 184 of 1983. Even the fact of predicting a date and leaving what, with a bad word, can be called the preferential route or the pre-emption of the foster family in the subsequent adoption of minors, creates not a few risks. There are two very recent judgments, one of the court of Florence and one of the court of Bologna, which conclude proceedings, the first of which lasted two years and the second - that of the court of Bologna - lasted even seven years, which saw minors in custody, first with families and then with family communities. These two cases - and I hope they are not the only two cases in the country - have fortunately seen the recomposition of the original family. Therefore, for these children - for these children tossed even for seven years - it has been possible to define the conditions for the recomposition of the original family. So these kids are back with their original mother. We should therefore discuss the situations that have led to the trusts, and I would like to thank Mr Mussini and the other signatories to the G100 agenda who have brought attention to the living situation of the problem. Article 403 of the Civil Code provides for a very fast form of reliance, when conditions are met, one of which is the judgment, for example, on the inadequacy of the household or on the unhealthiness of the places where these children live. If we went to look at the adequacy of all the parents of the country or even the health of many sites and buildings in which Italian families live, probably, interpreting the norm to the letter, there would be the risk of having an infinite amount of minors that would be in the condition of being entrusted. This should be the extreme ratio, but since in the vast majority of cases this is for economic reasons, namely the fact that the family is losing their jobs - as it happens more and more easily - and consequently not being able to pay the rent of the property in which they live, to be evicted and not to find a suitable place to live. So many families can be found in this condition. Since custody situations should be used temporarily to allow return to the original family, the problem must be shifted to aid and attention, which the community should put at the centre of its action: the original family must be supported when it is in a position to not be able to carry out a training, growth and education activity towards its children. The second deficit aspect of this measure is the fact that reference is made to the "family communities" when there are no foster families, but the family communities do not exist. In other words, there are no family communities as intended by the original norm, that is, environments that replicate the parental environment. The family communities are - alas - those who, with a word today desueta, were the orphanages of the past, managed by lay people or religious organizations. So there is also a lack of what the law provides, regarding family communities. Therefore, a system of guarantees should be built, family communities should be provided, if there are no foster parents, and economic assistance should be provided when a family actually finds itself unable to carry out normal activities, because this is the core of the family. Let's say that the courts of minors, wishing to dispose (this is also the leitmotiv), speed up and make more efficient the system of justice, decided, if we put some time terms, that dedicate two years to the foster family are given in adoption the children. How many nuclei are we going to break down at that point? I have brought only two examples, because the undersigned has a partial vision of things, but if it happens - there are judgments that testify - that after seven years the children tossed can return to the original nucleus, we do not make the mistake to say that after two years these children are adopted by the foster family because many magistrates, even in good faith, with this provision would close so many files and they would statistically also make a beautiful figure because they close the practices and define the causes. For all these arguments, which I may have even confusedly listed, I think it is appropriate to maintain this prediction, because who can deny that emotional ties are created between the foster caregivers and the children, who recognize so many as second parents or to whom they feel a sense of gratitude for all that they have done that will remain for life? These affective relationships cannot be refuted, however, to establish that this will trigger after a number of years the adoption towards them is extremely dangerous. If we read carefully the following paragraphs we see that it is said first of all to listen to minors, even if they are less than twelve years old if they are able to have a minimum of conscience and discernment. It is also said that the adoption made after screening, the declaration of adoption, the fact that the child makes a request to return to the family of origin or to another family and everything that responds to the interest of the child must be put as a preamble to everything, before being able to define the issue with the final adoption. Therefore, the spirit, the cornerstone of this affective relationship, remains standing, which, if it exists and the minor prefers it, may be the right path, but by removing the first point, that is paragraph 5-a, we would avoid irreversible mess in the interests of minors. [[Applause from Senator Council.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u27	Mr President, first of all, I would like to refer to the amendments I have tabled to paragraph 5-a, because this rule comes into being in a situation that is not clear at all. In fact, we are talking about a prolonged period of custody, but we are in such a situation that in Italy it is not clear what is meant by prolonged reliance and, as my colleague said before me, there are some departures that are done in an absolutely discretionary way and not entirely corresponding to real dangers. For example, we still have Article 403 of the Civil Code, on which I have also tabled a draft amending law because it leaves room for these discretionary removal procedures which should in some way be changed and protected. That is why I think it is absolutely essential to amend paragraph 5-a. If a change is not possible, I would ask you to delete it, because that is not what you can ask for at a time when there is no clarity. As a 5 Star Movement, we are in favour of granting a preferential lane for adoption to families who have already fostered their children and have therefore established positive links with them. However, we cannot ignore so many other situations which are not clear, which therefore cannot at this moment allow a genuine procedure for the recovery of the family of origin, since there is neither a plan for this purpose. In Amendment 1,104 amending paragraph 5-a, I therefore foresee an experimented, suitable and proven project for the reintegration of the child into the family of origin, at least with the aim of asking for this care to be taken in relation to a verified recovery plan; otherwise, there is a risk of moving from a prolonged, but unsuitable, foster care to adoption, without the possibility of intervention by family members.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u28	Mr President, in saying that I would really like the rapporteur to listen, I would like to point out that I have included in the amending proposals a number of doubts and doubts that have been raised so far. In this measure, undoubtedly, we value the relationship and the bond created between the child entrusted and the foster family. The first signatory to the bill knows well that during the sessions of the Justice Commission, when Senator Alberti Casellati was still present, there was a long discussion about the actual danger of confusing an extended period of custody with a kind of encouragement to the child's declaration of adoption. On the other hand, it must be absolutely without prejudice to the principle that the child must remain as long as possible in the natural family. Yesterday we held a very long debate on the concept of parenthood and the difference in the attitude in European law and culture compared to others. We have reiterated that parenting still implies a special relationship with children, so much so that we are opposed to the adoption of kafala, as it does not guarantee the transfer of this complete parenting. We must recognise that this must still be the priority. In the wording of paragraph 5-a there is a problem, which, at first reading, in the overall nature of the article, could be seen superficially, while this law text will be used for what it says word by word (because this is what I learned in the Justice Commission: an articulated one is evaluated and weighed word by word and proposition by proposition). In this text, as dismissed by the Commission, we have a dangerous relationship with the concept that the child is deemed to be adopted under the provisions of Chapter II of Title II, which is a path that must be considered absolutely autonomous from any other element. The statement concerning a minor, according to which he, child or child, will never return to his natural family again, must have a whole series of requirements that are laid down by law and must not create any interference between what we are doing today and the principles for which a child or child can be declared adoptable. This must be saved. It is most inappropriate then that the engraving following a prolonged period of custody should remain in relation to the provision that the minor should be declared adopted. That is not the spirit of the provision. The spirit of this bill, as recognized by the same first signatory, Senator Puglisi, is to ensure that where, with an autonomous path, there is a declaration of adoption of the child (which is adopted by the foster family, which is adopted by another family), the possibility for the foster family to maintain affective ties is guaranteed and, if the foster family has the requirements to request adoption, the evaluation is also made in relation to the extended period of custody. This is a formulation that also responds to the fears that have been emphasized several times by Senators Falanga, Divine and Blund, and in reality amendment 1,109, which I have also subscribed to and which, in truth, has been proposed by the associations, aimed at replacing the words "follow-up" with the word "during" not only does not solve the problem of the placement (because it remains, however, placed in the wrong proposition, that is, in the concept in which it is said that the child becomes adoptable) but does not even correspond to what is actually the general spirit of the measure, namely that, following a prolonged period of reliance, affective ties are guaranteed if it is in the interests and protection of minors. The same principle is also contained in amendment 1,113, in which the concept of a prolonged period of custody is shifted where it is correctly to be included. I believe that, going to observe all the parts of this bill, we must also be careful that this is an extremely heterogeneous matter, in which there are multiple elements and people and in which the paths, which are the ones that lead to the custody and then to the declaration of adoption of the child, are difficult paths, in which in reality every child should be a case to himself, but in reality every child becomes a number. We must be very careful, because every judge and lawyer, when they are in front of a text, for each child are then required to evaluate and weigh everything contained in the text. We must not, therefore, make mistakes, which are at this time errors of superficiality, which could affect what is instead a significant path in the interpretation of this article. [[Applause from Senators Bencini, Bignami and Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u29	Mr President, I have tabled three amendments and I would like to start with the last one, because - also on the basis of the various speeches by the previous senators - I would like to correct the title of the measure and make it so clear that the real intention of this text is that it contains rules on the right to continuity of affection for children and girls in foster care. This is the intention of the entire bill. The rapporteur has already said well on the issue of short-term care and delete, as Senator Malan or Senator Blundo asked, in Article 1, paragraph 5-a means virtually making the text of this measure totally ineffective, which - I would like to stress - as has been the case with the Senate's Justice Commission (for which I thank the President, the rapporteur and the Leaders) is unanimously shared by the national table for adoptions and entrusting it. What we are now about to approve are standards of true civilization that have long been awaited. I would point out that I accept the request for withdrawal made by the rapporteur for amendment 1.110, which I have tabled together with other Senators and other Senators of the Democratic Party, and I turn it into an agenda, but call for a commitment by the Government to rewrite the requirements of Article 6 of Law No 184, and, in my opinion, Article 44 of the same law, relating to adoption in particular cases. However, the intention of that amendment - I would like to stress this - was not to open shortcuts for the adoption of singles, rather to equate the rights of children who go into family custody to singles, as the law already allows to do (and less harm!), because family care, linked to the availability of people, has dropped by 16 percent in the last five years. We still have over 14,000 children living in family communities, which involve other kinds of attention and care for the growth of children and girls. Therefore, it is a matter of equalizing the rights of children that a court and social services decide to entrust to a single one to those of children that a court and social services have instead entrusted to families who are regularly married. This is what we are talking about with the law under consideration: the right of children to the integrity of their history, to the integrity of their affections. The measure under consideration continues to be a separate institution from that of adoption. We believe, however, that a child cannot be bleach from his or her own affections, the same ones that helped him to grow up in his or her own life. Therefore, I withdraw Amendment No 1,110 simply because I know that the excellent is sometimes an enemy of the good and this bill, if approved, will really make it possible to make considerable progress on the rights of children. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u30	Mr President, I should like to focus briefly on the illustration of Amendment No 1,111 in order to make a few comments. We have listened carefully to what has been said in the general debate and when the amendments are being presented, and we understand the importance of the draft law under consideration. In fact, we are not discussing, as is clear from some speeches, a overlap between custody and adoption, but we are talking about the right to children, to parenthood and the right of children to live in the family. We are well aware of the need to distinguish the institution of custody from that of adoption, which not only have as a distinguishing feature the value of temporaryity and the other the value of stability, but we also want to fully grasp the social character of humanity and the generosity that custody expresses. We, too, are convinced that this draft law is not drawing a preferential lane towards adoptions and we say so because, although we share some speeches, starting from the reflections of the rapporteur, Mrs Filippin, we recognize that if there is a real problem with adoptions in Italy, this concerns the length of time and difficulties of adoption. I remember that years ago a political force, Forza Italia, set up an electoral campaign on the simplification of adoptions. Today, however, we are still experiencing many difficulties. But the theme is complex and cannot be solved in a schematic way. In fact, we are talking about difficult situations; we are talking about children. I agree that, with this bill and with the proposal that is made, two principles must be held together: the protection of an institution such as that of foster care, but also the continuity of affection and, above all, the supreme interest of children and girls, which risks being, at times, underestimated. Why, then, have we tabled this amendment? Simply because we would like, for once, the existing legislation to be adapted to the reality. In fact, as has been said in so many interventions, today children are given in foster care, not only to couples with marriage ties (as mentioned in Article 6 of the Law of 4 May 1983, n.184), but also to couples living together or to individuals. We must certainly respect the bond of emotional continuity, the right to the family and, of course, the right in the supreme interest of children, where there are those conditions that do not allow the return to the family, which is a priority for us (there would therefore be a question of what the State does or must do to remove all those obstacles to which Article 3 of the Constitution refers and allow, precisely, families to whom children have been taken to see them return and live serenely), however, when this is not possible, the right of children and girls to a serene life and a future must be guaranteed. With this amendment we simply take a picture of the reality that is reported to us every day also by the courts for minors, as well as by associations. We therefore believe that Parliament, without introducing shortcuts for other political reasons referred to by the rapporteur, must courageously take a decision on this amendment, in the best interests of children. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u31	Amendment 1,115 concerns only and exclusively the part of protection of the emotional and emotional state. In fact, this bill must certainly take into account above all the affectivity and the part of the affective state of the foster family, and of the child in foster care. Therefore, I would ask the rapporteur to give an opinion in favour of my amendment and therefore to be able to include this amendment in the text of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u32	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u33	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u34	On Amendment 01.1, tabled by Senator Falanga, the opinion is against and I explain why. The adopted project from the beginning, as Senator Falanga would like, presents risks of affecting the nature of the foster care itself. It is true, however, that this issue is important, since we consider the issue of adoption as a possibility for foster families. I should therefore like to ask Senator Falanga whether he is prepared to turn the amendment into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u35	Senator Falanga, what is your orientation?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u36	There is an entirely theoretical willingness, but I would like to know how the rapporteur intends to turn the amendment into a agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u37	The text is that of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u38	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). I would like to know the wording of the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u39	Adding the words at the beginning of the text: It is the Government's task to assess the appropriateness of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u40	Senator Falanga, do you accept the change of the amendment to an agenda in the wording proposed by the senator? FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). I accept, President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u41	I am opposed to Amendment No 1,100, especially for paragraph 5-c, because it amends the text from the Commission, which is, inter alia, in line with the law on listening to the child. I also object to Amendment 1.1 because it re-examines the issue of a tight 24-month period on which my opinion is absolutely contrary for the reasons I have already explained in reply. With regard to Amendment No 1,101, which is identical to Amendments Nos 1,102 and 1,103, the opinion is totally opposed because these are amendments which delete the heart of the measure and, in fact, deprive the bill of its foundation. My view is also opposed to Amendment No 1.06 for the reasons already given, namely the reference to a rigid period of 24 months as a maximum period for foster care. With regard to Amendment No 1,104, which proposes the wording: "Experimented a suitable and proven plan for the reintegration of the child into the family of origin" () my opinion is contrary because the current wording of Article 4 (3) of Law No 184 of 1983 is already sufficiently clear as to the path to be taken before the custody and supervision of the continuation of the custody itself. I also object to Amendment 1,105 and also to Amendment 1,107, which provides for the deletion of the words: "prolonged period" before the word "confidence" is used. On the other hand, I am in favour of Amendment No 1,108, which is identical to Amendment No 1,109, because it provides for the replacement of the words: 'followed by the term 'during' which removes the question of cause-effect which could instead be raised by the current formula. Amendment 1,110, identical to amendment 1,111, has been turned into an agenda and we have just received the text, so I would ask that we be able to examine it before giving an opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendment 1,111, although identical to Amendment 1,110, has been retained as an amendment, so I would ask you to give your opinion on it anyway. FILIPPIN, rapporteur. I am against Amendments Nos 1,111 and 1,112. With regard to Amendment No 1,113, I would ask Senator Mussini whether she accepts a proposal for reformulation. If this proposal is accepted, the opinion on the amendment will be in favour. I propose to replace the initial part of the amendment with the following rewording: "Replace paragraph 5-b by the following: "5-b. If, as a result of a period of custody, the adjective "prolonged" is not used, the minor returns to the family of origin or is given to another family or adopted by another family, it is nevertheless protected.......................................................................................................................................................................... The remaining part remains the same as the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mussini, do you agree with the rewording of amendment 1,113 proposed by the rapporteur? MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The rapporteur's opinion on amendment 1,113 (text 2) is therefore in favour. FILIPPIN, rapporteur. I am against Amendments Nos 1, 10, 1,114, 1,115, 1,1116, 1,117, 1,1118 and 1,1119. Let me just say one thing: almost all of these amendments stem from a kind of distrust of judges and supervisory bodies. I think, however, that, rather than proposing an overabundance of rules, we should monitor the conduct of judges. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would remind you that you should also give your opinion on the agenda for G1.110, Senator Filippin. FILIPPIN, rapporteur. I would ask you for a minute, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, let's go ahead with the government's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u42	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. As far as the agenda is concerned, Mr G01.1, we look forward to seeing the text. The opinion on amendment 01.1 would have been against, because, as it was formulated, this amendment prevented the custody of households that were not available for adoption. On the other hand, a rewording on an agenda may be useful, which commits the Government to enhancing its willingness to adopt later as a criterion of preference between several families requiring custody, but not as an indispensable requirement.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u43	The rapporteur had made it possible for the amendment to be changed on the agenda, putting it back to the Government's assessment. It seems to me that undersecretary Ferri is now asking for a change in some parts, if I understand correctly, so we would need a text. , State Secretary for Justice. No, Mr President, I turn to the rapporteur. If the text remains that of the amendment, that is fine.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u46	GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G01.1 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u49	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, although the rapporteur has not made an invitation to withdraw, I am withdrawing Amendment No 1,100 on my own. In withdrawing it, however, I would like to point out that the reasoning that has been made, according to which this law has achieved a satisfactory and therefore acceptable balance, risks being contradicted by agendas such as those of Mr Falanga or Mr Puglisi. It is said that the content of the original amendments would be a source of conflict, but then they are transformed into agendas which in some way deny the invitation of the rapporteur and Senator Puglisi herself. In an autonomous measure the problems of the age of those who can adopt (in the relationship between foster and adoption) and a whole series of other issues will be taken into account. However, if we are to vote on the same issues on the agenda as the amendments that have been withdrawn, precisely because they are divisive, it does not seem to me that we are taking a big step forward. I therefore withdraw my amendment 1,100 and then I will do so for others, but we are voting on this draft law and committing the Government to the content of unshared amendments, which seems to me to be a divisive operation that weakens the action and already puts its hands on issues which, at least for us, must be very in-depth, such as the maintenance or not of Article 6 of Law 184.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u50	So Amendment 1,100 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.1 tabled by Senator Falanga. (The vote was followed).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u52	I shall cancel the vote. You have the floor, Senator Falanga.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u53	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I shall withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u54	In addition to canceling the vote, due to technical problems we must repeat the verification of the support to the request for electronic voting made by Senator Gaetti. I therefore ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,101, tabled by Senator Malan, identical to Amendments 1,102, tabled by Senator Divina, and 1,103, tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,106 tabled by Senator Falanga. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,104, tabled by Senator Blondo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,105, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,107, tabled by Senator Blondo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,108, tabled by Senator Puglisi and other senators, identical to amendment 1,109, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,110 has been turned into an agenda. Reading of the text: The Senate, when examining draft law n. 1209, commits the Government to consider whether it is appropriate to protect the right to continuity of the affections of children and girls in foster care, including by verifying the possibility to modify the requirements of Articles 6 and 44 of Law n. 184 of 1983. ==
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u57	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in the course of the Commission's work, as Senator Filippin correctly said, the problem has been tackled without any ideological foreclosure and there has been bipartisan work to try to solve it in the best way possible, or at least in what seemed to us to be the best possible way, the problem raised in Senator Puglisi's bill. There was discussion of child care, and it is no coincidence, for example, that Senator Filippin, in expressing her opinion on Senator Falanga's first amendment, although very reasonable in some respects, expressed her opposition in the fear that this amendment might create confusion between the institution of care and the very different institution of adoption. Now, Mr President, everything that has happened in the Commission is bound to fall on this agenda G1.110. Evidently, we are calling for everyone to fully assume their responsibilities. And it is clear that the vote on this agenda will also depend on the final vote that the Forza Italia party will give this bill. We all need to be very clear here. What does it mean to amend the provisions of Law No 184 of 1983 to Articles 6 (on adoptions) and 44 (on special adoptions)? It means only one thing, which is not even denounced in the text, being the commitment that the Government is asked to consider the opportunity to modify in absolutely generic terms and not specified the discipline above. In other words, a clear reference is made to what is another problem under discussion in the Commission with regard to civil unions: basically, custody and adoption in the presence of unmarried couples and not necessarily of different sex. Therefore, when asking to change this discipline, the Government is essentially asked to consider the opportunity to take the necessary initiatives to allow the custody and adoption of children inserted in non-heterosexual couples. Gentlemen, the problem is then very simple. It does not seem to me that this is a problem that can be tackled and resolved in such an instrumental way with an agenda, without there being a deepening of this on the part of all political forces, with a serious assumption of responsibility for the vote that will have to be given on this management. I do not know what the House's orientations are on this particular point. What I know is that a responsible legislator puts his face on the decisions he is going to take. That is to say - and I say this to my colleagues in Forza Italia and to my colleagues in the New Right Centre, who are also part of that majority in the Government - that, coming to be accepted this agenda by the Government, they will have to take charge of modifying this discipline in the above-mentioned sense. In other words, it is clear that what the government is asked to do is to influence discipline. I realise that Undersecretary Ferri is a technician and that this is probably a problem of a low technical level. On the political level, however, it is important to decide whether discipline should be changed in terms and in the sense of allowing custody and adoption even to couples who are not heterosexual, as well as not being married. [[Applause from Senator Bianconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u60	Mr PUGLISI (PD). Mr President, I listened to President Palma. I understand that on this measure, which is much awaited by the whole world and by all the operators involved in foster care and adoptions, unfortunately, there is the spectre of another debate, which is the one concerning civil unions. I want to clear the field of these fears. I keep saying that children's rights come first. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I hope that courts and social services are fully aware (and I know they are) of the need to guarantee all children (regardless of whether they rely on a single person or on a regular married couple). I want to clear the field from this misunderstanding too, and therefore also withdraw the agenda G1.110 (text 2), so that this bill goes on. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u61	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1,111, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u64	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, my intention was to cast an abstention vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u65	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u68	CHITI (PD). Mr President, my intention was to vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u69	The Presidency takes note of this. [[Senator Cirinna's comments.]] The same goes for Senator Cirinna. Members may communicate any errors in the vote directly to the Offices.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u70	We greet the teachers and students... [[Applause.]] Colleagues, let me at least tell you the name of the school before I applaud. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The applause is made after the name of the school has been communicated: it is a form of respect. Don't be serious doesn't give a good picture. We therefore greet the teachers and students of the Professional Institute "Fedele Lampertico" in Vicenza, who are here to follow the work of the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u71	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1,112, tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,113 has been reworded in a text 2, as proposed by the rapporteur. The new text of the amendment is therefore as follows: Where, following a period of custody, the minor returns to the family of origin or is given in custody to another family or adopted by another family, the continuity of the positive socio-affective relations established during custody shall be maintained if it is in the interests of the child. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,113 (text 2), tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.10, 1.114 and 1.115 are therefore excluded. Colleagues, I remind you that you can communicate to the offices any errors in the expression of your vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,116, tabled by Senator Blondo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.117 tabled by Senator Simeoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.118.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u74	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment No 1,118 in order to prevent the Senate from rejecting it. I must say that I very much appreciate the fact that the rapporteur has given an explanation of the opinions for and against the amendments and I hope that this is the custom of all the rapporteurs, because otherwise we will only become a voter. [[Applause from SenatorsFucksia, Naccarato and Tonini.]] In her explanatory statement, the rapporteur said that, rather than introducing these mechanisms, we must monitor the behaviour of the judge. I wonder how we can monitor the behaviour of the judge, who as we know is subject only to the law or the CSM: in other words, the judge does not answer to anyone. Therefore, it would not be bad to create mechanisms, which we should perhaps study in another circumstance. One cannot think of relying solely on the evaluation of social services, which are often involved in the consultation process. Social services often do not see these children: they told me just now about children in foster care, who for the first four months have never seen any of the social services: they complained about the foster family. What relationship can these people have? Listening to the child is also provided for in the Brussels Convention, which even provides for the child to have the right to appoint his lawyer. How do things work today? The social service appoints a person, who in turn appoints an attorney. In other words, the child is not even taken into account unless the social service wants to do so. But if social service actually takes care of the child, this child doesn't need a lawyer. It would be like saying that anyway, in case of divorce, the husband chooses his wife's lawyer. Which, if it's consensual, is fine, but if there's any small difference, I don't think it's the greatest protection. I therefore believe that we must study this matter. If you want to reject this proposal, then you have to study something different. And even listening to the minor cannot be done by picking him up, taking him to a courtroom, with everything he wants to say, where he listens to a judge who often speaks in "juridical" - he talks like this, because he does his job - and asks him questions. This child is not able to make a contribution, even when he is over the age of 12. On the contrary, a person who knows communication with children and knows how to do this could give support to children under the age of 12 years. I think we're doing a series of things very lightly. I withdraw the amendment, but I do not think we are doing something well. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u77	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Senator Malan has withdrawn this wise amendment, which I intend to make my own in order to offer the rapporteur the opportunity to consider the possibility of turning it into an agenda, so that the procedure can also be enriched with the contribution of the parties with technical advice and not be limited to very short periods and evaluations of social services or consultants, without allowing a more complete contradictory. Senator Filippin, the extent of the contradictory is an expression of democracy and guarantees. Senator Malan imagined a more evidence-rich process to enable a wiser decision. Then I wonder why I should withdraw it. Senator Malan, I will therefore do so myself and you, rapporteur, will at least reflect on the desirability of giving a positive opinion on the possible transformation into the agenda of this right, appropriate and correct amendment, which goes in the direction of further examination by the judge before adopting a measure that is so incisive in the life of the child and of the same families.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u80	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). President. - I call the rapporteur. With regard to Senator Malan's amendment, I would ask Senator Falanga, who has now done so, to be able to reformulate it. I propose that the following be inserted in the text of paragraph 5-c: For the purposes of the decisions referred to in paragraphs 5-a and 5-b, the court shall also take into account - as referred to in the amendment - the detailed and documented assessments of social services. Basically, I propose to amend this amendment in the sense of adding, before the words "hold account" to the word "also" and, after the word "evaluations" to the words "deep and documented." I believe that the same is true and the text adopted in the Commission is likely to be improved. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Palma proposed a rewording of the amendment. I therefore ask the rapporteur, Mrs Filippin, to give her opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u81	I would like to stress that, in fact, everything that is written in this amendment, or even what has just been said by Senator Palma, is already provided for in the norm. There is already provision - for example - for the protected listening of the child. It is already foreseen that evidence should be acquired. So, what is the purpose of constantly stressing the actions to be taken by the courts of the courts of minors, which are already provided for in the provision? I repeat that I consider this to be a pleonastic one. From a technical point of view, therefore, my opinion remains negative.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u82	In summary, Amendment No 1,118, which was withdrawn by Senator Malan, was taken over by Senator Falanga and the rapporteur also confirmed the opposite opinion on its change to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u85	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, following the last speeches carefully, it seems to me that President Palma's speech has made it possible to have further clarification. I am surprised at the rapporteur's position, because, as was not the case yesterday, the reference to the Constitution, which is indeed normal, is not yet a further specification. I can therefore anticipate that we will vote in favour of this amendment, because we believe it is important to have a further specification in such a sensitive matter, which concerns minors - particularly with the criticalities allowed in relation to assessments that are not always lucid by social services or by some operators - in order to bring back together the material of inquiry throughout the choice stage by the judiciary. We are therefore in favour of and hoped for a further step forward from the rapporteur, as well as in a word of support from the Government, which I do not think should fear any further specification in this area.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u88	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, the rapporteur has explained well that these precautions are already in place in the law to ensure that the judge's assessment is well documented and has all the elements of assessment in support. However, Senator Falanga proposed that you turn this amendment into an agenda. Convinced that this possibility is not contrary to the provisions of the law, I ask the rapporteur to accept this request, in order to meet the demands put forward by Senator Falanga.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u91	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, once the agenda has been adopted on this subject, what is the point of taking into account? In saying that the reports of social services must be thorough and documented, there is something serious: those of you who have experience in the field will know that, sometimes, they are generic and undocumented, or known by the parties. So you want to turn the amendment into an agenda? It doesn't take long. We are making a law that does not change anything, but only gives indications that were already clear to serious judges who applied the law on adoption. Why, then, should we not include in the rule that such reports are in-depth and documented? We need to have an evaluation that is extensible and can be recognized and by the parties and the judge. Otherwise, we are going to vote on a rule simply to give clarity, through interpretation directives which could already have been formulated by the judge. If, therefore, there is a part that leaves some doubt, Mr President, turning the amendment into a agenda is okay, but how does the judge, many times, have an indication from an agenda? I would again ask the rapporteur to consider, together with the Government, the possibility of including those two words in the text of the article. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the rapporteur to comment on the possible agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u92	I repeat what I said just now. I believe that what has been written in Amendment No 1,118 is pleonastic, because it is already included in the text of the law. If, however, this serves to reassure Senators Malan, Caliendo and Falanga in any way as to the need to insist that these measures be adequately motivated by the judges, of course with the greatest attention from the social services, to whom my greatest respect goes. [[Applause from Senator Mattesini]] If this is the case and if they accept the transformation into an agenda, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u94	You have the floor, Senator Falanga, but the proposal you made just now has been accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u95	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we need to make some order. At first, the idea was to turn into an agenda amendment 1,118 signed by Senator Malan, which he withdrew and which I did. Senator Palma then spoke, suggesting a rewording of the amendment. Therefore, after the possible agenda phase, on which the rapporteur, Mrs Filippin, has just declared her accession, remains the problem of the rewording of the amendment suggested by Senator Palma. The rapporteur spoke against, so I appeal to the Secretary-General. Furthermore, since you have not yet expressed your opinion on the new wording suggested by Senator Palma, I would like to draw the Government's attention to one point. [[Brusio.]] Colleagues, please pay attention, because we are talking about children.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u96	Senator Falanga, the terms of the matter are quite clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u97	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Let me say, Mr President. Have you ever seen a social service report about a child's living conditions? Have you ever seen her? I have seen so many in the exercise of my profession and I can tell you that, in the generality of cases, they were superficial relationships, dictated by the suggestion of a home visit and nothing more. And I remember that, on the basis of a report so written and carried out, the judge takes the child and takes him from one place to another or transfers him to another. To ask for this report to be documented and there is an accompanying test, as Senator Palma suggested, means to stimulate social services to work in the true sense of the word and not to walk through the streets of the cities where they work, between one house and another. [[Comments from the PD Group. Applause from Senator Taverna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u98	Senator Falanga, you expressed your opinion. Get it done. It is clear, however, what you said. We need to figure out how to decide.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u99	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). I believe that only those who have read a report from social services are entitled to express vocal expressions of protest. The others are silent. [[Comments from the PD Group. Applause from Senators Taverna and Puglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u102	MATTESINI (PD). Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur that everything that is asked to be included in the text is already a rule of law, starting with the question of the protection of the child. I therefore believe that an agenda is more than enough, provided that this cannot and should not be an unwise and unjustified attack on social services, which are already doing a worthwhile job today, which must certainly be improved. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Mussini.]] It is not possible, just as it cannot result from this an attack on the very important work of the court of minors. I believe that the agenda can be voted - if my Group believes so - but it absolutely must not be an element in order to make such a wrong attack on our social services, which must, if anything, be supported by Parliament so that they can be further strengthened. [[Applause from the PD Group]] FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). For them to work. Not an unconditional defense!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u105	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am sorry, but I really believe that we are dealing with a problem that does not exist. The rapporteur, Mrs Filippin, says that what was originally envisaged in Senator Malan's amendment, which is now done by Senator Falanga, is pleonastic because it basically already belongs to the system. I would like to point out to the rapporteur, Mrs Filippin, that if this is true, quod abundat non vivatat. Therefore, I do not believe that the inclusion of the word "also" after the words "holds account" is so disastrous for the purpose of the norm. On the contrary, to say "take into account" also means that the judge's assessment will have to be based on both the material acquired in the context of the voluntary procedure and (also) on the evaluations of social services. After that, I do not know how the speech came out, but I believe that in this amendment there is no negative assessment of the work of social services. Each of us, for one verse or another, works or has worked with social services, is in the institutions and knows perfectly well how strict their attitude and work is. It is simply said that the evaluations of social services must be documented, as any advice submitted to the judge must be documented; otherwise an incredible concept would be established, namely that the judge is linked to an assessment without the documentation that allows him to make the assessment itself. I would like to emphasise that we are basically going along with each other. We are moving towards the adoption of a measure unanimously and, therefore, I wonder whether it is really worth tightening up on a formal question relating to the text of the case, when this formal question does not at all affect the meaning of the case. I do not believe that adding "also" after the words "keep account" or adding "documented" after the term "evaluations" is an attack on the majesty or a twist of the norm. It is something that some senators are asking for, a political force willing to vote in favour of this measure. Moreover, I believe that we can acknowledge that we have worked in the Commission without any foreclosure. I therefore do not see why this stiffening should somehow prevent unanimous approval. I would therefore ask the rapporteur to reflect on the expression of an opinion on the Malan amendment now Falanga, as I have just reworded by including the words "also" after the words "keep account" and "documented" after the word "evaluations". PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, the terms of the matter are clear. I would ask the rapporteur, if she wishes, to give her final opinion, after having made a reflection following the further appeal made to her.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u106	Mr President, I repeat that it is a pleonastic one. But if these useless "also" - forgive me - and "documentate" serve, I accept the rewording. [[Applause from Senator Lo Giudice]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u107	I invite the government representative to comment on the rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u108	The Government takes note of the rapporteur's remarks and considers that the rule contained in the basic text is clear in any case. In fact, the judge must take into account all the elements that emerge and, therefore, will have to assess in depth what emerges from the file and then take the decision. The judge must take this into account, but he may or may not deviate from it, because his autonomy remains. Therefore, he will assess in concrete terms how they have worked and on the basis of the evidence provided to him. However, the Government's opinion on the text of the reworded amendment, to which the words "also" and "documented" have been added, is in line with that of the rapporteur, i.e. in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u109	I apologise to Senator Marin, who I have seen mentioned wanting to speak, but many of his colleagues have already spoken and the rules, unfortunately, have to be applied. I would remind you that there has been a rewording of amendment 1,118, which was tabled by Senator Malan and then done just by Senator Falanga. Senator Palma has put forward a proposal for reformulation, on which the rapporteur and the government have expressed a favourable opinion. Amendment 1,118 (text 2) refers to the following: In paragraph 1, in paragraph 5-c, the following is inserted after the word "account": "also" and, after the word "evaluations" insert the following: "in-depth and documented" [[Brusio.]] The rapporteur, in fact, gave a favourable opinion on the introduction of the word "documented" rather than the word "deep". At this point, the Presidency, taking note of the rapporteur's assessment, confirms that after the word "evaluations" the word "documentate" is added. This is true for our actions and precisely, because we are voting on laws. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.118 (text 2), tabled by Senator Malan, withdrawn by the presenter and subsequently made by Senator Falanga. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u112	Mr ASTORRE (PD). Mr President, I miss the vote card. I would point out that my vote is in favour, so that it remains in the record.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u113	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,119, tabled by Senator Casaletto and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 1 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u114	Mr President, I would like to quickly explain amendment 2.100, because I believe that previous speeches have already made certain points clear. I am at the first parliamentary experience and, therefore, I feel the burden every time I press a button for the vote and, especially in this case, when we talk about minors. In fact, I believe that the fundamental element that must distinguish a good law is always the protection of the child, who is a subject that is in a difficult phase of his life and must, therefore, be particularly respected. Why should this amendment be tabled? I believe that, at a time when there is a civil procedure in the matter of parental responsibility, because of things, precisely because of the many considerations carried out previously, the affidator should be heard and - as I wrote in the amendment - the possible positionary family should be heard. Why? The court of minors, especially in an urgent way, does not always entrust the child to social services, which, in turn, place him in a family. 11:36 a.m., followed by BERTACCO. At the formal level, the trustee, in that case, is only social service. So, since among the principles of the bill there is also respect for the lasting affective relationship that has come to be created between the minor and the foster family, I believe that this clarification, but above all give the possibility to the affidator and the possible positionary family to deposit written notes, is particularly important, and not so much for the protagonism of the foster family, but for respect for the minor, who I believe should be at the center of our attention. I therefore ask the rapporteur to accept Amendment 2,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u115	Mr President, I have tabled amendment 2.0.100 which proposes Article 3 of the original draft law because, with regard to custody, there is a need to recover strong action from the point of view of cultural promotion. There is also a need to network with the associations of families that, in the article, are recognized as: non-profit institutions, which already carry out a very important action in all the territories in support of the foster families in terms of accompaniment to the path of the only foster, but also of support in case of difficulties. It must also be borne in mind that the children who are being entrusted today are people who carry on a much more complicated journey than in previous years. There is also a need for cultural action to be carried out alongside local authorities, so that the attention on this issue is not reduced, which unfortunately, according to statistics, is falling sharply, while the children in the communities are on the increase. I think that this article can further strengthen the important alliance between associations, local authorities and foster families from the point of view not only of support but also of cultural promotion, so that many children leave the communities in which they are left today, to find the warmth of a family in a path of further strengthening their growth.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u116	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u117	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u118	With regard to amendment 2.100, I propose a rewording, i.e. the replacement of the word "heard" by the word "convoced." As those who were in the Justice Commission will remember, we have been discussing this very subject a long time and we have foreseen the expression 'convoked' rather than 'heard' in order not to allow for dilated manoeuvres. If the presenter accepts the amendment, and therefore the replacement of the word "heared" by the word "convoked" then the amendment becomes the following: "the affidator and the possible settler's family must be summoned, under penalty of nullity," my opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u119	Senator Bertacco, do you accept the rewording proposed by the rapporteur? BERTACCO (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u122	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, has the rapporteur proposed leaving the word 'convoked' alone? Allow me. It's not enough. It should be: "convoked to be heard." PRESIDENT. - The debate is The rapporteur's proposal was clear and also reasoned.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u123	Madam President, I would just like to ask you for a minute to explain. "Convoked" means that the competent bodies must send an official convocation to the families that are located or entrusted. On the other hand, if we set up a foster family who wanted - for example - to obstruct the resolution of the matter, it would be enough never to appear. We have foreseen that they should be summoned but not necessarily heard, because this last possibility is put back to the discretion of the foster family. For this same reason, I am opposed to Amendment 2.101, because in this case too the expression "sentitati" is used and not "convoked" is used.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u124	Before I give an opinion on the additional amendments, Senator Filippin, I would point out that there is a conditional opinion from the Budget Commission on Amendment 2.0.100, which provides for the following period to be added at the end of the provision: The implementation of this subparagraph shall not result in any new or increased burden on public finances. Senator Mattesini, do you accept the reformulation proposed by the Budget Commission? MATTESINI (PD). Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u125	My opinion on Amendment 2.0.100 (text 2) is an invitation to withdraw. The text of the bill n. 1209, in fact, is a "surgical" text, which concerns the protection of the emotional continuity of children in foster care. To include other issues, such as the relationship between state authority, public administration, courts and family associations, does not seem appropriate to me. I recognise the importance of the role these family associations play; it is valuable and very useful, but, in this text and with this surgical purpose, I do not think it necessary to include this norm. That is why I make an invitation to withdraw. As far as Amendment 2.0.101 is concerned, I have already explained in my reply the reasons why the amendments to Article 6 of Law 184 of 1983, in my view, must be contained in an organic revision of the law. Such an extemporaneous reform - I am sorry - such as raising the age of adopters to fifty years, on which we can secularly discuss, cannot be included in this text. I therefore object to Amendment 2.0.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u126	Senator Mattesini, do you accept the invitation to withdraw amendment 2.0.100 (text 2)?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u127	I would ask the rapporteur and the government to be able to turn this amendment into an agenda, also in view of the fact that in the other branch of Parliament we are approving a reform on the third sector which, by chance, gives the associations an important role.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u128	Senator Filippin, are you in favour of transforming Amendment 2.0.100 (text 2) into an agenda? FILIPPIN, rapporteur. Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u129	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion and I am in favour of the G2.0.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u130	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,100 (text 2). GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bertacco and other senators, entirely replacing the article. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u133	WOMAN (M5S). Madam President, I would like to point out that one of the last votes is more. Senator Falanga would do well not to vote for the person next to him, who is absent. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from Senator Falanga.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u134	Everyone vows for themselves. Amendment 2.101 is therefore excluded. Following the adoption of amendment 2,100 (text 2), Article 2 will therefore not be put to the vote. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2.0.100 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.0.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u137	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I should like to make a brief comment. Every time we have to discuss public finance, debt containment and the liberalisation of economic activity, they remind us that we are a Western country. We are a Western country, so evolved, and we are within a European and international framework where the subject of adoption - I say this in general - has as its centre the child, the minor. We tend to be more bureaucratic when it comes to civil rights, to be a little too bound up with inherited patterns, cultures, not only religious but behavioral, and traditions that have little to do with the modernity that is advancing. It should also be considered the life expectancy which, as we were taught when they did pension reform (or rather those 7 or 8 pension reforms, some of which devastating), has increased. I withdraw amendment 2.0.101, calling for it to be transformed into an agenda that commits the Government to open the debate so that there is a change. I therefore accept the rapporteur's invitation and conclude by saying that we must think of too many safeguards, as a parent. By now the children have grown up, but when we teach to ride a bike to our son, we are there to bite him because he runs more and tries; instead, when we do it towards the son of a friend, who perhaps entrusted him to take a walk in the public gardens, we keep him the handlebar and so he does not learn to ride a bike. We should pay attention to the whole national childhood, supporting the right of children to be all equal even in affections, especially to be equal to the luckiest ones when we deal with issues that concern them, because adoption almost never happens because of a natural fact, but because of an accident that represents suffering. Especially with regard to these children we must be more attentive than we are to our children and the luckiest ones who have a serene family to live in. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u138	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to make their views known on the agenda. FILIPPIN, rapporteur. Madam President, my opinion is in favour of acceptance. FERRI, State Secretary for Justice. The government accepts the agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2.0.101 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u139	Madam President, I would like to explain amendment 3.2, which calls for the deletion of paragraph 1-bis, introduced in Article 3 of this text, which refers to the extension of the period of custody. As many Members have already pointed out in relation to the previous article, this is misleading because it seems to support something that should be an extreme ratio. The foster care is a specific institution that by law is designed to last a maximum of two years. The problem is that today the trust actually lasts too long, because our system obviously does not work well and this problem is also pointed out by the associations operating in the sector, such as the National Table I entrust. The fact that we have a problem with foster care cannot be a justification to endorse a practice that should be an extreme ratio. The reference to the prolonged period of custody is a kind of contradiction in terms, so I ask you to delete the wording that is and remains misleading for me. Many considerations have been made in this Assembly, which are also acceptable in this respect, especially with regard to the need to decline effective support for families of origin; a problem evident in a country such as ours where family policies are watering, unfortunately, on all sides. At this point, and for this reason, I demand an act of direction from the House on these issues and I hope that there will be a favourable determination on my amendment by the Government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remainder of the amendment is set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u140	The opinion on both amendments is opposed. It is simply a technical matter. There was a double call. In Article 25 of the Law of 4 May 1983, No 184 was inserted the reference to the assumption of custody (i.e. of foster families that can become adoptive), as well as within the discipline of custody was emphasized the reference to the norm on adoption, to reaffirm that foster families can become adoptive. It is only a technical point of reference, which we have discussed extensively in the Justice Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u141	I give my assent to the rapporteur. We also insist on the withdrawal of Amendment 3.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u142	Senator Di Biagio, do you insist on voting on Amendment 3.2?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u143	Madam President, I agree to withdraw the amendment and turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u144	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G3.2 will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u145	I ask Senator Giovanardi if he insists on the vote on Amendment 3,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u146	Madam President, I also withdraw my amendment 3,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u147	We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u148	We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u149	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u150	Madam President, Article 4 also refers again to the definition of a prolonged period of custody. Senator Di Biagio had already proposed to delete it in Article 3. We are now asking for it to be deleted in Article 4, because it is absolutely a point to be reviewed. Our system presents this gap and cannot be underestimated. I therefore call for the vote in favour of Amendment No 4,100, which seeks to delete the article.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u151	Madam President, I am announcing the withdrawal of amendment 4.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u152	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u153	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u154	I call on the authors to withdraw Amendments Nos 4,100, 4,101 and 4.4, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u155	I am in agreement with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u158	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I would ask the rapporteur to give reasons in this case too, as she has always done, for the call for withdrawal before I decide to withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u161	FILIPPIN, rapporteur. Madam President, I am in a strange situation. When I express the reasons for the opinions, they tell me not to do so because I waste time. When I do not express my reasons, I am told otherwise. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's the non-presenters who tell her she's wasting time. The authors of the amendments would like to know the reasons for the opinions. FILIPPIN, rapporteur. The reason for the call for the withdrawal of amendment 4101 is to confirm the text of the bill, which is exactly the same text presented by the first signatory of the bill, Senator Puglisi. Article 4 of the original text solves a legal problem, in the sense that it recognizes that the lasting affective bond that is established within a family can also arise in the course of prolonged custody. Consequently, this justifies the special adoption under Article 44 of Law No 184 of 1983. There are already courts that have such adoption on the basis of this explanatory statement. We simply give legal form to a case that our system has already introduced.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u162	Senator Giovanardi, will you withdraw Amendment 4101? GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). I shall withdraw it, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Falanga, will you withdraw Amendment 4.4? FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). I shall withdraw it, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Blondo?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u163	I withdraw the amendment, but I turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u164	It is a deleterious amendment and therefore it is difficult to turn it into an agenda: it should deposit the text and have it read to the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u165	BLUNDO (M5S). We can turn this into an agenda that calls for attention to be paid to the aspect of foster care and the extended period of foster care, or I would ask for the amendment to be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then let's proceed to the vote, Senator Blundo. BLUNDO (M5S). Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u166	Since Amendments 4.2, 4.101 and 4.4 have been withdrawn and since no amendments have been tabled on Article 4 other than the deleterious Amendment 4,100, tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators, we shall proceed to the vote on the retention of the Rule. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We put to the vote the retention of the article: those who oppose the amendment tabled by Senator Blundo will vote in favour of the article. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the maintenance of Article 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Puglisi's comments.]] Don't worry, Senator Puglisi. I have put to the vote the maintenance of Article 4 and not the deletion of the amendment. I've explained it several times. So the Senate's approval keeps Article 4 alive. Calm down and cast! [[Applause from the PD Group. Protests from the M5S Group.]] I would like to explain once again: since only the deleterious amendment 4, tabled by Senator Blundo, who has maintained her amendment, has remained in place, we shall vote for the continuation of the article and not for its deletion. That is what the Rules of Procedure say. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I explained this before the vote and therefore the terms were clear. [[Applause from the PD Group. Protests of SenatorsBlund and Donno.]] I am sorry Senator Blundo: it is the application of what is laid down in the Rules of Procedure, when there is only one deleterious amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u167	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u169	BLUNDO (M5S). We have just voted on the amendment, which I have asked to put to the vote. [[Protests from the PD Group]] Mr Fornaro (PD). It's not like that! BLUNDO (M5S). In fact, the vote on the amendment that I tabled was requested, namely Amendment 4,100. I would like to ask for the record of this sitting, which is correct with what has been recorded, otherwise you will give me the new Rules of Procedure which the PD has written. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia]] And he's been writing it for a long time! We put the amendment to the vote at my personal request, which I did not withdraw. [[Protests from the PD Group]] CARDINALI (PD). Listen!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u170	Senator Blundo, I confirm to you what I made clear before the vote, namely that since all the other amendments were withdrawn, only his deleterious amendment remained alive. Therefore, pursuant to Rule 102 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, which says: When a single deleterious amendment of an entire article was tabled, the text was put to the vote and the text was put to the vote and the text was adopted, and therefore its deleterious amendment was rejected. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Those are the terms. I explained it earlier. It may not have been well understood, but these are the terms. The debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u171	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u173	GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business. I would like to make a correction: in the previous vote we voted in favour, while I would like it to appear in the minutes that the vote of the 5 Star Movement Group was against.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u174	We shall record, I do not think this will change the result of the vote. Moreover, it was well made clear by the Presidency which procedure was being applied. I'm sorry. Clearly, the matter has not been sufficiently grasped. We now come to the examination of Amendments Nos 100 and 101, which are described and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u175	Madam President, ecumenically, I propose a rewording that takes account of both amendments, because it is true of what they have said, namely that the title may not be perfectly consistent with the subject contained in this draft law. I therefore propose the following rewording of the title: "Amendments to Law No 184, 4 May 1983 on the right to continuity of affection for children and girls in foster care."
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u176	I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u177	Senators Falanga and Puglisi, do you accept the reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u178	President, the title of a law must be clear and punctual. The title I proposed to amend with amendment Tit.101 reads: Amendments to Law No 184, 4 May 1983 on the adoption of children by foster families. Since we are not intervening on the subject of adoptions, but on custody I simply asked that the provision be titled by the diction: Amendments to Law No 184, 4 May 1983 on the custody of minors. The rapporteur proposes this ecumenical solution, which is vague. I can also agree, and I also note that the rapporteur, with intellectual honesty, admitted that the original title was technically wrong. I do not understand this new title that "mistakes" my amendment with the amendment of Senator Puglisi, but if it serves to recover the rather striking error made by the authors of this text, I can accept this reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u179	I welcome the new wording proposed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u180	Amendments Tit.100 and Tit.101 are therefore withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u181	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u183	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I have a concern which I must express to the House. We have said, and we all agree, that foster care is something totally different from adoption. Then there are particular and specific cases of exception, which this law deals with, in which the foster care can become adoption. A big problem remains. There was some dialectical confrontation yesterday about the other subjects of this affair, which are the parents. The father and mother of these children in ordinary foster care, finished the phase of supplementing the foster family that generously took on the deficiencies and difficulties of the original family, should have their children back. There are those who have said that it should not always be so because sometimes the need for the state and services must prevail in the best interests of the child. What is meant by the emotional continuity of children and girls? What must prevail the relationship that these children have with the two confidants or must the continuity of affection prevail with the father and the mother who, it is hoped, continue even during the period of the foster care? Therefore, if this becomes the law on the right to affective continuity, the distinction that is in premise of a fundamental difference between foster and adoption is likely to cloud, becoming something rather misunderstanding. In writing the text of the law and in the first part of the revision proposed by the rapporteur, we had limited ourselves to highlighting this aspect, while today we set out a principle, the right to emotional continuity, which must be truly deepened, discussed and assessed in the relationship between the two requirements. On such a title I have great perplexity, because we open the door to something unknown.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u184	We take note of that. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 700. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 700 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u185	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u186	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u187	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Madam President, as always, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has a certain freedom of vote and conscience, even on a subject such as this, which is particularly sensitive, because it concerns children and foster families. Foster families that have given availability and have the obligation, the duty, the privilege of being entrusted with children, children who, at a particular moment of their family life, must be removed from the natural family and who, therefore - play hard and if God wants - meet other people who think of them and take care of them. From this point of view, however, it is necessary to adopt the proposal: Mr Falanga has done well so far, in his speeches and in the amendments which have had little luck, to talk about a period of no more than two years of foster care, otherwise there is the possibility that the foster family will consider the child to be its own child. One thing is that the child knows, however, that he must return to his natural family, another thing is that he knows that that family that took him into custody must be his family until the end of his life. These are two very different things, Madam President, to the point that I am able to count myself among the supporters of the idea that a family cannot make it a judge: I am sorry for those who do not think like me, but the judge has to do something else, certainly not a family; much less they can do social workers or psychologists most of the time inadequate for the problem; and the loser is always the minor. Ladies and gentlemen, when you take a child away from a natural family, it has always failed, that is, failure is certain. When, for a period of time that we have established in a couple of years and that I consider appropriate, a child is given to a foster family, who think of him, helping him to overcome the difficulties of the original one, one can only agree, because what is being done is valuable. The same applies to adoption, when a family becomes willing to adopt a child, making it equal to a natural child. You disagree when you tear the child away from the natural family when there are no conditions, when a judge has other things to do than think about the child's good, and so he is in fact responsible for certain attitudes. You see, when a minor is in an educational college, far from the family, it is not that he has a new mother or a new father: he always has the natural family of departure as a reference point, even if he stays for months, if not sometimes for years, far from that family. What is different is when the child is in an institution and no longer has the possibility to have connections with the natural family or to return to it, and then in fact there is a need to declare its adoption and to identify a new family that meets the requirements of Article 6. I wanted to take this tour of words to say that, at the same time as we go to retouch Law 184 of 4 May 1983 on the adoption of minors by foster families, trying to mediate, with an amendment, also on the title given to the law, obviously we declare and we are aware that society cannot solve some problems present in this field. We had to have, as reformists - but we are little more courageous in this House - and we had to know that perhaps it was better to remove this task from the courts, because the fact that, as Senator Falanga said, there are foster families that remain so for 16 years means that a child has been taken away from the natural family, that still exists, and it has been kept away from 16 years because there are idlers called judges, or they are called psychologists or social workers who have cared about that child and left him at the mercy of the trusts without if and without but, that should not have lasted so long. In fact, if the legislator states that custody cannot last more than two years, how can someone afford to fail what the legislator has established? That is why, Madam President, with these considerations, I personally declare my conscious vote against. Obviously, there is freedom of conscience in the Group of Great Autonomies and Freedoms, in which there are also different sensitivities. I represent that reformist, socialist, craxian, that which today finally rejoices for a judgment of the Supreme Court that did not even have to be there, because that trial (you understood what I am referring to) did not even have to start; and in a civil country who had started it would have been sent to the stove to be a housewife.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u188	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u189	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u190	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, with the examination of this draft law No 1209, we are dealing with a subject which I would venture to describe as extremely sensitive. It has also been seen in the course of the debate, but especially in the course of the explanation of the amendments and in the vote on them, how the rule is particularly dedicated. We are faced with institutions such as custody and adoption, which have already been stigmatized and crystallized in the rules belonging to our system, which are wanted and created with particular regard to the interest of the child. And it is always on this figure that we must focus our commitment and our attention. Remember that basically the child, the minor needs the family. On this subject you can certainly open great philosophical discussions: is the family the natural one or is that entity that welcomes you, makes you grow and cures you? The priority of the return of the child to the family of origin should be considered absolute, because one basically tries to favour the natural family, the original family, to which the child is linked not only by affective but also genetic constraints; I think of the fact that I succeed, for example, when growing up, in identifying some of his own characteristics in the father or mother. Obviously there are dramatic situations that see the need - and if we speak of necessity we refer to really difficult situations - in which the child must be removed from his family. It is always hoped that the period of removal of the child from the family will be as short as possible; it is obviously hoped that the return to the family of origin will take place in better conditions so that the family itself is able to support, raise and cure the child. The problem touched on by the draft law under consideration is the institution of the foster care, its nature, its duration and the effects of the custody period. Certainly for minors, for these small people who are removed from their homes and who go to live with the foster family, there are necessarily deep emotional ties, especially for those who come out of a situation of difficulty such as that of the family of origin. The structure of the foster care institution necessarily arises as a temporary solution, and so it should be. But how can we think of the difference between a provisional solution and a more or less provisional one? How long can it be considered appropriate? Senator Divina, who preceded me in the illustration of the amendments, recalled a couple of judgments in this regard, but unfortunately there are a lot of them. When it comes to a seven-year period of removal for a child, at the end of which the magistrate decides for the return of the child to the family of origin, it is difficult to think that seven years are a temporary solution, and it is equally difficult to think that in this period - but it may be two, three years, or a few months - relationships have not been created. One wonders - and that is why the bill touches on this matter - what value to give to the relationship that is born in the period of custody. However, these are extremely critical situations, especially when we think that the adoption institution should be an extreme ratio. In fact, as we also recalled yesterday when talking about kafala and annexes, adoption involves the complete or almost detachment of the minor from the family of origin. With the new family the minor comes to establish true and proper relationships of legitimate sonship and comes to be inserted to all effects, legal and affective, within that family. What we are asking ourselves, however, is whether this standard, as structured, can actually achieve the objectives it had foreshadowed. In the course of the debate in the Commission, there have been a number of questions - I am referring to individual Members - about the difficulty and the possibility of distinguishing custody institutions from those of adoption. We believe that it is particularly important to keep the institutions separate, also in order to avoid that the foster family, the localized family, can then boast of the claims, or have expectations that, in the end, can also be disillusioned and that may have repercussions on the same minor. Above all, it must be avoided that elusive mechanisms of custody law are found. In our view, these concerns also took place during the vote on the amendments. As has been seen, there has been a very broad debate and amendments have been accepted - many amendments - which also provide for the full replacement of certain parts of the rule. In the same way, agendas have been accepted and many amendments have been turned into agendas, among other things on issues that are certainly not simple. Our concern about the text therefore remains the following. Amendments have been adopted by this House and agendas have been accepted which - I repeat - also affect matters relating, for example, to the age of the adoptor, or to the evaluation of evidence in the parts of the adoption procedure. We are talking about fundamental issues and, therefore, we fear that this text is not exhaustive and - even - that it may raise doubts even when it is applied, for example, as we have seen, with reference - it seems trivial - to the title. We come here to ask for the rewording of amendments, then voted and accepted, also relating to the title. The title is important, because the title of a rule already gives an indication to the interpreter on what is the objective he aims to achieve. The question we ask ourselves is: does this rule affect custody law or is it a rule that can affect adoption law? There are doubts about this, also raised by the Divine Senator, who carried out the intervention before me. Do we create expectations and possibilities for foster families to boast of rights or have expectations? We have focused on these questions. Although we believe that some parts of this bill can be well-shared (see, for example, the rule that provides for the affidavit to be summoned, under penalty of nullity, in order - it is hoped - to be heard), due to these great points of question the Group of the North League anticipates the vote of abstention from now on. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u191	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u192	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u193	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I know that there have already been informal contacts and I would like to ask, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, to postpone the beginning of today's afternoon sitting at 5.30 p.m. on matters related to a political commitment of our Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u194	We take note of that. If no comments are made, this remains the case. For the sake of clarity on our work, it is clear that, since many explanations of vote remain to be taken and the sitting is due to end at 13:00, the final vote on draft law No 1209 will take place in the afternoon sitting, starting with the resumption of work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u195	I greet the students of the Technical Institute for Geometries Bruno Tallini in Formia, in the province of Latina, who are following the work of the Senate. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u196	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u198	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Madam President, first of all I would like to welcome the work that the Senate has done in the last two weeks. It is a demonstration of the strength that the Constitution has wanted to give to the parliamentary debate on important issues and it is also a demonstration that a proper balance between the working time in the Commissions and the working time and the debate in this House leads us to approve the measures in a rather fast and also effective way. In these two years of my stay in the Senate I have had the opportunity to verify ‐ I think it is everyone's experience and I would like it to be strongly communicated also outside ‐ that the validity of the discussion within the Commissions is all the stronger the more there is the possibility to speak and to truly exchange opinions and then arrive, despite the different sensitivities, at formulations that also enjoy the benefits of a very large majority approval, almost unanimously. This is also proof, on the other hand, that when this does not happen, it means that there are elements that dangerously intervene in what should be our natural behavior that is provided for in the Constitution. One example is the so-called anti-corruption bill, which has been scheduled for two years in the Justice Commission, as these draft laws have also been scheduled, but it does not go ahead and is constantly subject to a series of stops, accelerations, transformations, displacements, obstructionism and so on. All instruments which are more than legitimate but which at some point should put us in the face of the need to resolve this issue. There are obstructive instruments that have been managed in this House in the interests of a very rapid achievement of the final vote, so perhaps we could better balance the work between the House and the Commission. It is very curious, in fact, that a bill that is just as important for our entire society, lies so badly reduced within the Commission Justice, although it has taken us a long time already. By entering into the substance of this measure, it affects one of the most important aspects of our activity of these weeks, that is, the issue of adoption or rather, the issue of foster care. The spirit of the law, which has never been lost in the course of the debate in the Commission, is that we must always bear in mind that we must work for the protection of minors. In the light of this, the debate has opened which has also been put forward in this House and in the explanations of vote which preceded me and which makes some people stand up for an abstention position, as we have seen, because of the delicacy of the problem of keeping adoption well separate from custody. A theme that has been repeated several times, because it is rather important. This bill certainly has the advantage of guaranteeing to the families who have had children in entrust the preservation of the affective relationship that has been created and, where the conditions for the child can be adopted, it provides for the possibility, for these families, to guarantee the child an emotional continuity within the family that could become foster. It is important to understand, however, that this provision must in no way be a preferential lane for foster families to become adoptive families, nor must it be an instrument to choose the short way in decisions concerning children. The child's interest, in fact, is primarily to remain in his natural family: the children want their mother and their father. This is a truth that must be respected and that must remain sacred, until the moment in which for these children the presence of their father and their natural mother does not become a presence that harms the realization of their childhood and the construction of their being women and men. We shall vote in favour of this bill. But my concern today, which was also expressed in the content of that agenda with which we opened the votes this morning, is that the correct distinction and proper management of the trust on the one hand and adoption on the other are closely linked to two aspects and two factors. The first is the path behind adoption and foster care, which calls into question social services, but also justice. The unpleasant confrontation that we had a moment ago between Senator Falanga and Senator Mattesini actually responds to a real problem: on the one hand there is the view of the courts, while on the other there is the view of everything that goes around and that is outside the courts, that is, social assistance. A truth that we have heard echo in these classrooms over and over again tells us that the administration of justice is in difficulty. Unfortunately, my fear - I do not think it is very unfounded - is that this difficulty is first of all translated into an inability to manage the files concerning the rights of the weakest, in this case the rights of children. I may be wrong, but I don't know that the head of the juvenile justice department of the Ministry of Justice has been appointed yet. This is a bad signal, because it gives strength to precisely what is my fear, that in the end those who pay more in an administration that does not work are those who have less voice to make themselves heard. The same problem also applies to social services. Senator Falanga's speech is not fair when he says that social services are occupied by people who do not work: this is not fair. However, it is also fair to say that today the emptying of social services means that those who work on this problem, which is increasingly strong, are less and less and are increasingly subject to the so-called optimization of services and rationalization of expenditure. This means that they no longer have time; it may also be true that their relationships are not accurate, but perhaps this in part also depends on the fact that these relationships are made by subjects who have to run from one side to the other and who have the need to follow many cases, today increasingly complex. The risk that there is no clarity in the distinction between what is adopted and what is entrusted may also lie in the fact that giving foster families of children in adoption can become a short way. Let's face it: this could be an outcome. At this point it is no longer just a problem for the legislator, but a problem for the Commission and more generally for everyone: we will have to ensure that this does not happen in any way. Today the economic discomfort and the conditions of precariousness concern a large number of families, especially those families that were part of that middle class that could not be said to be powerful or wealthy, but that had the serenity to be able to guarantee, perhaps with sacrifices and with an accurate selection of expenses, a normal life for his children. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator Mussini. MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). These families are more and more and the condition of uneasiness leads more and more easily to the condition of marginality. If the foster families have the associations that support them and that have made themselves felt, rightly and correctly, the marginals, which are becoming more and more, are instead a scattered battalion, which has no subjects going to propose amendments or drafts of law. We must take charge of the margins, in every possible and imaginable way. Those who are destined to suffer the most, in fact, are precisely those we are dealing with today, that is, children and children. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group and the Senators Orellana and De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u199	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u201	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, we are at the end of a complex work and, as I have already said in general debate, the goodness of this measure will be seen in its application, because it is difficult to predict what the outcome of the case will be in such a complex reality. I have just heard Mr Mussini's speech, with which I do not always agree, but in this case the list of priorities that he has put in line with the theme of foster care is the one that has always convinced me, that children have the right to have a father and a mother, they have an affective relationship with their father and their mother, and this is physiological. Clearly, the intervention of the State and the services must only be of supplement, possibly temporary and based on the generosity of couples who take charge of this supplement, knowing, however, that the child has a family to which he must return and that therefore there is a fundamental difference, which has been pointed out several times in this House, between the institution of adoption and that of foster care. In reality, however, this is not the case, i.e. it should be the case, and this law is a contribution of clarification in this respect. Not by chance, the various associations involved in cognitive investigation and preparatory work have made a fundamental contribution to the drafting of the law in a certain way, but in the territory the reality is not this, the relationship is not that desired by Senator Mussini because in Italy the children taken away from families are an extraordinarily high number: we speak of tens of thousands of children taken away from families for the most disparate reasons, within a mechanism that colleagues know to be totally authoritarian. This is a remnant of fascism, in the sense that these procedures take place without contradictory, the courts for minors act without the possibility, for those who see themselves taken away from the child, of intervening, of being able to exercise a right of defence or a form of dialogue. We have cases, such as the one I denounced some time ago in this House, of families such as Massa Finalese, whose members only after sixteen years (repeat: sixteen years) have been recognized their right, being completely innocent in relation to the accusations made, with the sentence of Cassazione passed in court. Too bad they have not seen their four children for sixteen years, because they had been taken away at 4 a.m. and given to four foster families. Dad died of a heart attack a year and a half ago, before the last acquittal, then confirmed in cassation. That father and that mother no longer had the opportunity to see, to speak, to speak with their children, not even with the fifth, born in the meantime, who is eleven years old and lives in France exile with his mother, to whom otherwise they would have taken him away. This is the reality with which, in an authoritarian way, the services and courts for minors move. We have said that we will deepen these issues when we look at the whole issue of foster care, the relationship between state, services, courts for minors and families. However, there are associations, such as the Italian Coordination of Child Abuse and Abuse Services (CISMAI), which even theorize the supremacy of the State and social services or which denounce, naturally denied by the courts, numbers on the extraordinarily high abuses for which there have been seasons in which in certain parts of Italy there were discovered dozens and dozens of cases of abuse, which represented instead the perpetuation of a perverse mechanism that fed the public contributions to the ASLs that signaled the abuses, services that were enhanced and that more discovered alleged abuses and more received public contributions, within mechanisms that led us to cases such as that of Rignano Flaminio and to truly grotesque situations that represented the pathology of this type of relationship. This culture and these associations have deeply affected the structures and staff of the services. I agree that the attacks on services relating to self-denial, the spirit of service and the working capacity of persons working within services are totally out of place. Unfortunately, many of these operators have been convinced and prepared in such a way as to see in the family with economic difficulties or low cultural level an environment from which the child must be removed, for an alleged superiority of the foster structures over these family difficulties: perhaps without trying to support that family or help it. Another issue on which we should return is the extraordinarily high, sometimes insane, expenditure on foster care or the facilities to which children are entrusted. If only part of those sums were allocated or allocated to help families in difficulty, such as those who have economic difficulties, we would be able to do aid in the best interests of the child, but avoiding the breakdown of families that, for economic reasons or lack of work or because one of the members of the family has legal mishaps, in addition to the difficulties that already exist, see their children escape. As you know, colleagues, today a family with underage children, if they are evicted from their homes (i.e. when they have a dramatic housing problem), they also see their children taken away. I wonder if this is a just or perverse logic. It's raining in the wet! However, I see some PD colleagues making gestures to express their disagreement. Perhaps they do not know the reality and do not know that, unfortunately, those who are evicted from their homes are being taken away from their children. It seems to me absolutely unfair, because the state should come to the rescue here, helping that family so that children, even in economic difficulties, can be with their parents. But, as I have seen in the other part of this House, there are those who think that the child should not be with the family, because he is poor and has difficulties, and that the State should come to make up for it. I think, instead, that family should be helped directly, leaving the child with dad and mom, even if they have economic difficulties. However, these are all points of reference for the deepening of this matter, which we should grasp. As far as this draft law is concerned, we will vote for its approval, because we believe that the balance achieved is sufficient and that the distinction between the two institutions remained clearly legible. We want better clarification of the cases in which foster care can be transformed, of course bearing in mind that, if foster care turns into adoption, it must follow the rules of adoption. No exceptions can be made, nor can the foster care become an extraordinary and eccentric way through which to overcome the limits that the law places in order to adopt a child. With these reasons, the People's Area Group will vote in favour of this bill. [[Applause from Senators Comrade and Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u202	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u203	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u204	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, the draft law we have debated today amends Law No 184 of 1983 on the adoption of children by foster families. It is in everyone's eyes that, despite the very serious economic crisis we are experiencing, there has been a significant increase in the number of children and adolescents entrusted to families in recent years. Suffice it to say that from the end of the 1990s to 2011, according to the report produced by the previous Bicameral Commission for Childhood and Adolescence, children in foster care have increased from 9.546 to 14.397. This trend has had a greater impact on children aged between six and ten years: these are very significant data. Certainly - no one questions it - family custody represents an opportunity for the child, if he is to live a condition of real discomfort within the family of origin, and it is a solution to be preferred over the placement in community, where the so-called concept of neutral environment negatively affects the path of growth of the child and can create damages, even difficult to repair. Before reaching the heart of the measure under consideration, allow me to make a small digression on the positive consequences that would result from the application of family custody also to unaccompanied foreign minors. On 13 October, during the examination of the decree-law containing urgent provisions for the recognition of international protection, an agenda of mine was adopted, which committed the Government to promoting and encouraging forms of family reception for minors who arrived in our country without parents. It is a drama that every year, in the most complete silence of the media, grows and feeds and creates great difficulties for the municipalities. In 2014 12,000 unaccompanied minors arrived in our country and the condition of 3,100 of them no longer have traces. I expect the Commission to maintain its commitment and work as soon as possible to give these children a chance and a future. I hope that this will indeed be followed up by the measure that we are all waiting for. I realize that asking a government that tends not to respect the words given, maybe it's like asking President Renzi to undergo a self-detoxification program. Returning to the measure under consideration, it is clear that Law No 149 of 2001 has given impetus to the practice of family custody. Many, however, forget that the same law was based on two fundamental assumptions: the centrality of the child and the temporary nature of custody. Especially on this last aspect, the law stipulated that the duration of custody could not be longer than 24 months: the timing within which the child had to be allowed to return to the family of origin. But this assumption, in the light of the facts, statements and evidence, that there are in most of the Regions of Italy, has been largely disregarded. Over the years, in fact, there has been a legal change in the ratio underlying the custody institution, transforming it from a measure with a temporary nature to a long-term decision. This terminology, despite the adoption of some amendments, has remained in the measure that we are going to vote on and remains a problematic aspect, which will have to be addressed and resolved with subsequent interventions. Almost always, in the custody of minors to families, the instrument of extension, provided for by Law No 149 of 2001, has been abused, thus extending custody beyond twenty-four months. In fact, 22 percent of the children were in foster care between twenty-four and forty-eight months, while 26 percent were in foster care for forty-eight months. In many cases it has even reached the end of the eighteenth year of age, allowing the least bonds to develop so strong that, when they are interrupted, it is obvious that they can represent a further destabilising element for its growth. Having said that, I should like to point out from the outset that the 5 Star Movement has made an active contribution to the final drafting of this draft law by presenting amendments both to the Commission and to the House and not only by putting itself in a conflicting and contradictory position. Colleagues, our amendments were aimed at achieving an exclusive objective: to protect minors who for an extended period of time were given in custody without the due attention of judges and magistrates and due attention to the documentation submitted by social workers. That is why we have welcomed this approval of the amendment which inserts an assessment of the documents. We are certainly in favour of putting the court for minors in a position to take into account the significant emotional ties and the stable and lasting relationship that is consolidated between the foster family and the minor at the time when he will have to decide on the state of adoption of the latter. In this regard, it was very positive that I adopted an initial amendment of mine, which was then supported in the Commission by Mr Cappelletti to prevent it being deleted, which I thank, and in which it is envisaged that the trustee should be summoned in all proceedings on parental responsibility relating to the child entrusted. We recognize custody to another family as an aspect that allows the child to continue to grow in a climate of greater tranquility and serenity while waiting for the problems experienced by the family of origin to be overcome. It is also true, as provided for in Law No 149 of 2001, amending Law No 184 of 1983, that this extreme solution should not take place since at-risk households have the right to receive support from the State, the Regions and the local authorities, in order to prevent abandonment and allow the child to be educated within his family. In conclusion, let us welcome the intention to take account of the socio-affective relations created by the child during the period of custody, guaranteeing continuity - for this reason we shall vote in favour - but we ask that appropriate measures be taken as soon as possible to ensure that the child is listened to. We also call for measures to be taken on the role of social workers and on their proven inadequacy in many areas of the country, also because of the many problems they face, the numerous cases that are entrusted and the absolute loneliness. On the other hand, it would be a good thing to have a network speech, a measure involving an online evaluation and not entrusted to the report of a single social worker. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u205	Since the sitting is due to be closed at 1 p.m., I shall refer the continuation of the debate on the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u206	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u207	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u208	Mr Pezzopane (PD). Madam President, 8 March was an important day for all of us, International Women's Day. On 8 March too, however, there was a very serious case of feminicide in my region, in my land. Yes, on March 8, on the day that so many men give mimosa to their women, so many words are spent on women and women and their importance and strength in society and politics are celebrated. Just that day, in the early hours of the morning, a man, with a snare, strangled and killed his cohabitant, and then warned the Forces of Order, after a few hours. It is not a crime of passion and it is also for this reason that I have spoken: whenever it happens that a woman is killed by her partner, by her boyfriend or by her husband, in fact, there is talk of crime of passion, but in these cases there is no passion: instead, there is hatred of the woman, who, as in that circumstance, has to claim something towards his partner. We have discussed feminicide in this House, and we have also proposed and adopted legislative instruments to strengthen penalties, as well as instruments to prevent and inform young generations in particular of the importance not only of respect for women, but above all of the recognition of their autonomy and freedom. I would simply ask this House to reiterate its attention to the phenomenon of feminicide and to you, Madam President, who have always been engaged in this field of battle, to speak to the relevant ministries and the Government to speed up the implementation of all the instruments we have envisaged, including in the Plan against sexual violence. In fact, these can help prevent and assist all women who live in a tragic condition in the family, but unfortunately they do not know how to get out of it alone and often come out of it definitively, after cases like this, of dramatic feminicides. [[Applause from Senator Cucca.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u209	Thank you, Senator: I believe we need a collective commitment because there is a strong initiative of the institutions on these issues.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u210	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u211	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u212	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, it happened, we knew it, we said it and we fought, alas, in a few months, even by ourselves: the first layoffs took place because of the jobs act, because we know very well that Renzi, the left-wing government and the communists wanted to introduce collective dismissal within this measure. Fifty-three collective redundancies for reduction of non-directive personnel: who was it? The Unipol, which always has this direct thread with the Italian left of the PD. Unipol, a healthy company, thought it was the first in the class, by chance. Now, why did Unipol, a company, in good health, make this decision? The answer lies in the technicalism of the norm contained in the provision called jobs act, just to give the impression to the Italians, with this Anglo-Saxon expression, that it was something beautiful and new, while this provision brought us back forty years. Normally, when such redundancies take place, if the company has already planned an incentive to exodus, it gives money to the worker to leave; in this case, instead, using the current rule, the company dismisses directly and knows that it must pay a maximum of compensation. At this point, therefore, I recall those hours when we in the Commission have pushed for an opinion which is not in favour of the legislative decree, so that collective redundancies can be eliminated. Instead, the Renzi government, the leftist government, did not want to listen to Parliament, that is the people, and went on. Now I understand why he had to do Unipol another favor. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-407.ana.u213	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 5.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.04 a.m.
