ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1880, 746, 760, 1570, 1795, 1815, 1823, 1841 and 1855. The rapporteur, Senator Ranucci, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u9	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law in question is an incisive step towards reforming the governance structure of the RAI with the dual objective of making it more efficient and more autonomous from political conditioning in order to enhance its social function as a public service. The role of the Parliamentary Commission for the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services, set up to ensure, through parliamentary control, the principle of pluralism of information, is traced back to this original mission. [[Brusio]] Mr President, I'm sorry, but I can't even speak with this buzz.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u10	Colleagues, this is such an argument invoked, so let's hope it's heard.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u11	RANUCCI, rapporteur. As I said, the principle of pluralism of information is traced back to this original mission, eliminating, on the other hand, tasks that interfere with the management of society and its governance. The foregoing, in full respect, and indeed in coherence and implementation of the constitutional framework as outlined, in particular, by the case law of the Court, since Judgment No 225 of 1974. It is not by chance that the principles relating to the revocation of the members of the Management Board have been transposed into law, and their effectiveness has been influenced by the scrutiny of the aforementioned Parliamentary Commission. The principle that the governing bodies of the managing institution are not so constituted as to represent directly or indirectly the exclusive or predominant expression of the executive power is also safeguarded and that their structure is such as to ensure their objectivity. In this sense, the bill provides for the appointment by the Government of only two members. In addition, the rule aims to ensure, including through employee participation in the appointment of the administrative body, that the editorial lines are based on criteria of impartiality and pluralism. On a text that I think is already good, the Commission has done a very careful job. That is why I must thank all the members of the Commission, by majority and opposition, who have further helped to improve it. As regards Article 1 of the draft law, which states that Article 45 of the single text of audiovisual and radio media services in relation to the rules governing public service contracts provides, inter alia, for the extension of the period from three to five years, the main changes made during the examination in 8a. The Commission is concerned with the inclusion of the reference to the concession granting RAI the role of the national public service service operator and, in particular, with regard to the provisions on public service locations in the territories where linguistic minorities are present, the identification of a solution for the issue of the broadcasting convention between the Autonomous Province of Bolzano and RAI, a solution which also defines financial aspects. In relation to Article 2 of the text, which deals with Article 49 of the single text in order to outline the new governance framework of the RAI, 8a First of all, the Commission supplemented the requirements for the appointment of a member of the Management Board, specifying that it should be carried out in such a way as to ensure gender equality, the balance between the professionalism and experience of the members, the absence of conflicts of interest and the accumulation of positions in competing companies. The members of the Management Board shall also be chosen from among persons of recognised good repute. Compared to the text presented, it was then re-introduced that the appointment of the Chairman of the Management Board would become effective after obtaining the favourable opinion, expressed by a two-thirds majority, of the Parliamentary Supervisory Committee on broadcasting services. In addition, the Chairman may be entrusted by the Board of Directors in the areas of external and institutional relations and supervision of internal control activities, after a resolution of the meeting authorising the delegation. The 8th Commission then intervened to specify that the appointment of members by the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Economic Affairs, should be in accordance with the criteria and arrangements for the appointment of members of the administrative bodies of subsidiaries directly or indirectly by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, as set out in the Directive of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance of 24 June 2013, and that the member of the board designated by the RAI employees' meeting must have the requirement of at least three consecutive years of employee employment with that company. There was also an intervention on how to select parliamentary designation components, introducing transparent procedures, which provide for the publication on the Internet of both the selection notices and the curricula of the participants, as well as on the procedures for the election of the component expressed by the RAI employee assembly, in order to ensure the participation and secrecy of the vote. With regard to the revocation of members of the Board, it is laid down that it shall take effect if it is in accordance with the resolution of the Parliamentary Supervisory Committee on RAI. Further integration approved by the 8th Commission requires the Chairman of the Management Board and two members, identified by the Board, to carry out monitoring and monitoring functions on the implementation by the company of the programming lines and guidelines, on the development and marketing of the audiovisual product, on the development of the portal and on the use of its content through new devices and platforms and on the quality of the programming of the public radio and television service, with a half-yearly report on the work carried out. I would like to open a small parenthesis and remind you that at present RAI's board of directors is convened, sometimes every fifteen days, since there is a need, because there is no one who can make the decisions. There is, therefore, a need for the council to take the decisions. In this new structure, the board of directors will be convened whenever necessary, like all other boards of directors (four or five times a year), but within it there will be committees as on all boards of directors of participating companies or public limited companies having duties. We wanted to point out that, given the delicacy of the public service, within the board of directors the president and two advisors will only report to the board the progress of cultural activity and public service. As regards the CEO, the 8th Commission supplemented the text in question with regard to both the powers and the requirements required to carry out this task. The most important change in relation to the powers of the managing director concerns the appointment of top-level managers, with the introduction of the forecast that for the directors of network, channel and tested is mandatory - but not binding - the acquisition of the opinion of the board of directors. In the case of headmasters, this opinion, if expressed by a two-thirds majority, is binding (I remember that two-thirds are five out of seven members). With regard to the recruitment powers of staff, it has been established that the managing director, after having received the opinion of the board of directors, defines the criteria and modalities for such recruitment as well as those for the assignment of tasks to external collaborators, in accordance with what is indicated, for companies with public participation, in Decree-Law No 112 of 2008, identifying the professional profiles and tasks for which, in relation to the specific tasks assigned, it may derogate from these criteria and modalities. In the course of the Commission's examination, the detailed indication was then introduced of both the causes which may weaken the requirements of good repute and cause the ineligibility or forfeiture in the course of the term of office of CEO and of the professional requirements required to be appointed. In addition, the prohibition for an employee of RAI to become CEO has been abolished, providing that, in the event of appointment, he is required to resign from the company or to take unpaid leave for the duration of the assignment. It has been established that the term of office cannot exceed the expiry of the Management Board, while the possibility of revocation remains entrusted to the Board, after having received the opinion of the Assembly. In addition, in the year following the end of the mandate, the CEO may not take on assignments or provide advice to competing RAI companies. In confirming the functions of general direction and supervision of the public broadcasting services of the Parliamentary Supervisory Committee, already provided for in the original text of the measure, it is stipulated that the Management Board should report on a six-monthly basis (and no longer only annually) before approval of the budget, to that Commission, giving the full list of the names of guests invited or participating in the broadcasts. Finally, the rule on the adaptation of the RAI statute to what was introduced with the measure under consideration is supplemented, providing that the opinion on the amendments to the Statute is expressed exclusively by the extraordinary assembly of the RAI. As regards Article 3, the deletion of paragraph 49-c is a consequence of the placing in Article 2 of the provision of the rules already described. We hope to be able to speak on Article 3 in the course of the debate in this House, because I believe that we will have to make some changes with regard to the competitions for cultural products, which cannot be approved with regard to those for the acquisition of services or goods, but they certainly have different characteristics. The 8th Commission then intervened on Article 4 of the measure, in order to supplement the provisions relating to the delegation to the Government for the discipline of the public financing of the RAI. In particular, the subject of the delegation has been extended to include also the discipline of the financing of the local broadcasting (and this, in my opinion, is an important novelty for all our territories) in order to recognize and qualify the function of public interest carried out and to guarantee to this sector adequate certainty of resources. It has also been specified that the revision of the discipline of the public financing of the RAI is aimed to guarantee economic and financial independence of the society as current concessionaire of the public service. Here too I make a small parenthesis, and I say that, when it comes to RAI independence, this is the fundamental point. We cannot talk about an independent RAI if it is not economically and financially independent. An RAI that should depend every year on the will of any government or any parliament would not really be independent. Let me give you an example. President Carraro is present in the Chamber. Well, the CONI was always independent as long as it could be thanks to Totocalcio. Afterwards, the Italian sport, having lost the Totocalcio and having lost that source of its absolutely autonomous financing, became dependent on the will and decisions of both Parliament and the Government. This RAI can't afford. Further amendments concern the procedure for the adoption of legislative decrees implementing the delegation, with a strengthening of the role of parliamentary committees. This is also very important, as far as the House and the Commission are concerned. In fact, it has been established that the opinions of the relevant Commissions are to be obtained on the schemes, both for the matter and for the financial profiles, providing for the need for a second sending to Parliament if the Government does not intend to comply with the opinions expressed. So, once again, Parliament's centrality is being highlighted. With reference to Article 5, the 8th Commission amended the principles and criteria for the exercise of the delegation conferred on the Government for the revision of the single text of audiovisual and radio media services. In particular, and this is a very important point, as it is a political point of all the Groups, accepting a request made by all the Groups during the debate in the Commission, the delegation criterion for the redefinition of the tasks of the public service was deleted, which also included a reference to the different technological platforms and the needs of technological innovation and the convergences of the distribution platforms. It was considered that this issue deserved to be dealt with in its own right, in an autonomous draft law. And I must thank the Government for agreeing that such an important subject should be dealt with by an autonomous bill. Other changes have also been introduced, including new principles relating to the transmission of content for minors, the broadcasting of television and radio broadcasts throughout the country and in areas where linguistic minorities are present. The procedure for the adoption of the legislative decrees relating to this delegation follows the one already described in Article 4, with the double parliamentary opinion. Article 6 has been amended to allow the application of the provisions on the appointment of the Board of Directors of the RAI, introduced by the text in question, from the date of entry into force of the law. Finally, the first application of the rules introduced with reference to the procedure for the appointment of the members of the Management Board was regulated, which will have to be completed within 30 days of the entry into force of the measure. I would like to conclude with a reflection and a wish. RAI in the 1960s accompanied the country in its growth. The boom years, we all remember. And he told the economy, the society, the culture, the sport of those years. We remember the documentaries on the construction of the Autostrada del Sole, cultural and school programs such as "Never too late," the varieties and sports programs, with the first football news or the mythical "Process to the stage". The hope is that the new RAI that will come out of this bill can once again accompany Italy to overcome the current difficult period, putting at the center of its mission the public service and the product, aimed at the cultural, social and economic growth of our country. RAI is not only a great cultural company, but also a flywheel of growth of a great country, which must look to the future with confidence, aware of its great potential. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Di Biagio and Romano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u12	I communicate that a number of questions have been referred for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Crosio to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u13	Mr President, I would like to point out that on Mr Ranucci' s bitterness we will have the opportunity to respond in general debate, as far as the constitutional aspects are concerned, that it is essential that we do not turn the service into a government agency. This is the basic point: the draft RAI reform law under consideration raises serious doubts about the investiture of corporate leadership. Among other things, it is not only us who emphasize these profiles of unconstitutionality, but also Enzo Cheli, who everyone knows well, who has written and talked a lot about this: we will see in the next few days what this will happen. In fact, four advisors out of seven - and also the managing director, although it must be accepted by the board of directors - are chosen from the area of the majority and the Executive. This raises a lot of doubts about constitutionality in particular and the compatibility with the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 226 of 1974. According to the Court's view expressed in that judgment, corporate leadership should not be appointed in such a way as to constitute an expression of executive power; these powers are recognised to Parliament as an expression of the entire community. Moreover, according to the Consulta - and this is very important - public service is such because it is made public, but not because it is in public hands: it is something different, I stress. In this country, perhaps we always get tangled about issues that leave much perplexed and, if the principle expressed then by the Consulta is still valid, we must get to a filter between the two levels, the parliamentary political one and the business one, on the model of a trust or a foundation, however with an independent, competent and qualified subject. Entering into the specific question of the preliminary ruling, Article 21 of the Constitution, until proven otherwise, establishes not only the right to inform, as an active profile of freedom of expression referring to those operating in the media system, but also the right to information - and this is very important - as a passive profile referring to all citizens as members of that public opinion on which democracy is founded. The RAI, as a public service radio and television concessionary, on the basis of a national contract with the Ministry, must guarantee access to free and complete information to all citizens through full coverage on national territory. Often the real role of public service, considered the widespread coverage throughout the national territory, is played by local televisions and not by the dealership that, for orographic reasons or due to the absence of repeaters, especially following the transition from analogue television to the digital terrestrial method, is not able to fulfil the public role attributed to it. It is therefore clearly considered unconstitutional to continue to attribute exclusively the public service relationship to RAI, regardless of the objective limits and not recognizing the need to include other entities in the provision of this service. The Group of the North League has always fought and stressed the importance of the role of local televisions, which, from the Monti Government onward, has been mistreated. I remember only one fact: from the 80 million expected to return to the local televisions we have reached little more than 20 million. But someone, by guaranteeing the votes in the Chamber, is able to bring home many more. This draft law, not explicitly providing for different forms of control from the current parliamentary supervisory committee, suggests that RAI programming is planned as a public service that does not comply with the principles of objectivity, transparency and pluralism, which will continue to be lacking. Plurality, to define it in the words of the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 826 of 1988, is the concrete possibility of choosing between programmes that guarantee the expression of trends with heterogeneous characteristics. But even more, Article 4 of the measure under consideration provides for a delegation for the discipline of the public financing of RAI, referring to legislative decrees the urgent revision of the current legislation on subscription fees aimed at ensuring the provision of the public service. Such delegation does not appear to be in line with the provisions of Article 76 of the Constitution. The exercise of the legislative function can in fact be delegated to the Government with determination of the guiding principles and criteria and only for limited time and for defined objects. The principles and guiding criteria underlying the delegation appear broad and generalistic, so as to make it possible for the Government to effectively comply with the delegation law, producing in fact an excess of delegation, which, submitted to the judgment of the Constitutional Court, would inevitably result in a declaration of unconstitutionality. The government's inactivity in introducing rules against the structural tax evasion of the canon is clearly unconstitutional, as it runs counter to the principle of Article 53 of the Constitution, which states that all citizens must contribute to public expenditure. These, in general, are the profiles of unconstitutionality that we find within this that you call RAI reform and that we would prefer to call "new gasparrizzato telerenzi." That's kind of our vision. What I would like to stress is the position taken by Enzo Cheli, who, among the positions held in the past, also holds, from 1976 to 1980, that of RAI's board of directors; from 1987 to 1995, that of constitutional judge; from 1995 to 1996, that of vice president of the same Court; from 1998 to 2005, that of president of AGCOM; and, from 2007 to 2010, that of president of the Board of superior communications. I believe that Dr. Cheli is a more than qualified person - certainly more than I am - to see these profound profiles of unconstitutionality within this RAI reform. I want to emphasise in a particular way, once again, what is directed to governance, so called also in this bill, namely that the important thing is not to transform the public service into a government agency: this is the fundamental point. From our point of view, and not only - we are in good company, given the important speech made by Dr. Cheli at the hearing in the RAI Supervisory Committee - the strong doubts have been raised precisely in relation to the investiture of the business leadership. I remember that four advisors out of seven, including the managing director, although this must be accepted - I remember - by the Board of Directors, are chosen by the majority area and by the Executive. This raises serious doubts about constitutionality, in particular the compatibility with the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 226 of 1974. I do not repeat myself, but, reading the sentence, it seems more than clear that this measure is unconstitutional. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u14	He asked Senator Cioffi to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u15	Mr President, I am pleased to say that, above all, you are the President of this House at this moment, who is the one who understands it, given that the law which currently regulates the setting up of the RAI bears his name. Having said that, I heard the rapporteur say that the text from which we started was already good. I think it wasn't a good text, in fact, we didn't like it at all. Surely something has been done in the Commission, mainly with regard to a transparent pre-selection of the members of the Management Board because to make a call, and therefore to acquire curricula, which can be made available, is certainly an act of transparency that will certainly tend to improve. But it remains the vulnus that is always the same, if you will allow me. In fact, there is always talk, constantly and continuously of the fact that the RAI has been occupied by the parties and we continue to make the members of the board of directors choose the parties. There is undoubtedly a problem and we must ask ourselves how to find a definitive solution, because RAI, as we said in the Commission, has been partitioned and divided because it is thought and assumed that the parties represent pluralism. Well, I keep wondering why we identify the pluralism of voices and thought with parties, given what they have become. Perhaps the parties no longer represent that cultural diversity, because there is a flattening, such an embarrassment that has produced a Parliament that does not have at all the dignity that perhaps it could have in those famous fifties or sixties about which the rapporteur spoke about the 'Great RAI'. Perhaps at the time there were people who had waged the war, who had some backbone and dignity. Things that I think have been completely lost over the years. That is why we should refocus the problem on diversity and pluralism. We intervene with the question referred, as Senator Crosio has already said, because we believe there are clear reasons for unconstitutionality. 10:07 a.m. (Following CIOFFI) It has already been recalled - and we too do so - that the 1974 Constitutional Court ruled that the governing bodies of the RAI should not be directly or indirectly the exclusive or predominant expression of the executive power. Yet, if we add the various pieces, the executive power identifies itself with the one party in the government. To this we add what will be the Renziano plan, which will certainly not arrive in port because if we do not succeed to oppose us here in perhaps will oppose the population (we hope with good and not with bad). Therefore, this system means that there is only one party at the centre, and therefore the Executive, which in this case is in total osmosis with the party, given the total identification of the secretary of the majority party with the Head of Government (it should therefore be understood what the party is and what the Government is) if everything is mixed and identified, in the appointment of four directors out of seven. I therefore think that we are faced with a clear case of constitutional violation and that is why we are discussing the question before us: it is important to remember that. Then there is the question of pluralism, reiterated in other judgments of the Constitutional Court, such as No 420 of 1994 and No 155 of 2002 and represented - I repeat - by the parties. Perhaps we should think instead that pluralism should be represented by cultural diversity and the ability to think independently. Shouldn't RAI's task be to form critical consciences, just as in the end it is that of the school? Or maybe it must be to form lobotomized ones, which for many years has been offered to us. Shouldn't RAI be different? Or do we want to continue following that pattern, which proposes to send our brains to the cluster? There is a part of this Parliament, which has been able to govern the RAI, through the government, which was the one that showed us boobs on television. I don't want to remind you of the boobs shown in television shows like "Drive in" and before that, "Big bump." There is someone in this House who knows that story well. You lobotomized us and wanted the people to be lobotomized to make your dirty comfortable, but the RAI should perform a different task. How, though, can he do this if those who want to lobotomize the people are the same as those who appoint the members of the board of directors? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What are we talking about? We made a simple proposal. You said it yourself, we didn't say it: Outside the parties of the RAI. But how do you put the parties out of RAI if the parties make appointments? We have made a simple proposal, which has already been applied in the procurement code. If it's good for contracts, where you steal it in a striking way. [[Applause from Senator Morra]] Perhaps it could also be good for RAI, which should give this country a vision and perspective and should teach Italian to Italians. After all, that's what RAI did in the 1960s: she taught Italian. We must act in this way, if we want to make people in this country start again to have the pleasure of watching television and to think that there is history, culture and the possibility of seeing a different Italy, in which hope can be given. Perhaps we should speculate about an RAI whose board of directors works to make people feel involved. So we really need to get the parties out of RAI. There are also some small things that you have inserted into the text, but they are minimal and do not affect the system. We have also asked for much tighter posts on the board of directors. The maximum would have been to ensure that there was a great openness, as we had proposed, with the Authority for Communications Guarantees (AGCOM) issuing a band and specifying the criteria, then we make a grid, from which to choose 20 or 30 people of high quality and high moral mirroring. Once the word "moral" was used, outside and inside this House. Members sitting on the left side of the Chamber should perhaps remember that, colleagues on the other side I do not know. At least some of you should remember the meaning of the word "moral." If we take a series of people of high moral mirroring, then what is the problem with the choice of Guy or Caius? We do this for the director of the work of a large concession work, let alone if we cannot do the same for the RAI board of directors. This text, on which we are working, has clear profiles of unconstitutionality, as we have said. Then there is one good thing, given that we are talking a lot about Europe, although it is better not to talk about what Europe has done to Greece. In fact, excuse me for saying Europe: perhaps I should say what Schäuble did, but let us put aside the German Finance Minister's cause. There is a resolution, adopted by the Council of Europe on 15 February 2012, which states that RAI must be freed from parties, and also from governments, in order to return it to the citizens who finance it and are the recipients of it. This is a resolution adopted by the Council of Europe. In essence, the theme is always the same: the text presents clear profiles of unconstitutionality and therefore we ask not to pass on to its examination and to declare it simply unconstitutional. We will also ask - and we will then see in the course of the debate, which seems interesting and even a little bit spicy, given the large number of people who have been involved in general discussion and then in the examination of the amendments - not to "gasparize" your bill, because one of them was enough for Gasparri. After all, if "gasparing " sucks to us, " renouncing " sucks to us the same. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u16	He asked Senator Gasparri to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u17	Mr President, de minimis non curat praetor, so the Gasparri remain, the de minimis pass. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] So I am not even referring to pro-temporaneous characters in this House. As the Forza Italia Group, we have tabled a preliminary question in this House because we call on the Government and the House to respect the judgments of the Constitutional Court. [[Comments by Senators Castaldi and Cioffi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u18	Senator Castaldi, please. Senator Cioffi, you intervened quietly, allow others to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u19	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). The judgments of the Constitutional Court have been varied and univocal and have already been cited. Before, Senator Crosio referred to one of the most important, judgment No 225 of 1974. What did these judgments say? Undersecretary Giacomelli followed the debate in the Commission and then we discuss a topic publicly, also addressing those who have sometimes given improper interpretations. I repeat, there has been a debate in the Commission, which lasted a few weeks, a serious debate, so much so that some of the amendments that I myself tabled have been transposed because they are based on a constitutional balance. We are discussing an article in the current law, the one passed in 2004 and composed of about thirty articles, which was a good law (but I will talk about this in the general discussion intervening later), so much so that leaving the current law in place we are discussing the criteria for appointing the RAI summits, which represents a point of the whole issue. We are not talking about the radio and television system, although this is an important point because RAI is a sensitive part of the country for the interactions between public service, Parliament and politics. It is not by chance that there are three judgments and an order of the Constitutional Court on this issue, which highlights its importance. Well, when we presented the law on the reform of the radio and television system in 2002, Article 2, which we are now discussing, was not included in the text of the law because at the time, as Minister, I said that Parliament had to decide on this issue. At the time, the appointment of the directors of the RAI, which were five, was entrusted to the Presidents of the Chamber and Senate. It was therefore a parliamentary source in line with the judgments of the Constitutional Court. The Presidents, however, always asked for this power to be removed from them, I imagine because of the pressure and pressure to which they were subjected. So we did not write the article and, once the law of all articles was made, we decided to let a proposal be born in Parliament on the basis of parliamentary debate, since the judgments spoke of the centrality of Parliament. From the parliamentary debate came the article we are discussing today: rapporteurs, majority, minority, I believe that the leftist oppositions of the time abstained on that article, demonstrating that there was a parliamentary confrontation. This method of designation of RAI summits can certainly be modified. At the time, we considered it so much the subject of a parliamentary debate that in the approach of the law that I presented it was not even written and was born in Parliament. Therefore, it is good that a possible modification of it is born today from a free parliamentary confrontation. What is the popular theme? Outside the RAI parties. Who does not agree with such a statement? But what does it take? That's the problem. Shall we privatise RAI? I know that amendments have been tabled to that effect. Our Group also relaunches this issue. Senator Minzolini has intervened several times in the Commission. I would remind myself that already the law in force provides for the possibility of listing RAI on the stock exchange and to do, as has been done for ENI and Enel, a holding company that can progressively put quotas on the market. You can sell branches of company: already it previews the law in force. The RAI has 13 channels; it has not only three, because we have multiplied the offer: there are channels for sport, culture and cinema. Most people don't look at them, but there are. Individual channels could be sold or agreements could be made in the field of sport or cinema with private operators. It can already be done. Do we want to discuss this further here? There are also our amendments. But if the public service remains public, who is the shareholder? With the excuse of kicking the parties out, we can't just put one, the one that happens to be in the government today. This is unconstitutional, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] That is the point, that is the reality we are discussing. It is said: we hunt the parties, so civil society arrives. I'd like to figure out which one. Years ago, some proposed that the rectors of universities should choose RAI advisors. I have great respect for many rectors, although even in universities sometimes there is some problem of clientelism or familyism. They say the names on the door tags don't change because fathers, sons and grandchildren take over. But why the rectors? Parliament is more representative than other realities. We in our question referred to the Court's judgments. The first and most important is that of 1974 in which the Court literally said that a centrality of Parliament was needed. The Court then stated that it was to ensure that the governing bodies of the managing body were not so constituted as to represent directly or indirectly the expression, exclusive or predominant, of the executive power (Government); that, for the realization of the objectives indicated and for the relative control, adequate powers were granted to Parliament, which institutionally represents the entire national community. Hence the Council appointed in Parliament. Parliament, whether it likes it or not, represents the community. New parties can be born; old ones can disappear. Whoever is here represents a piece of country and, therefore, this popular sovereignty, as in the Commissions and in the Chamber, is transmitted in the votes and nominations that are made for the Constitutional Court, for the CSM and also for the RAI. Hence the constitutional jurisprudence, which then returns in 1987 with the term 'parliamentaryisation'. The Constitutional Court uses this term to say that the Government/House must only be the formal owner, but Parliament must exercise this power. So what does the current law do? When it comes to drawing up the list of boards of directors, instead of writing the formal owner, the government or the Treasury, delegates this power to Parliament. This was done by the Parliamentary Supervisory Committee under the current law. Now it is said to do so with four members, appointed two by the Senate and two by the House. It is, however, a parliamentary source; it must not be the parliamentary supervisory committee. We have various ways. Today also for many authorities, such as communications and privacy, the model is this. Some members elect them the Assembly of the House, others the Assembly of the Senate. The Presidents of the Authority shall be ratified by a qualified majority of two thirds of the Commission. This was inspired by Parliament when it called the so-called guarantee presidency. The current law provides that the president of the RAI will become such if the two-thirds of the Supervisory Commission ratify its candidacy. This point of view has returned to the Commission. Is it better or worse for the President of the RAI to have the support of two thirds of the Commission? Generally, no one has two thirds of Parliament. This means that the pro-tempore majority must seek dialogue with the pro-tempore minority and identify shared personalities. Is that a right or a wrong method? It is already used for the Communications Authority and other events. Qualified quorums are also used for the Constitutional Court and for the MSC. I do not need to dwell on these issues here, which I am, of course, noting to the House. In 1989, the Constitutional Court's ruling reaffirms the role of the Parliamentary Commission for the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services, which is an important parliamentary body. It's not a harness. Degeneration, partition and interference can exist anywhere. That is degeneration, but the principle that Parliament, the representative of national sovereignty, has a role of control and direction on the public service is fundamental. The Constitutional Court returns to the issue in 2008, i.e. after thirty-four years, when the members had now changed (the term of office of the constitutional judges is nine years), and reiterates the same concepts. In 2008 an order was adopted, and in 2009 a sentence and the so-called Petroni case broke out, referring to whether or not the Government could revoke an adviser appointed by the Executive. The Constitutional Court, again here, reaffirmed the role of the Parliamentary Supervisory Commission and Parliament. Dear rapporteur and dear representatives of the Government, we have appreciated the discussion that has taken place on some points and also that there has been a transparent and public confrontation. However, we are puzzled by the figure of a CEO who has too many powers and who can go beyond the functions that the judgments entrust to Parliament. The question before us is therefore our opposition to the current drafting of the draft law, which we will try to change in the course of the parliamentary debate, not with obstructive practices, but with amendments that reflect principles of democracy and pluralism. We do not defend partitions or party interference, but pluralism and democracy, because we cannot give power to the government or to a single party. The fight against parties, in the name of only one, is an act of blatant hypocrisy, as well as of obvious unconstitutionality. For these reasons, we call on the House to vote in favour of the question before us. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Comments of Senator Airola]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u20	He asked Senator De Petris to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP4. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u21	Mr President, the report by Senator Ranucci, who explained the changes made to the text during the work in the Commission, makes it very clear that, with regard to governance and, consequently, the connection of the choices made on the public service nature of RAI, the facility is indeed confirmed. There have been additional filings and accommodations, but the plant has been absolutely confirmed in the text that comes to this House today. 10:27 a.m. (De PETRIS follow-up). That is precisely the point on which we believe that there are very clear elements, in the light of the various judgments of the Constitutional Court that have taken place over the years, which raise very serious doubts about the constitutionality of some choices. As far as we are concerned, there are, in particular, problems of consistency with the constitutional system in Article 2. Moreover, in the draft law that we have presented, we have put forward proposals on the governance of the RAI, which are the direct expression and interpretation of that principle of pluralism of information enshrined in the Constitutional Court. That is why we have presented in our proposals a system which, even in the system of appointment and formation of the Management Board, makes direct reference to the principle of pluralism. On the other hand, the text entitled "Reform of RAI and the public service radio and television" in fact, in Article 2, provides for a new framework for the governance of RAI, which, in our opinion, is a clear regression, also with respect to the current and previous rules. In fact, the principle of independence is seriously violated and it is useless to try to put it down and discuss it, because the debate that has accompanied us in all these years about the need to free RAI from the parties has been translated here, with all evidence, in the fact that the principle of independence is not redeemed nor have solutions been found to guarantee the independence itself, but the decision-making power is put directly in the hands of the majority and the government, in particular with the modification of the mode of appointment of the President and especially of the managing director, which takes place on the proposal of the Assembly. This figure, moreover, sees expanded all its management powers in the organization and operation within the company and not by chance the name changes from "director" to "administrator." This is precisely the explicit violation of independence, because the Assembly makes exclusive reference to the Government, being the share in total public participation and therefore of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. If you look carefully at all the mechanisms, you can see that the six-sevenths of the board of directors are, in fact, government nominations or the majority of government, also because this reform takes place - let us not forget this - following the adoption by Parliament of an electoral law, the Italicum, which provides an abnormal majority prize for the composition of a single chamber. Thus, with this election mechanism, an absolute control of the government pro tempore - and, in fact, of the majority - over the public radio and television service is determined, totally annulling the principle of independence. The violation, therefore, of the principle of independence and pluralism of information brings a direct consequence, which is that of the violation of constitutionally guaranteed principles, as well as of other principles which are part and fall also from our participation in the European Union and which are precisely the constraints deriving from Community law and, in the case of information, also from other international obligations and charters. Article 21 of the Constitution, which solemnly enshrines the right of information and information, and thus constitutionalizes the fundamental principle of pluralism and free and independent information - see Constitutional Court judgment No 826 of 1988 - is clearly violated in the choices made for governance, in Article 2. There is also a direct and indirect violation of Article 10 of the Convention on Human Rights, which concerns freedom of information and which has also been the subject of numerous interpretations and considerations by the Council of Europe bodies and which lays down, among the main requirements which should include legislation relating to the broadcasting service, the independence of information from political power, above all - this is underlined - in the choice of governance of the governing bodies. There are, however, many resolutions adopted by the Council of Europe which clearly state that one of the main elements that qualifies and justifies the public broadcasting service is its independence from the Government and other operators. There are also a number of judgments in this regard, and I would like to quote a few of them. The Constitutional Court in judgments No 225 of 1974 and No 284 of 2002 has always expressed very clear opinions by establishing that the governing bodies of the public service broadcasting concessionary cannot be exclusive or prevalent expression of the executive power, and that therefore the Government must remain outside the power of appointment and the authority of direction of the RAI in an exclusive and predominant manner. The forecast of Article 2 of the reform, which provides for the creation of a CEO who would assume full power over the operational management of the company, being appointed directly by the Executive and which only responds to the Government, is a clear and clear violation of the judgment of the Court. Analogous violation can be found where it is expected the power to revoke the board of directors that objectively offers the Government an undisputed power to blackmail and that leaves it absolute field free in the choices of address of the RAI company. Then there is the judgment on Central Europe 7, issued by the European Court of Human Rights, which refers to the Italian situation and in which, among other things, the violation of Article 117 of our Constitution is underlined. The new governance, which should be an expression of the entire Italian society, a direct consequence of the constitutional principle of pluralism, as is the case in European broadcasting services, would instead have absolutely impossible aspects in our constitutional framework, in that it would produce a CEO in whose hands the maximum concentration of powers goes, being indicated not only by the Minister of the Economy, but voted by the Council of Ministers. Then there is one last aspect. In order to ensure the editorial independence of the public service the fee could also be configured as a tax of purpose and thus represent in this way a sure and non-discretionary resource from the government in office. The public service carried out by RAI is a subjective service, similar to that of the public school, which is such not only because of the kind of subjects it teaches, but because of the public nature of the person providing it. Public service in this way becomes objective. For these reasons, we ask that the draft law should not be examined. But before I conclude, I would like to say clearly that we have some choices in the area of governance: to reaffirm our adherence to the principle of pluralism, constitutionally protected, and the independence of the public service, or we have that of Bulgaria, because I believe that in the European and international scene is the only example with this method of choosing RAI governance. On this too, we must make it clear where we want to place our country. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Minzolini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u22	He asked Senator Bruni to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP5. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u23	Mr President, Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a few remarks on the substance of the draft law, as it is right that it should be when a question of a preliminary ruling is raised, and I therefore avoid commenting on the changed function of the radio and television system, which I have also heard, also because it will certainly be in-depth issues in general discussion. Certainly, however, we cannot fail to consider here too the progressive liberalization of the ether, as an important fact of recent decades, with the necessary and consequent multiplication of the information and cultural broadcasting offering that has seen the birth of new publishing products, which has changed the whole system and which also gives rise to the current bill or the reforms of recent years, including the so-called Gasparri law. I believe that one cannot fail to consider these last mutations and the fact that all this has greatly widened the possibility of the individual to pack his daily schedule, both informative (think how important the news networks that are now available have become), and especially playful, recreational and cultural, thus opening the door to the birth of a new social awareness of the right to information and therefore the progressive erosion of that original perimeter of the functions of the public radio and television service. This is also a fact not caused by someone in particular, by some decision or by a single regulation, but it is an objective fact that is before us. The bill today at our examination, in Article 4, provides a delegation to the Government for the adoption of one or more legislative decrees for the discipline of the public financing of the RAI and the local issue, on the basis of principles and guiding criteria, including, in particular, in the first paragraph, the revision of the legislation in force in the matter of subscription fees, taking into account consolidated jurisprudence. Well, just the subscription fee, mentioned in letter a) of paragraph 1 of article 4 of the bill, originally (when RAI was born), was configured as a consideration due by the users of the service, reserved exclusively to the State and exercised under concession: a real counter-performance. Today, however, it has taken on the nature of tax benefits, as recognised by the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 81 of 1963, when doubts of constitutional legitimacy were declared unfounded in terms of the incompatibility of criminal protection, then provided, in relation to the fulfilment of its obligation with the alleged contractual nature of the relationship between user and concessionaire. It was then evident the nature of the fee and, with Law No 103 of 1975, it was recognized this fee as a tax, relying on the legislative provision of Article 15 of that law, according to which the fee is also due for the holding of equipment suitable for the reception of cable programs or from abroad, as reported in the judgment n. 535 of 1988 of the Consulta. According to that last judgment, the legality of the imposition of the canon was therefore no longer based on the actual possibility for the individual user to use the public radio and television service, but on the assumption that it is attributable to a manifestation of contributory capacity, in accordance with Article 53 of the Constitution. Thus, the mere possession of television sets has been considered as an indication of contributory capacity. You will remember, especially in recent years, a series of controversies related also to the problem of detention in the professional studios or in the places where the production of personal computers suitable for the reception of the radio and television signal. The very aspect of the reasonable index of contribution capacity linked to the holding of television sets is unresolved or partially resolved by the recent judgments. On this occasion it would have been possible to bring this aspect to a more complete definition, but this did not happen. It appears, therefore, clear that the subscription fee to the RAI always remains a tax of possession and not the payment of a service purchased as the result of a free and conscious choice. This should be better defined and better articulated if the constitutional forecast referred to in the second paragraph of Article 3, which reads as follows, is always valid: It is the task of the Republic to remove obstacles of all kinds. It is precisely the profile of the function of the canon and the non-automatic connection with the simple holding of the television set, which becomes an indicator of contribution capacity, that should have been resolved in this law, while it still leaves open to various doubts of constitutionality and we, once again, want to put it to the attention of the House with the question referred to us. Finally, in addition to what we have said regarding the canon, it must also be said that article 4, paragraph 1, of the measure under consideration provides for a not better specified reference to the consolidated jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, which represents a violation of Article 76 of the Constitution, which, in defining the modalities of the delegation to the Government for the adoption of legislative decrees, imposes the determinations of principles and guiding criteria for defined objects. In this respect, the general reference to earlier judgments of the Court cannot be considered to be determined. In the same way as the constitutional violations described above and for the reasons set out above, the Group of Italian Conservators, Reformists, asks not to proceed with the examination of the bill and urges the House to approve the question before us. [[Applause from the CRI Group and Senator Carraro. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u24	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u27	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, in the course of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, several parties have raised the reasons for assessing this measure which is flawed in terms of constitutionality in its content, which mainly concerns the procedures for appointing RAI governance. It is clear to all of us that we are talking not about any society, but about the public broadcasting service, which must guarantee the country a transparent, democratic, participatory source of information and, finally, third or, in any case, politically balanced pluralism of opinions and belongings. It seems to us that the concentration that is actually determined in the indication of the Board of Directors, all in the hands of the majority of the Government and the Government itself, can result in a profound violation of the principles of pluralism and independence, which are contained in the articles of our fundamental Charter which refer to this. In addition, a small detail is added. Since we are talking about an important society, also from the point of view of economic management, we cannot forget that RAI is an entity that produces cultural products that are on the market. A great discussion has been opened in the past months - for example - on what should be the economic treatment for those who perform a function of administration of these companies and on which should have been reserved to the managing director of public companies. We have also spoken on this subject by identifying - for example - a roof, and then a way to overcome the roof itself. We know very well that the CEO of RAI is not subject to a roof, and that to establish the CEO's compensation is the board of directors. Outside the roof, the only ceiling that arises is the compensation due in the event of the revocation of the mandate, which is obviously related to a certain number of months and which would allow, in the case of the change of political conditions, an intervention for the uniformity of that office to the thought of the majority of the Government. All of this is linked to the situation which has already been fairly compromised in this country in terms of information - I say this honestly - because we are faced with large private concentrations and a public concentration. Those who want to intervene in the information market independently find important barriers, which risk also violating the economic principles on free competition - I repeat - and which must concern the whole system of publishing companies. And in the face of concentrations of this kind, which interfere with politics, one cannot think of being able to determine an oligopoly, and therefore a cartel, which establishes the access and development of a high political opinion, of a different vision of the world, of an interest, perhaps even a noble one, or of an attention to a socially difficult situation, a discomfort or a specific territory. Anyone who wants access with a thought to a topic that is not shared by those who manage information in Italy in a concentrated way as it is, both in the public and in the private, would be injured in the foundation of the principles of freedom, which instead must be guaranteed to every citizen and every social and political organization in our country. And this is a theme. And then, if we put together these events, which concern management, economic function and free competition, with those that instead concern the development of a free thought, which must have access allowed in the context of the correct, transparent, plural and independent management of information, we are facing a problem of total delicacy also with respect to the possibilities of civil development of our society. It's no small matter. The CEO of the public society represents one of the legs of the concentration of the oligopoly of information and cultural production broadcasting, especially today, when you pay a certain price. And I say that, because many of us are systematically fighting a battle for local television and regional television stations to have the opportunity to develop their activities and, therefore, the market conditions on which they can move, which is not the case in the state, as we all know. As well as we know the crisis that suffers from many publications and many information societies, especially in the local area. How many journalists have ended up on the streets, in recent months and in recent years, for this concentrated management of the power of information. How many! Simply see the ecatombe of the corporate crises that have been determined and how much compression has been recorded in the freedom of information and its independence in this country. Then it is clear that the theme we set is true. I call on everyone to see the list of those who have lost their jobs: great newspapers, great views, great political positions. That is why, Mr President, I support the vote on the preliminary constitutionality of the Senate Act 1880. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u30	FALANGA (CRI). Mr President, after your speech, I had decided not to speak, in view of the clarity of the presentation and the essential nature of the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Senator Romani. But I decided to intervene and then I'll tell you why. What is the question referred for a preliminary ruling? The question referred for a preliminary ruling is an act of a purely technical nature, which should highlight the unconstitutional nature of the draft law before this Assembly. Any further dissertation, which goes beyond this exquisitely technical aspect, seems to me completely inappropriate and inappropriate in the illustration of a question referred for a preliminary ruling. I was saying before I could not intervene. Then why did I intervene? I have taken the floor because I would like to remind Senator Cioffi, who spoke for the 5 Star Movement, that in his speeches we should adhere to the technical limits of the profiles of unconstitutionality of the norm and should not go any further, offending, moreover, part of this Parliament and myself in particular, when, with the Eduardian theatrical mimicry not appropriate to the Senate Chamber, he referred to ignorance, on my part and of the colleagues who sit in this part of the hemicycle, of the term "morality". I send it back to the sender, and then to you, Senator Cioffi, this statement. As far as I am concerned, if one day you want to confront me in terms of morality, I am prepared to do so with you and any other member of your parliamentary group. We now come to the question referred for a preliminary ruling, which is clearly expressed, as well as in my own Group's preliminary ruling, also in the question put by Forza Italia. We have, Mr President, a CEO appointed by the Government and ratified by the Board of Directors. If we consider that the board of directors is composed, on the basis of the new rule, of two members appointed by the Senate, two by the Chamber of Deputies and two by the Government, and that the vote is given for a single name, it is evident that, of the two appointed by the Senate, one will certainly be designated by the majority of Government. The House will have the same situation, to which the two appointed by the Government are added, on the indication of the competent ministers. Well, we will have a board of directors that, in contrast to the multiple judgments and ordinances of the Constitutional Court, will have an overwhelming majority and will then appoint the managing director, to whom, moreover, the powers of government of the RAI have been extended. It is clear, therefore, that the judgment in which the Court affirms the primary responsibility of Parliament is certainly disregarded by the measure in question in the appointment of the managing director. The other question, which has also been raised by my colleagues in the League, is the excessive delegation of both Article 4 and Article 5. Well, even a student in the first year of law knows well the principles and limits of delegation that a Parliament can confer on the Government. Yet, even those limitations in this provision have been violated. So there are two significant points on which the various questions referred are based: the first - as I said - is the violation of the principles repeatedly affirmed by the Court, as President Gasparri rightly pointed out; the second is the excess of delegation. That is what the House has to say on. It is on this point that the House must express its opinion. I personally, as a modest lawyer, can only share the points of unconstitutionality, which is why I will undoubtedly vote for the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, first of all the questions tabled by my group and, subsequently, the others. I repeat that I did not need to intervene because other colleagues were much clearer than I was, and perhaps I briefly set out the two issues. But I did so because no intervention can be used to offend other members of this Parliament free of charge. I repeat, therefore, that my speech was determined by the irritation caused by the offensive words that were addressed to me by Senator Cioffi. Connect, when you talk about morality, pay attention to what you say and to who you address your lessons. Of course, you won't talk to me. I shall therefore end by repeating my vote in favour of the Conservative, Italian Reformist and, personally, my vote in favour of the preliminary questions tabled by the other Groups in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u33	LO MORO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it will not be easy, in the time allocated, to try to answer the many questions that have been asked, so much so that, as a premise, I want to make it clear, also as an approach to my arguments, that many of the ideas - certainly supported by arguments that should be contradicted - were better placed in the general debate, and could be put back in that forum. Therefore, the arguments which I shall put at the basis of the Group of the Party of European Socialists' vote against the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, thus expressing my support for the measure, relate exclusively to the technical aspects of constitutionality. In this respect too, a number of topics and topics have been put forward in the debate. I am beginning to talk about what has been treated in the most widespread way, namely the contrast with the above-mentioned Constitutional Court judgments, nos. 225 and 226 of 1974, which are both relevant to the subject. However, with regard to the subject matter and the complaints raised, surely the judgment to be invoked is No 225 of 1974. In this regard, I would like to read the textual content of the judgment because, even with regard to the last speeches that have been made, I want to immediately denounce a fact. Today we are led to debate in terms of majority and minority, but in reality the problem that the judgment poses, to which we must conform and which we must observe, concerns the relationship not between majority and minority, but between Parliament and Executive, which is quite another thing. I understand that we are at a time when there is much more talk about the relationship between the majority and the minority, but I still believe that we should remain a parliamentary republic. So what matters is the division between Parliament and the Executive and not the division between the majority and the minority. Having said that, I shall read the part of judgment No 225 of 1974 which concerns us most, which, after having spoken of the State monopoly and its necessary conformity with constitutional principles, states that the Court, while respecting the legislator's discretion to choose the most appropriate instruments to ensure the achievement of the fundamental objectives of which it has been addressed, considers that the law must at least provide for it, and this is the point which concerns us that the governing bodies of the managing body (whether public body or private concessionaire provided that they belong to the public hand) are not constituted in such a way as to represent directly or indirectly the exclusive or predominant expression of the executive power and that their structure is such as to guarantee its objectivity. This is not about splitting up and discussing what the legislator's choices should be, on which we will discuss in a second phase and each of us will be able to express our opinion. I don't commit to political choices. But with regard to the constitutionality of the reference article, which is the 2nd on governance, I would like to say that there is no doubt about constitutionality. We have read all the strong arguments that the constitutionalist Cheli, whom I esteemed, has used, and the warning that he has launched on the need not to give in to the possibility that RAI will become a government agency. However, it does not seem to me that, in the state of the legislation, this is a real risk. I repeat that I am talking about existing legislation and not about the prospect of constitutional reforms and of a single chamber elected with Italicum, which could pose other problems, even if the legislation under consideration provides for limited voting and, therefore, the risks to this end are well established. I repeat that of the seven members of the board of directors two are elected by the Chamber of Deputies, two are elected by the Senate of the Republic, with a vote limited to one (so allowing the expression of the majority and minority), two are appointed by the Council of Ministers and one is designated by the assembly of employees. In relation to the issue raised by the Constitutional Court, I do not think there can be any such risk. If we begin to discuss majorities and minorities and no longer Parliament and the Commission, the problem could be raised in different terms, but this concerns the substance and no longer the problems of constitutionality. I therefore repeat that, at a time when only two of the seven members of the Board of Directors are appointed by the Council of Ministers, there is certainly no risk that, directly or indirectly, the Board of Directors may be regarded, either exclusively or predominantly, as an expression of executive power. The same observation was made with respect to the Management Board. Paragraph 10 of the same article states that it is the board of directors that appoints the managing director, on proposal of the assembly; but the assembly, being the RAI public as property of the Ministry of the treasury, is essentially governmental. But the proposal is from the assembly. You have to understand what you mean. Does this mean that, if there is a proposal, we cannot differentiate ourselves? Does that mean that the board of directors will be fully in the hands of the executive authority, even if the majority within it is not governmental? I believe these are subjects of merit. Even when it is suggested the possibility of an external company or external mechanisms that guarantee more independence, on the subject such a speech is absolutely sustainable, but in terms of constitutionality it does not seem possible to argue in a different way. So, from the point of view of governance, which is then the topic that most occupied today's debate, there is a matter of merit that needs to be deepened, with the competences that other colleagues have more than me. As far as the problem of constitutionality is concerned, it seems to me that it is not well founded. And reference has been made to governance in this regard. With regard to constitutionality, the canon and Article 53 of the Constitution were discussed. But here is the legislator who makes choices. I can understand what Mr Bruni says, namely that references to judgments and consolidated guidelines of the Court should be avoided in a legal text. But all this can be amended and, if we can better write the text of the law, we can certainly do so. In the state, there seems to be no other criterion left than to anchor the fee to the ownership of a radio and television instrument. In any case, this is also a matter of merit and I do not think I have to give any other answers. I would like to add, among other things, that we are certainly a parliamentary Republic, but the work carried out by the Commission has greatly accentuated this fact. In fact, even in matters of delegation - as my colleague has said in his report and, therefore, I merely refer to it - in Articles 4 and 5, which contain delegations - one of which has been criticized with the subject to which I referred earlier - the legislative decree under discussion is subject to very strong scrutiny by Parliament. This is so true that the Government cannot differ from Parliament's opinion except under certain conditions and procedures. It therefore seems to me that, thanks to the work done in the Commission, the role of Parliament has been greatly safeguarded. Reference has also been made to Article 117 of the Constitution, which deals with competences. This issue has been dealt with, through the opinion of the Parliamentary Committee on Regional Affairs, in a very comprehensive and excellent way. In this opinion, among other things favorable, reference is made both to the third paragraph of Article 117 of the Constitution, where there is talk of concurrent legislation and the law of communication is inserted in the context of the subjects of concurrent legislation between State and Regions, and to the second paragraph, which legitimizes the legislative intervention with reference to the protection of competition, letter (e) and the need to ensure the determination of the essential levels of benefits concerning civil and social rights, which must be guaranteed throughout the national territory, referred to in letter (m). I'm not going any further in the discussion. I repeat that the issues of merit all call for the necessary deepening, as this is a very sensitive measure which, among other things, concerns more governance than the substance of the radio and television service. It seems to me, however, that all the complaints that have been raised can be overcome and, therefore, I am voting against the Group of the Democratic Party to the prejudices that have been tabled. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u34	We shall now proceed to the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling. Verification of the quorum ARRIGONI (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1880, 746, 760, 1570, 1795, 1815, 1823, 1841 and 1855 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the question referred, with several reasons, by Senator Crosio and other senators (QP1), Senator Cioffi and other senators (QP2), Senator Romani Paolo and other senators (QP3), Senator De Petris and other senators (QP4) and Senator Bonfrisco and other senators (QP5). It's not approved. Since many Members are asking for it, I have the counterproof. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u35	Mr President, at the outset of my speech, I would like to mention, with regard to this important reform, the usual statements made by the President-in-Office of the Council, to which we are now accustomed. In this case, too, there was nothing missing in presenting redundantly what, according to him, was to be one of the central points and excellence of the reforms of his government. 11:17 a.m. (Crossio followed). The President of the Council stated, in his various delusional statements, including some on the issue of RAI, that he would destroy the parties from RAI. He wanted to take it, eliminate waste and return it to the citizens who are the real owners of the public service. He said their bet was to make RAI the most innovative company in Europe for cultural offering. He claimed that he wanted to enable her to compete in the European scenario with increasing strength. Bravo, superlative, as always! Too bad that, once again, as always, after these redundant, roboating and sparkling statements from the magical Renzi, we have actually come to make a reformina, which we have titled "Nuova Tele Renzi" which even goes beyond what my colleague Gasparri had done. And that says a lot. In fact, instead of removing politics - the parties, rather than politics - from within the RAI, we threw hands and feet at it. Synthesizing, the new RAI will be a rib of the so-called Italicum. Before we go into the substance of the measure, I would like to stress what happened in the Commission, which is something very special. We have held many hearings and all the auditors, who have declared themselves, in their integrity, against this reform - which is heavily opposed - have emphasized one thing in common: once again, the new reform fails to give RAI real independence. I do not want to mention all those who have been audited, but I think it is important to mention one of them all: the President of the European Broadcasting Union (EBU), who - heard, heard - contemplates 75 member countries and 43 associated countries, representing, good or bad, more than a billion users. The President, Mrs Ingrid Deltenre, has declared, creating some embarrassment among the majority colleagues, that - this is written in the report - with this reform Italy would, in fact, be the only great European country in which the head of the company is appointed directly by the Government, even after acceptance by the board of directors. But the focus of his speech was on the duration of the public service mandate, when he said that only in Italy the duration will be as short, that is three years as in Bulgaria. I do not say that, but the President representing European television, with more than a billion users, who said that, with this reform, our country will become like Bulgaria. Congratulations! In his speech, President Gasparri stressed what is really the need for our country, which is what I said at the beginning and which was also recalled by the President of the Council: to have the parties outside the RAI. Of course, Mr Gasparri, that must and should be the case. And it is not particularly difficult: just take the bill presented by the League and several others. First of all, in our draft law we stress one aspect: if we really want RAI to be projected into the future, both modern and in step with our main European state competitors (BBC, Antenna2 and others), it must first of all be privatised by 6 May 2016, making it 49 percent private and 51 percent public. This would be the first step to make the RAI wheelchair independent, even from the economic point of view. The RAI is in fact a buzzard: just think, about the information, that the number of journalists working for the newspapers of the news in European televisions is far less than that of journalists working within the RAI. The question arises spontaneously: are Italians who want to be more informed and Europeans who want to be less or are we who do not understand? The truth is that in order to have information that is not good, however, we must have this system with three news reports that are completely different from each other. On the governance of the RAI also our proposal of law provides that there are seven members of the board of directors, but starting from the initial assumption that the members of the board of directors must not have held political positions in any capacity in the ten years before the appointment, if we want to free the RAI from the parties. When I stop being a senator, so I can't be on the board of directors, of course. In 2025, if the legislature ends tomorrow morning - God willing - I will have this chance. The members of the Board of Directors should be elected first by exalting and giving the right importance to an elected member from the State-Regions Conference representing local authorities. In other words, it should be someone who, within the board of directors, can guarantee what is not guaranteed today, that is, the valorization of regional offices, which are important, but whose news is much more scarce than those of the last private television of the last valley in the province of Sondrio, where the information is more objective and functional to the territory. That is why we expect a member on the board of directors to be appointed by the State-Regions Conference as a guarantee bulwark for local authorities. We expect three members to be voted - or elected or appointed - by the relevant parliamentary committees (i.e. by the majority) and one member to be elected by the National Consumer Council. That, I think, is another strategic aspect. Who does RAI work for? Who are the real owners of RAI, if not consumers? It is not me, it must not be politics or the government on duty, but the citizen-consumer, who pays the canon (the damn canon, on which I will return shortly). Then there is a member - and this is the only fairly acceptable forecast that you have included in your reform - elected by the RAI employee assembly and a member elected by AGCOM, the Telecommunications Guarantee Agency. You then invented other strange things, a cart attached to the carriage, once again to be able to watch the invigilable. Among other things, I would like to make one small point: it is not that this reform is passing so lightly among colleagues in the majority, precisely because of the clearly recognizable contrast between the Prime Minister's statements and what we are about to approve, which are two completely different things. I have no doubt that intellectual honesty recognized by so many of my colleagues in the majority may embarrass the reform of the RAI. I repeat, we have gone even beyond what is unlikely from our point of view. One aspect which we particularly care about and which I want to stress is the issue of the canon, which is wrong and must be abolished. This carriage must walk once and for all with its own legs; it is not possible that, every year, in addition to the canon, there is the chase to the government by Mother RAI to try to bring home additional funding, to produce too often things about which there would be much to say. In the Supervisory Committee we have seen cases that can only happen in our country: for example, that for the same fact of the news seven different television crews have been sent to an Italian city by the RAI leaders, local and national, among other things not dependent, but in collaboration. On this matter a strong stance would be needed, we would miss more! I repeat, seven television crews to do the same service; two, three or four, but seven television crews, with unimaginable expenses! But where do we want to go? Now let's get to the point. The privatization of the RAI would create the conditions for a company, if it wants to be called such, to think of walking with its own legs. Moreover, there is the fact that it must be able to finance itself through a fund fueled with advertising tax, to be distributed to all broadcasters that make public service. The painful note is that in recent years, starting from the Monti government to reach the current government, there has been a truly destabilising action on the important work done by local televisions. I remember that until 2011 there was a guaranteed fund of about 80 million, which concerned local televisions, and in the years after 2011 we had to fight every year to guarantee part of these funds: first 60, then 40, now I think we have dropped to 20 million, to be distributed to local televisions. Such broadcasters perform a great function, but not because they are at the service of the undersigned on my territory or of someone else; they carry out a punctual service on the territory, not to mention the induced: because people work there. You want to shut them down? That's how we close them. Among other things, they are parts of the territory where the transition from analogue to digital does not even guarantee mom RAI anymore. I do not know how many questions I and my colleagues who live on the borders of the empire, where there are side valleys where the canon is to be paid, but RAI is not visible. That's the truth! What the hell country is that? I didn't know how many questions and I even went to talk to a guy in Milan who had to move the antennas. To my fellow citizens, if they don't pay the canon, they seize the car, if that's okay, but the RAI isn't there. It's not everywhere like that. Mr. Undersecretary, unfortunately I live at the borders of the empire and have taken away also the Swiss television we watched, much more serious than Mother RAI: you have obscured it and we no longer see the television of Italian Switzerland, which had a pluralist news service, detached from politics, which really gave us information, especially on certain issues that are dear to our territories. Having said that, I think it is important to stress how, at this delicate moment, when reforms must be made (maybe RAI will not be the most important, but it certainly has its weight), we have missed an opportunity. We declared, not by my mouth, but by my federal secretary, that the League was willing to sit down at a table and write a serious four-handed reform. I cannot be denied, Madam President, as you well remember and the Undersecretary knows, because on the reform of the procurement code (which is an equally important matter, on which we voted in favour in this House, because we have written it with four hands with the Government, in a wise, serious and concrete way) we have come to make a proposal that is decidedly innovative. In the same spirit, we wanted to address the issue of RAI reform: this was not possible. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, finish, please. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). You have presented a text that has been elegantly and sneakyly amended by my colleague Gasparri - and he has done well from his point of view - so we will have a "Tele Renzi gasparrizzata" but in reality we did not do what was to be done and what the President of the Council had guaranteed us: a modern RAI, without the parties within it, independent. It is not true: you entered with hands and feet once again; the charlatan of Florence hit again. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u36	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u37	Madam President, Mr Ranucci, first of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Ranucci, for his detailed and precise report. The media reported that the Government intended to present a decree-law on the RAI and that the President of the Republic would oppose it. If the news were true, we should first thank the President of the Republic who, at least in this case, allowed Parliament to do its work, with serenity and according to the dictates of the Constitution. It seems to me that this law in too many places is based more on Byzantine criteria than on simplification, clarity and, therefore, transparency. What is RAI? RAI is a public limited company owned by the State, technically by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, but practically by the Italians. It seems to me very right that the representatives of the Italians - Parliament: the House and the Senate - should elect those who must administer the RAI. More or less, this has always happened; in different ways, but it has always happened. There have been positive and, in my view, less positive examples. In front of me, our colleague Sergio Zavoli is a very positive episode. He was an excellent president of RAI. Together with the Director General Agnes - who had different political views and different visions of society - they managed the company with great dignity and with great professional competence at a delicate time, the moment of the affirmation of commercial televisions. Italian citizens, thanks to this competition, in the late 1970s and early 1980s, were able to have a free mass of quality programmes: some pleasant, others less, but which represented a real pluralism. Referring to the illustration of our rapporteur and to his conclusion, a not positive example, in my opinion, is the fact that RAI, unlike what happens in Spain, France, Germany, England and countries similar to ours, by decision of the then general manager Cappon, is no longer the main television network to have managed the latest editions of the biggest sporting events: the Olympics and the World football championships. Some matches of the world championships, even those to which Italy was interested, as to play were rival teams of Italy, the Italians could not see them for free. Mr President, this is not an economic issue. The Director General Cappon chose to finance the fiction, where the controls are what they are, and to renounce television rights to these sporting events, to have which Germany, France, England and Spain have paid instead; and the figures are the same for all countries, in the sense that they use the same coefficient and apply it to parameters based on the number of inhabitants and the economic potential of the country. Why did those countries' public televisions afford it and RAI didn't? Because the choice has been made to favour fiction and penalise that part of public service. To me, personally, this seems a bad episode. Let's go to the law. It would be more logical for the seven members of the Management Board to be appointed in number of six by Parliament and one by employees. This is because the Government itself is actually appointed by Parliament. However, it is okay if you want to retain this scheme, but of course it must be borne in mind that the two appointed by the Government obviously represent the majority and, therefore, different weights will have to be used on the other side. The term of office must then be three years, because in all public limited companies in the world the duration is three years. With regard to powers, I invite you to consult the civil codes of Italy, England, France, Spain and to give the Board of Directors the powers of a board of directors which, in fact, is also an executive committee; in fact, being the board of seven members, it is useless to set up the executive committee. Therefore, let us not go looking for byzantineisms, various issues and balances: let us establish that the board of directors has powers similar to those of the executive boards/committees of the vast majority of private companies, or with public participation, more or less all over the world. Between these powers there is also that relating to appointments. In a company that respects itself, the appointments are made 99% by the CEO, but those really apical are the responsibility of the board of directors or the executive committee. In this case, the Executive Board and the Management Board are the same, because, since the Management Board consists not of twenty, but of seven, such must remain. Here is the spirit that this law should inspire. The amendments which tend to bring things back to normal should therefore be accepted and approved, namely that the representatives of the people and Parliament elect the board of directors and the managing director: that these have normal powers, however, what is the point? What sense does it make, Mr President, to say that the appointment must be subject to a mandatory, but not binding, opinion of the Management Board? These things are inspired by the working methods of the Italian Parliament, which the President of the Council rightly wants to streamline: it is then said that the nominations are made by 99% by the managing director, but that 1% - which is crucial - is decided by the board of directors. Let's be clear: can we think that, after a board of seven people has expressed a certain opinion about people, the CEO names them anyway? Do we want to be crazy or make everyone laugh at us? Let us go to simplification, simplicity and normality, in short, to what, in a nutshell, I allow myself to define common sense. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u38	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u39	Madam President, we are talking about Mamma Rai: already in the last parliamentary term, as a League Group, we have been very busy trying to understand what might have been of this society, using all the means that parliamentary activity made available to us, such as amendments, motions and even some legislative proposals, to understand how we could think of something different. We have also worked hard to find out whether the proceeds from RAI's sale could be used to lower public debt and whether RAI's subsidiaries, if they could not actually be put on the market, should be closed. That was the comment that Mr Davide Caparini made on the Court of Auditors' report on RAI. The accounting judges, in fact, have confirmed what the League has always said: where it is not possible to sell to private individuals the companies that orbit in the RAI galaxy, it is necessary to evaluate the liquidation and then focus on the real business of the company, which must be to guarantee the citizens authoritative information, impartial and far from the conditionings of the parties. This leads to the idea that a more prudent management can pass through an opening to the private sector: 51% still public and 49% that can guarantee a different management from the current one. The League Group, as I said, has always been vigilant and attentive on this issue and has also worked a lot in the Commission (our member, Senator Jonny Crosio, who first spoke in general debate, was proof of this). We have also produced some draft legislation, on the contrary, perhaps we have been those who have presented more of them, with regard to the abolition of the RAI subscription fee, on the new organisation of the public radio, television and multimedia system, on the disposal of State participation in the capital of RAI and, not least, on the reform of the public radio, television and multimedia service, which Senator Crosio himself presented together with others. Of the 380 amendments, the League had tabled about 50. My group had been on time on the merits of the law, no obstructionism. Some amendments have been adopted on local televisions, but there are not enough; most of them are likely to be re-presented in this House. Madam President, our "differently RAI" man, Jonny Crosio, who you see behind my back, will see how many of them are presented, so that this law does not go to the label. Let us come to the text of the law, Madam President. It is so much more than our proposal, that we have come to the conclusion that we will have to wait for a new government in order to have a real reform, and that is not the words of the undersigned. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The law entered the Pope's Commission and Gasparri came out of it. In fact, the Gasparri amendments did nothing but produce a new text, which is very similar to a Gasparri-bis, therefore an old Gasparri modified and modified for this purpose, the result of a constant understanding between Gasparri himself and the Undersecretary Giacomelli, which ensured the maintenance of the RAI Supervisory Commission (certainly not peanuts). Another strong statement from the President of the Council: the RAI will forget the old vices of batching. Very well, too bad that then the managing director may propose the directors of network and news, but these may be rejected with the vote of two thirds of the board of directors. Then I ask myself: who will be that CEO who will not agree with the board of directors the appointments he intends to make? Do we really think that the CEO gets shot by a board of directors appointed by the parties? Of course, you can choose whether to get shot by the two chosen by the House, the two chosen by the Senate or the two chosen by the Government (and if they agree, potentially it can be shot by all six put together). To be the end of the lottery, dear my President, we are going through it; we are completely out of the way. We now come to the President, who will have to be voted on by two thirds of the members of the RAI Supervisory Committee. I dare not think of the carousel that will start: a huge party injury, we will be at Las Vegas of the political system for the ability to focus attention on a society like this. In the face of the "bundlings" alone. So, Madam President, this is a reform that seems yet another bluff, a reform that makes Gasparri exult (and if it makes Gasparri exult, it means that we are out of the way). It also suggests a Nazarene-bis, a pact probably more alive than ever. This is a reform that had to keep the parties out of the RAI. But Renzi thought well instead of jumping headlong into this RAI issue and jumped head and foot; but, above all, he put his hands on it. When the President-in-Office of the Council wrote this reform of state television, we considered it a counter-reform in the Commission; when the Gasparri amendments arrived, he was more inspired by Romania - someone has already mentioned it - than Germany or France. We will be the only country in which the head of the RAI company will be appointed by the Government, just as it is the Government that decides its removal according to subjective parameters and clearly to strictly political reasoning. Someone in Europe will certainly smile, given that the values that inspire other state televisions are the universality and independence of the message; values that are absolutely not covered in this reform and we do not even know where to go looking for them. On the subject of RAI, our "different RAI" here behind my back made statements rather strong, strong, but that struck in the sign: We must note that even on the reform of the RAI exactly as is the case for Italicum the majority of the Government behaves arrogantly and unilaterally. "Well, we have proof of this, since I understand that there is no minority rapporteur but even two majority rapporteurs (on this point we will return later). Continua Crosio: "The League has, with a sense of responsibility, presented its proposals: two draft laws, thus demonstrating the greatest desire for collaboration. Unfortunately, as usual, Renzi wants to impose his own will and it is with this spirit that we will arrive at the usual relentless reform....................................................................................................................................................................................... Of course, Renzi had to make a clear proposal, which was to pass through the Commissions in a normally serious way, so that the oppositions could also make a good contribution. The oppositions? Sure. If the aim was to offer information finally free and modern I believe that none of the opposition would have refused. This did not happen, clearly; the attitude was precisely to follow the same principle used for the other reforms: again, a departure on the wrong foot. I was saying, two speakers of majority and none of opposition; slap the minorities, and the League certainly did not offer any of its cheeks. The topic of the RAI canon was mentioned earlier, namely the tax on television sets; a tax called subscription. It is a matter that has always left me very perplexed; it is as if one day they make me pay for my subscription to San Siro even if I do not go to see the games. We wonder if it still makes sense to talk about the monopoly of public service. We had also asked very simply that for over 75 people with low incomes and who live alone we could get an exemption from this tax (more than from this subscription). In this case, too, spades have been answered. On the other hand, the habit, which we have had even in the past days, in taxing pensioners even with quite low incomes is quite normal for this Government. Since the good Renzi became Premier he continues to talk about a revolution, and he used this term also for the RAI issue, but in reality he did nothing but a little'maquillage to a law that had already been written by the subject who then had the tricks in hand. It is a carriage, as it has been defined, good or just for party propaganda. A carrot that in its various facets, or nets, recalls a cartoon in a newspaper several years ago, which represented a circus in which the safety net placed under the trapezeists was broken; a second cartoon, also broken, had been placed, and then a third one had been placed. The question that came to me spontaneously was: didn't the first two nets have to be fixed before putting the third? It's a cartoon that I've been impressed with, even when I wasn't misguidedly political. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Perhaps this is the ugly draft law under consideration, which comes to the Commission in a certain way and tries to get out of it in another way, with people like the members of our Group, Senator Jonny Crosio - a squeaky one like there are few - capable of putting his finger in the plague and with the big salt - what is used for steaks and ribs - always at hand. That probably didn't please those who have to confront him. I thank him now, since I will not be able to do so later, for the work he has done in the Commission and for his ability to sum up, with regard to a society that we have not always loved, which has enormous potential, but which forces many Italians to subscribe to other private televisions - which I do not mention - and which perhaps, under that sky, they see more serious things. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciampolillo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u41	President, colleagues, members of the Government, I do not think it is wrong to say that this draft RAI reform law is actually intended solely to change the system of election or, better, to appoint those who will be responsible for guiding the public information system in Italy. Our dear President-in-Office of the Council, as usual, tries to ensnare the citizens with false proclamations and without any practical feedback, imagining that he can continue to deceive a country, which, as demonstrated by the recent regional elections, has already relegated it to the past of the less noble politics of the last twenty years. The Government, again on this occasion, contradicting the flagrant requests for renewal of the RAI, confirms its hypocrisy, proposing in fact the old scheme of political lottification of appointments, depressing the demands and expectations of those who seriously and without masters imagine that they can make a contribution to the cultural and social growth of Italy. One cannot be surprised then if the boys are more attentive to teleshopping or to the private life of some alleged throneist or some veil or olgettina, rather than trying to understand the whys of the many contradictions of our world. Once again, politics affirms its supremacy over the citizens, with a government presenting in Parliament a fake reform, which is essentially based on an absolute Renza dogma, that is, the Government intended as a command, as a biech and authoritarian exercise of the will to impose its own choices. The only end is to get your hands on the RAI and control it. In short, it is a bit like it was done with the school: we identify a subject that must command and of course we foresee a system of appointment of the same, that assures the President of the Council the absolute control over the public information system. This is how the figure of this new fantomatic CEO is born, who, behind the false and hypocritical millantata search for a model of greater managerial efficiency and decision-making autonomy, in concrete terms represents the Trojan horse of the President of the Council, through which, behind the apparent mantle of managerial professionalism, it is possible to proceed to the appointment and the control of the headmasters and the directors of network. This is why, despite the claims of new and capable figures, our proposal to exclude from the board those who held public, political or trade union positions in the previous seven years has not been supported. The reality is that the government and the old politics cannot do without their public singers, the court chamberlains who can reassure Italians every evening telling them not to worry if young people do not find work, if the poor are constantly increasing, if schools and hospitals are dilapidated, because the important thing is to be able to say, indeed continue to say: It's a good thing that Silvio - indeed excuse me - is less than a bad thing that Matthew is there. == [[Applause from Senator Puglia]] But let's try to imagine if there was an RAI free from the control of the government and the parties. What would have happened in Italy after the release of the intercepts between the then mayor of Florence, and the aspiring President of the Council, and nothing less than the commander-in-chief of the Finance Guard? A normal conversation between friends laughing at the blackmailing position of the President of the Republic pro tempore, laughs at the then President of the Council in office and imagines, in order to happen the latter, even punishing him by sending him to do the new President of the Republic. Certainly an ordinary scenario, as confirmed by the absolute silence of our network directors, in which the highest figure of the State is treated as a pawn to be managed, almost to be blackmailed, to pave the way for the ambitions of power of a boy who thinks he can continue to mock the Italians. It did not seem to me that the information system was aware of the seriousness of these words, which in any other country would lead to the resignation of the Premier. President Mattarella himself didn't seem to notice anything. As is the case here in the Senate, where there is no scandal of the parliamentarians of majority voting illegitimately in the place of others, but of us poor spokesmen of the 5 Star Movement, who allow us to resume these lestophants. Thus the news did not deal with the scandal of the content of what the President of the Council said and the singularity of his confidencies to a commander of the Forces of the Order, but only the inopportunity of the diffusion of these intercepts. And then how can one be surprised if the RAI reform project is nothing more than a new clever one to get his hands directly on the control of public televisions through the figure of a man only in command, with absolute powers of fact and of course of appointment substantially directed by the Head of Government? The 5 Star Movement has proposed a board of directors composed of 5 members that operate full-time and without any connection with the parties and with the Government and with a duration able to offer a long-term vision of the public service. A vision of renewal able to ensure independence from political power through a system of choice certainly far from the one provided for in the bill. Italy needs free and independent public information. Italy therefore needs a free and independent board of directors, able to offer a pluralistic and autonomous vision and to give a strategy of freedom and strategic openness towards the future to the entire radio and television system. How can one think that the government appoints who should ensure free criticism and information also about the work of the government itself? What are the guarantees for citizens? And then I would also like to point out that the future of young people cannot be placed only in the hands of cold managers at the service of the government. We would have expected a reform with actions also in the field of technology, and above all on the use of the new telecommunications systems. And nothing. Perhaps it is necessary to remember our history and the ability of Italy, through art, culture and science, to trace a new future and to give something deeper than a mere expense account, as usual to the citizens. On this too, the 5 Star Movement is ready to give voice to the citizens, with the simplicity and pride of those who know how to understand, for the common good, that it is time to build a radio and television system that is truly at the service of the citizens and not of the parties or, even worse, of this Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u42	Senator Cantini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, those of me who were born at the end of the 1950s have a childhood marked by an unforgettable event: the arrival of television, first in the country bars, then in the homes of wealthy families and then finally in our homes, in working families. The RAI was for many of us a great opportunity to discover the world, until then for the most unknown or imagined only through books. It was a great opportunity to know, to laugh, to have fun. It is in RAI that are born characters that have made the history of our country: directors, singers, actors, comedians. And also politics, with television, was able to reach the homes of all Italians. There is no doubt that television and RAI have played a decisive role in the growth and formation of Italians, in the construction of the cultural and social identity of our country, just as there is no doubt if we say that today RAI has lost that character, that role and that function. Today we live in the society of communication; we are flooded with information, messages, images, but with this we no longer have a widespread culture; we have no more aware citizens, indeed we risk having only so many individuals who struggle to recognize themselves in a community and in a common project. The RAI must therefore contribute to this. To make it change, we politicians must change understanding that today our country needs a state-of-the-art and innovative public service and that is why we must free RAI from that Italian evil called bureaucracy and division. In other words, we need more politics with capitals and no less politics and more willingness to change. The revolution is a perpetual challenge to the incrustations of habit, to the insolence of uncontested authority, to the complacent idolization of self and of the myths imposed by the media. For this reason the revolution must be a normal event, a continuous renewal, a continuous reflection and do, discuss and do. So said a man, a teacher who has made public service important to millions of people. I'm talking about Master Manzi. Let me quote him to tell us what our work in the Commission has also been. The revolution - I said - must be a normal event, a reflection and a do, discuss and do. Doing is not only a Renzian verb, as is also believed, irritating about it in recent times. To make is the principle and the cornerstone of any will to change. The Commission's work has produced the text that we are bringing to this House today. It is a fact that is largely shared or largely shared; it is not wrong; it is a fact that wants to remember and bring back the purpose and reason of a public radio and television service. It is part of this policy of doing the reform of the management of the company, giving autonomy and power to the CEO, who will have to be at that professional and personal level to make us remember and not regret illustrious characters who have made the RAI great. One of them is our colleague Sergio Zavoli. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Airola.]] AIROLA (M5S). Renzi should listen to him, too. CANTINI (PD). We are talking about a policy that seeks, as we did in the Commission, to find solutions together so that the future board of directors can be, in the sum of the nominations made by Chamber, Senate, Government and RAI workers, qualified and plural; of a policy that puts in a transparent way the curricula of the aspiring directors to the public judgment because the curricula submitted to the Chamber and the Senate will be published on the institutional sites and made public before the beginning of the analysis, as happens following the approval of one of mine and other amendments incorporated in the bill today in the Chamber, which establishes clear norms of incompatibility for the managing director. However, with this measure we make only a first part of the work that is needed, but it was urgent that, since the renewal of the board already expired, we could give the sign of discontinuity and above all outline the lines of the reform project. Today we approve the rules for the renewal of governance, but we will have to proceed with the reform of the canon and the new service contract. Professor Pitruzzella, President of the Competition and Market Authority during the hearing in our Commission, reminded us that technological developments and the development of on-line audiovisual services, although very important, have not yet affected the centrality of the traditional television sector both from the social and economic point of view: television is in fact still the largest Italian publishing industry, the first medium for advertising investments and the time devoted by the public to television grows. The sector still plays a central role in the content production chain. Given this scenario, it is therefore important to start with giving RAI a new clear guide, recognized, transparent, efficient and responsible: a head company able to make decisions, but also to be called to respond to it and to offer a new editorial language that is accessible to everyone, but at the same time content and growth, and that is the fly of our production model and the beauty of our territory, the products that are born from this territory and the enchantment that every corner of our country offers. We need an editorial line that is not redundant and that can eliminate unnecessary costs, even with the reform of newspapers. This is a necessary modernisation, aimed at adapting the production model of news to international standards, with fewer publications and more production of reports and documentaries. Of course, the proof if we succeed in our aim will be given when we can verify the quality of the new appointments and the validity of the project, the mission and the new schedule. But it will depend on us if we can be a result of what we have written in this provision. In fact, in the bill we are debating here, the profile to which we must inspire appointments is clear: professionals, qualified women and men, the best. The mission we are inspired by is also clear. If we can live up to the challenge that we launch with this bill to ourselves and to the country, we will have started and partially implemented another of the strategic reforms for the country. For this reason too, we have sought convergence in the Commission. In fact, we are stubbornly convinced that important reforms must be done together, because only in this way will we be able to get our country out of this sad phase in which the search for confrontation, hatred and the desire to destroy compared to the will to build still prevail. We need to build and on this we should use all our energies, divide, discuss and confront ourselves, to build a RAI that can make culture and does not adapt to the lowest levels of the market, but that is, through its own productions, an engine of excellence and a point of rebirth of the economy of our country, through that cultural market that is so much talked about, but sometimes without objective results. The RAI can and must acquire a new international profile, including through the production of English-language programs and the creation of a cultural channel to match the best European examples. With this measure we take another step towards change. So much remains to be done - we don't hide it - but I am sure that only from this and other labors will be born the country we want: a better country, more just and modern, avant-garde and example in Europe and in the world [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u44	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u45	Madam President, reading this measure, this pseudo-reform, you have the feeling that it is one of the many reforms announced in a very robust way by the President of the Council, Renzi, but that then, in the contents, they are really little. There is a plan that goes through this Government, which is to carry out a thousand endless measures in all areas of public life - from school reform, labour reform, RAI reform, constitutional reforms - whose only constant is to demonstrate to the country that there is a very intense activity on the part of the Government and Prime Minister Renzi, who wants to change things and who intends to show that his decision-making is the right way to improve the situation in the country. However, in the content of these reforms there are, often and willingly, constant elements. The first is the lack of change these pseudo-reforms will bring. They do not affect the situation of the country and do not affect the quality of life of citizens. This reform is one of many examples of our conviction. On the other hand, there is another constant element, namely the desire to concentrate power, which should belong to the people, in the hands of the Executive and the parties more generally. We have seen this with constitutional reform and the electoral reform of the House, which in fact does not allow citizens to choose their representatives, which assigns the majority prize no longer to the coalition, but to the individual party that should win the elections. We have seen this with the reform of the Senate, in which behind considerations related to the reduction of the number of representatives, and therefore of the possible savings that serve as a mirror for the loodoles for public opinion, in fact the possibility of electing their representatives and the concentration of powers is taken away from the people. In fact, with these reforms in fact the Government, the majority, the Democratic Party wants to obtain the possibility, winning the elections in the House, to elect alone the President of the Republic and the bodies of guarantee and control, the CSM and the Constitutional Court. Also this pseudo-reform is part of this design, because in the contents, in fact, the strategy and nature of RAI are not changed, bringing it back to be a public service useful to the country and citizens and guaranteeing free information. There has been, for the umpteenth time, concentrated on a single fundamental theme, that is on the method of election of the board of directors, of the managing director, of the directors of the networks. This is essentially the reform carried out by Renzi. We see these changes periodically, we see that the Management Board should now move from nine to seven members. In Renzi's announcements it was said that politics and parties would lose power to control the nominations and then in the composition part it is seen that two of the seven members will be appointed by the Chamber, two by the Senate and two by the Government; therefore on seven members six will be appointed by the politics and certainly four by the majority, thus guaranteeing those who win the elections the possibility to control the RAI, as always has been done and how it seems impossible to change. So don't tell us, Renzi, about reforms that represent change. Its reforms represent the preservation, continuity and arrogance with which it exercises power; an arrogance that shows us every day: either you are with him or against him, there is no possibility for Parliament to influence the choices, there is no debate within its party, where dissenters are put out of the Commissions or silenced, with the continuous and constant threat of elections. This is the method of governing the current President of the Council, which we do not appreciate and which we do not consider positive, and which above all is not linked to concrete and effective results to improve the conditions of the country. If there were only one man in command who does something useful for the country, it would be a situation that we would not like, but that at least could have some positive aspects. On the contrary, we are in the worst possible situation: an authoritarian attitude towards Parliament and total nullity in the pseudo-reforms that are being carried out by the current Government. Nothing will change, therefore, with the board of directors so composed, controlled by the majority, that it can appoint the managing director, the president of the RAI and consequently, cascade, also the directors of the networks and the entire chain of command RAI. We had put forward alternative proposals and we could discuss our vision, which was linked to another consideration: if we really want to remove or otherwise, in order not to have too optimistic or utopian attitudes, to limit the role and control of parties and politics on the RAI, we had to bring into the board of directors figures who were emanating other subjects that could have an important role. In fact, there will only be an external component to politics in the current majority view, which is a representative of RAI employees. We did not want to consider other proposals, some of which have been made by our Group, aimed at providing for the inclusion, for example, of a representative of the consumer association, of a representative of AGCOM, and possibly also of a representative of the local authorities, thus creating a mixed composition and not only party that would have probably led to a better situation, not focused on clientelism and political friendship, but on broader criteria of respect for the true users of this service that are citizens and all those who periodically and daily tune on the RAI channels. This was not done, therefore: power to parties, power to the majority, power to the government. Another issue that has not been clearly and clearly implemented within this measure is the delegation of RAI funding. I remember that in the recent stability law of last December, there seemed to be a willingness on the part of the Government to decide for a different way of financing the public service. An amendment had to be made at the last moment, but then it was decided not to do so, because it was not yet ready to make a clear and clear proposal. Other months have passed and we are now with a measure within which there is a very general delegation, in which we do not understand the ways and directions of this funding that Parliament should allocate to the Government. There is an excess of delegation on a very sensitive subject on which there should have been an open debate between Parliament and the Government, which will not be there, simply because the Government only requests delegation on this subject; it does not express the guidelines and therefore assumes the responsibility to make decisions in a completely autonomous way. It is a subject that is very close to our political group, which has fought in the past on this matter. We believe that it is now anachronistic to imagine a property tax on the television set compulsory for all citizens, even those who do not want to use the public service of RAI. Because in fact it is a full tax, one of the infinite taxes applied by the State to bind the lives of citizens to this eternal activity of payment of jumps, of tariffs, and so on. The State in recent years has carried out a main activity: to add taxes to taxes, with a fantasy that is honestly extraordinary. It is a pity that it has not provided for its application in so many other aspects that are much more useful than the daily lives of citizens. We believe that it would be right for citizens to be free to choose whether to pay this tax and therefore to use the service. It is not correct that the freedom to use television sets for other purposes is precluded, for example for self-financing local or commercial televisions, or pay-TVs where there is a clear relationship between the user of the service and those who make a commercial proposal. This is an unacceptable situation which we do not share, but which we fear will be perpetuated by the Government through the delegation that Parliament will grant it. Another issue that has not been touched on at all is the revision of the role of the public service. Now the RAI has become a company with an absolutely generalist programming, which has totally adapted to the programming of commercial televisions: there is no longer any difference, there is only difference in the fee, in the control of politics, in an excess of uncontrolled expenditure and, therefore, in a poor use of public resources; but from the point of view of the service that is guaranteed to the citizen, there is no difference. The only differences, therefore, are negative. We would like a different public service, in which the palimpsests were not of commercial type, now almost exclusively dedicated to entertainment, but that could offer, instead, the dissemination of cultural, educational, sporting programs and the promotion of the territory and tourism. RAI doesn't do enough from this point of view. Our country has extraordinary beauties, with so many differences, that are not highlighted by its programming; it is a weak point, because we should push our fellow citizens to have knowledge of the richness of our territory, to take advantage of it, becoming tourists within their country. Instead, the palimpsests - as I said - are almost exclusively commercial, which is something in some ways, in front of which the citizen does not have much choice; there is a homologation with private televisions that certainly does not make the presence of a public service paying in our country any more significant. Furthermore, the relationship with local televisions is not treated with adequate attention - even if it is not the main subject of this reform. As one of my colleagues pointed out, in the past there was a focus on pluralism, which we believe to be fundamental, a wealth for the country; instead, the Government has increasingly reduced the resources available to local broadcasters over time and this represents another negative aspect, which we do not share. In essence, there are many shadows about this provision. Above all, it is a measure that, beyond the content (which are few), stands out and is highlighted by the lack of clear, clear reforms, useful to improve the service of which Italian citizens should benefit in a wider, more effective and more comprehensive way. For all these reasons, I do not think that we can at all express a positive assessment of the reform that we are discussing in this deserted House, as is unfortunately often the case. The government gives orders to Parliament and Parliament no longer takes initiatives; there is a reversal of roles: the Commission now also plays the role of a legislative body. This is a situation in which it seems that the only dynamic in this House is to move from one group to another by some Members; in which the majority fears only one thing, namely that we have to return to the elections; in which there are no more content, there are no more true reforms and there are absolutely marginal issues that are not affecting the quality of life of our citizens. This reform will have no practical and concrete effect on the quality of life and on the difficulties faced by our fellow citizens, but it intervenes on an issue that is exclusively of interest to Renzi, the parties and the management of power. We are not dealing with issues related to the economy or the need to reduce public spending and tax pressure. These issues, now, are out of the discussion of these classrooms because they are difficult to deal with, but they are also the only important ones, the only ones that could lead to a real and real change for our community, for those who every day look at with detachment to politics. The policy that is not concerned with them, but that is all focused on the internal balances of these palaces, on the will to preserve power and perpetuate over time its presence in these Aules, now with a total detachment from the reality of every day outside of here. There are no real reforms here, but there is a distorted view of reality, with an optimism that now leaves the time it finds and that is no longer even taken seriously by our citizens. A relationship of trust has broken between us, politics, and the country and perhaps this Government is one of the most responsible for this breakdown. Renzi was first seen with a certain sympathy from many Italian citizens, hoping that there would be newness in him, change. In the reality of the facts, it has been seen that Renzi is also very little thing. He is simply a man taken from himself, from his pride, from his presumption, from his ambitions, who tries to deceive anyone who listens to him, but who, in reality, is now only deceiving himself. The country is far away from those first few months. Public opinion is far from the Renzi-Pensiero and today too, unfortunately, we are demonstrating that this House is not dealing with real problems, but with a revisiting of the composition of the RAI Board of Directors, demonstrating that we are missing another good opportunity to address much more important issues and becoming a cause (we, unfortunately, out of necessity, because we do not have the levers of command) of this pulling between palaces and people. Therefore, I should like to end my speech by hoping that this debate will end with some concrete result through the amending action, with some real changes that our representative in the Commission, Senator Crosio, has tried to promote and that we hope at least in this House will find some positive results.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u46	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u49	GATTI (PD). Madam President, in line with what is happening in the House of Deputies, at the end of the sitting many of us (and I hope many of us) will speak on the issue of women's right to use the so-called women's option to retire by 31 December 2015. It's a long-standing situation. There is an INPS circular which, in our opinion contra legem, has decided that not to mature the right, but to effectively retire should be dealt with by 31 December 2015, also taking into account the one-year window for private sector workers and 18 months of the public sector. Before reading, as we are doing in both the House and the Senate, the communications from the INPS committees of different Provinces and Regions that have spoken about this, I would like to remind you of the Act of the Senate 149, which ended with a contemporary resolution of the House and the Senate, regarding this problem. I would like to remind the Government of its commitment to urge the INPS, also in order to avoid disputes already initiated and future, to revise point 7.2 of Circular No 35 of 2012 on the winding-up of pension treatment for female workers under experimental arrangements. For them, the mobile window for pension treatment and life expectancy should not apply, but the simple maturity of the personal and contribution requirements remains valid by 31 December 2015, as clearly defined by law. I would just like to say that a great deal of litigation is developing and that there is the women's option committee that has promoted a class action: applying this option to the current legislation, women agree to retire with the calculation contributory completion. That means we're going to have a clean-up on the part of the administration. The INPS press release, of which I am reading, shows that there is a very little institutional change between the Ministry of Labour and MEF on the opinion to be given to the resolution of a problem such as this. This is the statement of the provincial committee of the INPS of Pisa, which is the Province where I was elected and resided: The INPS Provincial Committee of Pisa, meeting on 17 February 2015, having regard to the provisions of article 1, paragraph 9, of law 23 August 2004, n. 243, the workers have the possibility to obtain experimentally, until 31 December 2015, the right to access retirement pension treatment according to the rules of calculation of the contributory system, in the presence of a contributory seniority equal to or greater than 35 years and of an age equal to or greater than 57 years for employees and 58 years for self-employed workers, so-called female option; considering that Article 24, paragraph 14, of decree-law n. 201 of 2011, converted with amendments by law n. 214 of 2011, Fornero law, has saved this option, leaving the female option in force with the previous rules; verified that the INPS, with circulars nn. 35 and 37 of 2012, application of Law No 24 of 2011, has instead changed in a restrictive sense, establishing that for the maturation of the right to retirement is considered both the increase of the age linked to the hope of life, and the system of the mobile windows, and consequently is fixed at 31 December 2015 the beginning of the pension treatment, instead of the maturation of the requirement; hopes that the competent bodies decide to revise the indications expressed in Circular No 35 of 2012, maintaining the date of maturity of the right to 31 December 2015 or establishing an extension of the date of departure. Madam President, I hope that this long-standing issue will find a solution, partly because on 31 December 2015 a number of pension applications already submitted will arrive soon and lie at the INPS, even if they are accepted with reservation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u52	PADUA (PD). Madam President, I would like to take advantage of this moment to point out once again a subject which I have dealt with many times and for which I tabled a motion at the beginning of June, aimed at turning the spotlight once again on the consequences not always exclusively positive of the revision of judicial geography. As it will be remembered, the Senate, with the conversion of Decree-Law No 338 of 2011, later converted into Law No 148 of 2011, delegated the Government to adopt appropriate acts for the reorganization of the territorial distribution of judicial offices, in order to achieve expenditure savings and efficiency gains. In Article 8, it was established that, for specific functional organizational reasons, the Minister of Justice could arrange the use at the service of the courts for a period not exceeding five years from the date of effectiveness of the decree and that he could therefore dispose of the properties owned by the State or municipal property concerned by building interventions financed under Article 19 of Law No 119 of 1981, used as the service of the judicial offices. The judicial review policy was based on the criteria for rationalising the public expenditure of the courts themselves, aimed at achieving expenditure savings and efficiency gains. However, at least for certain judicial structures on national territory, it is clear that the existing infrastructure situation has not been properly taken into account, since offices of new or refurbished courts have been closed, for which the logic of the so-called spending review, linked to the increase in the efficiency of the services, does not seem to have been found. This applies, for example, to the former courts of Modica, Bassano del Grappa or Chiavari. With regard to the Sicilian court, for example, it is pointed out that the property where today the court of Ragusa has its seat (compromising that of Modica and the detached section of Vittoria) is structurally inadequate to cope with the heavy occurrences achieved at the aforementioned trial, to the point that, in order to give answers to the new question of justice, the Municipality of Ragusa had to indicate another structure, the former INA palace, for the purpose of using the premises for the judicial functions. At the same time, however, it has been renewed - and it is here the paradox - to use definitively the existing palace of justice of the former tribunal of Modica, completed in 2004 with a cost of about 12 million euros, placed in the vicinity of the main artery of road and realized precisely for this destination. In essence, it has been closed, so far without any use destination, a modern, functional, anti-seismic, equipped with a large car park, served by all the most advanced technological and telematic systems and in the condition to best accommodate the judicial functions in the territory. Among other things, both the headquarters of the court of Ragusa and the one acquired later, as evidenced by numerous journalistic sources, have recently been affected by collapses of calcinacci or panels from the ceilings. And, to use this building, you spend about one million and 300,000 euros a year. I understand my time is running out, but this is the message. Since corrective mechanisms are envisaged, if the analysis of the review of judicial geography reveals inconsistencies of this kind, these implementing criteria have not been prepared. I have tabled a question signed by 29 other senators, as well as myself. It is therefore important, because this is a very serious problem. If it is necessary, as was necessary, to spend for a review, I do not think that there is any quality of savings if we do not use new buildings and instead spend resources on rentals. In order not to do a bell tower, because I wouldn't want it to read like this, I only mention the experience of Chiavari (also there it is told about this)... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Padua. PADUA (PD). Finally, Madam President, forgive me. As I said, there people with disabilities or who are moving from distant municipalities must even use the ambulance to go to the court, having the new structure closed. It seems to me that we must have the courage to see things again. As the time is running out, because we will no longer be able to speak in mid-September, then I will report it further to the House and I hope, Madam President, that you will take charge of this. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u55	MUNERATUS (Misto-FAL). Madam President, two days ago, in Villanova del Ghebbo, a small town in the province of Rovigo near Lendinara, an African foreigner panicked a quiet residential neighborhood, shaking a stick, screaming and threatening passers-by. A crazy gesture, but not isolated. He had already struck the madness of this street vendor and, thanks to the laxity of this country and the wide sleeve of our cumbersome judicial system, this man is free to do damage and humiliate the quiet residents of Villanova del Ghebbo. The fact was taken up by a guy with his smartphone and, on YouTube and Facebook, it's getting viral: he went around the web. Villanova del Ghebbo doesn't look good and our country doesn't look good. The cause of the crazy gesture is that the stranger was not satisfied with the few coins received as a gift from a resident of the area, who gave them to him to leave. The boy was too insistent: he sold items that the gentleman did not want to buy. Is it a crime not to need brooms and umbrellas? The people feel mocked; they must lower their heads in front of immigrants who act like masters: this is the message that is passing and that triggers a rampant sense of anger in the common people. What is needed immediately is an intensification of the presence of the Forces of Order, especially in low-density territories such as Polesine, the Province of Rovigo. It is in these realities that crime, theft and violence succeed in proliferating unpunished, precisely because our agents have too vast a territory to control and the operating units are too few. Another thing we need to do right away is to immediately give the temporary humanitarian permit to those who are landing waves on our shores. Invasion cannot be just our problem: Europe must take care of it. But maybe the Renzi government is afraid of making Merkel and the other powerful angry. With the temporary humanitarian permit you will see that most of those who land on our coasts will take the road to Germany, France and Northern Europe. We need courage and will to defend our territories, our people. The courage you're showing you don't have. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u58	BOTTICS (M5S). Madam President, after the first evidence of the presence of thallium, a very toxic heavy metal, of 11 September 2014 in the area of Valdicastello in Pietrasanta, province of Lucca, the inhabitants of the Versilia municipality have not yet found peace. Initially the presence of this substance was found only in the aqueduct of the fraction closest to the polluted source but then, due to an approximate management of the problem by Gaia Spa, the local water manager, the problem spread to the historic center. There have been successive orders of the mayor that prevented the use of water coming from the municipal aqueduct and began, with the intervention of the Tuscany Region, the epidemiological investigation to evaluate the real state of health of the citizens. In fact, there are two studies: the first carried out by the local health unit, with participation in regional work tables, and the second by the National Research Council of Pisa. At the beginning of this month the first worrying results came out: urine tests confirm thallium poisoning for 40 percent of the cases evaluated, while hair analysis for 60 percent of the cases evaluated. These alarming numbers give rise to a spontaneous question: what is the real state of health of the citizens of the area affected by this calamity? Is it intended to verify over time the evolution, from the health and environmental point of view, of the case tallio? It is news of yesterday that the MIUR has awarded a funding of more than 500,000 euros to the researcher Cristian Biagioni of the University of Pisa, winner of the SIR program banned at national level, to conduct a study to acquire further data on mineralogy and geochemistry of the Versilia area, in order to better understand the mechanisms of release and dispersion of thallium in the environment. So, the matter is known, known. Already on 21 November 2014, the House of Deputies presented an urgent question to Minister Lorenzin, to whom no reply has yet been given, informing the Minister of the worrying picture that has occurred in the city of Pietrasanta since the beginning of September 2014 and asking to establish a legal limit for thallium in drinking water and to insert this element in the metals to be sought, since no one is currently looking for it and, when it is found, we do not know what to do. On July 8 of this year, the newly elected mayor Mallegni, currently suspended by the Severino law, issued a new order not to use drinking water for food purposes. Today, in synergy with the local and regional councillors of the 5 Star Movement, who yesterday asked for explanations and submitted a question to the Regional Council, they prepared a new question for Minister Lorenzin, with the hope that this time they will respond, because the citizens of Pietrasanta can no longer wait. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u61	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, you have been magnanimous with everyone, but I shall try to recover with a very brief speech. I would like to point out that in Vado Ligure the Tirreno Power coal plant works with emissive values much higher than those made available by the best possible techniques, thanks to the facilities of politicians and regional, provincial and municipal administrators, to which two things are contested such as the abuse of office and the manslaughtered disaster aggravated. The prosecutor investigates 497 abnormal deaths, 2.097 admissions for respiratory and cardiovascular diseases and 586 admissions of children for respiratory diseases. All this produces a profit of about one billion euros. From the published intercepts emerges a clear organization to build an ad hoc norm, which contains a more favorable interpretation of the Tyrrhenian Power. In the intercepts are often cited not Totò 'u curtu or other known delinquents, but two distinguished members of this Government: Undersecretary De Vincenti and Minister Guidi. The first seems to have worked to circumvent the environmental requirements and to block, through the CSM, the holder of the investigations, the second to favor the Tirreno Power in the circumventing of the norms, together with the former minister of justice Paola Severino, who happens now is the lawyer of Tirreno Power. I put this picture, very nice and nice, and I inform the Presidency that today I will place an oral question, with an urgent nature, in order to know, above all, three things: if the President of the Council and also the Ministers know these facts, if the presence in the Government of the Undersecretary De Vincenti is still compatible and, above all, if it is necessary - as I think it is - to report to Parliament on the actual fulfilment, in accordance with legality and honour, of the institutions that these people represent. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u62	Senator Candiani, I want to remind you that we have already established that in order to intervene at the end of the session you must communicate your intention within half an hour of the closing of the session itself. As happened before for Senator Paglini, I then register her as first in the speeches to be carried out at the end of the next session.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u63	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-486.ana.u64	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 21 July, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 12.57).
