ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:03 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u4	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:09 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2111. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the Government put the question of trust in the approval of amendment 1,9000, which is entirely a substitute for the text of the draft stability law. I give the floor to the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Tonini, to report to the Assembly on the financial coverage profiles of amendment 1,9000.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u9	Madam President, the Commission met earlier and examined the texts. As far as financial cover profiles are concerned, there is no problem. The most important point to make, from the political point of view too, is the full correspondence of the text of the maxi amendment proposed by the Government to the document approved by the Commission. This has been confirmed and - it could be said - consolidated a practice that is becoming a constitutional convention, in particular in this branch of Parliament. It is in fact in this branch of Parliament that it was first tested in the 14th legislature, with what was then called the Pera-Morando praise. A practice for which the Government puts trust (essentially, therefore with a vote to take or leave) on the text approved by the Budget Commission; therefore, on a parliamentary text and not a purely governmental text. In this respect, the maxi amendment 1,9000 reproduces exactly the text approved by the Budget Commission in recent days. With regard to the comments made by the General Accounting Office of the State and which condition the positive opinion, these observations are minimal from the point of view of the content of the text. We are based on the rewording of eight paragraphs and the deletion, due to lack of coverage, of only paragraph 466. The Commission shared these comments and these conditions and, therefore, asked the Government to reproduce them in the text of the maxi amendment. Since I have the floor, Madam President, allow me to use it one last minute to thank the senators for the great work they have done in the Budget Committee over the past few days. We managed to achieve the result, that is to say to produce a text approved by the Commission that could be the text taken by the Government as a maxi amendment. This is due, as many colleagues said yesterday, first of all to the extraordinary commitment of the two rapporteurs and to the active cooperation of all the senators of majority and opposition. I want to acknowledge the opposition groups that they have made an intelligent, merit-based, constructive and positive opposition. Of course, the final judgement on the maneuver is different, but we have written together a good page of parliamentary work. Of course, thanks also go, as always, to our offices, both those of the Commission and of the Budget Service, who have assured a great deal of support, as always, without time or other limits, working really day and night together with the senators. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Azzollini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u10	He asked the Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance Morando to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u11	Madam President, the Government agrees to amend the text according to the instructions now put forward by the President of the Commission and to receive the unanimous opinion of the Commission itself. Therefore, the Government accepts both the proposal to delete paragraph 466 and the proposal to make the corrections indicated by President Tonini.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u12	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago, Matteo Renzi declared that the time of the "trademark laws" was over. He declared it, and then he did exactly the opposite. Then, as now, because it is in the DNA of the majority the use of public money for territorial needs of their individual parliamentarians. In this way, they repay the consent they received for being elected. Which could be good, if they don't do it with the phony money of the citizens. For this purpose, in the folds of the budget, an ad hoc fund of at least 300 million euros has been made available - the so-called assault on diligence - despite the fact that since 2009 it is forbidden to include localistic and micro-sectoral interventions in the law of stability. But you don't care about the law, because otherwise you would also lose the crumb of consent that remains, bought with the clientele system. In short, despite the ventilated reforms and various demolitions to which some unsubstantiated elector had given credit, it seems that this misconception has not changed even a comma: the money for these "marchettes" never lacks. However, the draft stability law under consideration will be remembered not only for the assault on diligence, but at least for three or four more reasons. Firstly, the measure facilitates the work of evaders and recyclers (including the organized underworld), thanks - of course - to the increase of the roof to the use of cash. The second reason is the government's promised support by the 'facilitator', among other things accused in the so-called P3 trial. Of course, I am talking about Denis Verdini, who is always ready to shoot in defense of the majority if some of his colleagues dare to raise their backs, perhaps in exchange for the approval of some embarrassing amendment (we have seen and counted more than one). The third reason is the attempt (for now foiled as a result of the strong denunciation of the 5 Star Movement, but we know well that you will try again in the Chamber of Deputies), of Senator Santini, on behalf of the Democratic Party, to relaunch, as if there were need, gambling in our country, cutting local authorities every possibility of regulation. In fact, the amendment in question has been withdrawn, but not without shame. The fourth reason why the maneuver will be remembered is the cuts - so many cuts - on all the essential services to citizens, including perhaps those to the machinery of justice and the management of prisons. I am Venetian and only a few days ago a shock report about the prison in Vicenza was taken from all the newspapers in my city. Worms were found in prison guards' soup dishes and numerous mice in the cafeteria. Of course, it's a single, but emblematic case. I hope this is not the model that, with all your cuts, you want to replicate to the Ministry of Justice in our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u14	Senator Di Maggio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u15	Madam President, it would have been nice for Deputy Minister Morando to be present in this House, but for those who like me have, I do not know whether to say the fate or the misfortune, to continue to do business in our country, to face up to this bill of stability and yet another vote of confidence is certainly cause for great concern. In the shortness of the seven minutes that are imposed on us I will try to give account to Deputy Minister Morando, of which I cannot fail to appreciate at least the attention he showed during the general discussion. An attention that is no longer caught in our information system, become every day more megaphone and silly flatterer than those who govern, with Mother RAI in mind, with news so servile as to remember the MinCulPop period. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] Mr. Deputy Minister, there are "three macro things" that jump immediately in the eyes of this law of stability. The first, which is also the first rule that applies to our companies when it comes to economics, is about cutting waste. I always feel a certain disappointment when you appoint commissioners in our country and that is because I find it paradoxical that a state commissioners themselves. But there are many political madnesses now and I hoped that at least Shakespeareanly there would be method in this madness, that is, that those who fall in love with an idea, though bizarre, pursue it in an unceasing way until they break in and insinuate the germ of change. That change so waved by our president. None of this. And I don't know now, I don't remember, if at the altar of the spending review five or six commissioners were sacrificed, all capable and prestigious professionals who, estimated the usefulness of their work, resigned. Reliable, if not even lying, are the cuts that this law of stability proposes us: less than half of those who had been pompously announced and all rigorously sucked into other ways, with good peace of all the snares of organizations and paraenti who will continue undisturbed to suck blood and resources to the world of enterprises and also to that of primary services, especially in a difficult moment such as the current one. I'm thinking about security, for example. In a country where about 52 percent of Italians no longer vote, it is clear to me that public spending retains the remaining 48 or 49 percent. A serious and enlightened government such as President Renzi's, I believe, will find another 10 billion to get the consensus at the next election round. Mr. Deputy Minister, it's 10 billion stolen from all those who can produce work and wealth for the country. The second thing I think is the most pernicious. I think that Deputy Minister Morando, who is an intelligent person and also a scholar, will certainly not escape as the majority of economists and scholars from all over the world say that there will be no recovery in our country until the gap that separates the South from the North of the country remains unchanged. And what does this enlightened government do? He completely forgets from his agenda the South of the country. It seems to me that my amendment on Matera, the European Capital of Culture, has been welcomed. I had quietly asked that the ancient law No. 771 of 1986 be refinanced, that some enlightened Government - I remember: I think it was the Government of Spadolini - had imagined to bring back to splendor the stones of Matera, which some visionary had included in the world heritage of humanity. I am told that someone in the Commission said that the 28 or 29 million that have already been allocated could have been enough in Matera. Too bad, though, that 28 or 29 million are for infrastructure. To me it seems paradoxical to remind Mr. Vice Minister that those infrastructures will be completed with these that are - I say to the colleagues present - the money needed to complete the Bari-Matera, an infrastructure designed and imagined for Italy '90. What more could be said? Matera today, for example, is the only Italian Province that is not connected to the Ferrovie dello Stato network. And so we vary this law of stability. Here I introduce the third and last argument. When I imagined this amendment, I worked hard to collect signatures in this House and found a broad consensus. Therefore, I believe it is paradoxical that the consensus of this Parliamentary Assembly cannot be accepted by the Government. I shall end bitterly by recalling a phrase of Metastasio: here it is no longer the voice that has escaped from hindsight; it seems to me that in this Chamber hindsight has escaped from hindsight. [[Applause from the CoR and LN-Aut groups and Senator Gaetti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u16	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u17	Madam President, many things you have not accepted: citizenship income, taxing the thirteenth and fourteenth months (more money in the pockets of families at the right times); separate taxation for the TFR in paycheck (which is currently on ordinary taxation and no one wants to do so; therefore restore a fair taxation of the TFR); equal the time of delivery of the TFR and the TFS of public employees to that of private employees (if I am fired, give me the TFR, I do not have to wait years). And again, disabled people with a disability of more than 50 percent must retire early; they cannot still be kept to work. Sick workers with asbestos-related pathology must be accompanied to the pension. No more political and trade union games to get gold pensions. We also proposed to repeal and change that rule, which you know well. We have proposed separate INPS management: it is not possible to keep employees and professionals together; it is necessary to separate the two categories; to set up a public supplementary pension fund directly at the INPS, since there are private supplementary pension funds is fine, but we do real competition and we also insert the INPS; re-training in TFR of the supplementary pension fund, so those who fail to arrive at the end of the month must have the possibility to take the TFR immediately, and therefore the freedom to turn it again into TFR instead of supplementary pension, because once you choose the supplementary pension you can no longer go back (this is a lack of freedom). To make it easier for the employee in economic difficulty to have these advances. No more onerous reunions: how many times do I have to pay the pension? You failed this, too. No more so-called silent contributions, that is, the money paid that you can't have back: those who paid must have the money back, unless you propose a social pension, as the INPS does. It is necessary to make it optional for small entrepreneurs to pay contributions due to family workers of artisans or coadjutors of commercial operators: if you work with me, do you want me not to pay contributions to my wife or to my son? But if I can't do it, at least give me the opportunity to do it on an optional basis, otherwise I will go to a public supplementary pension fund. We must help the cooperatives formed by the workers made redundant: the company is about to close and is about to quit; at this point we help the workers who form this cooperative to resume retirement. It is necessary to finance the centres of psychological support for entrepreneurs on the pavement because they are vexed by Equitalia, because these people not only have to pay taxes and do not make it, but also have psychological problems. We must think of seasonal workers in tourism, in the school sector, in the entertainment sector and in repealing the current calculation of the NASPI: we are making life difficult for them too. Then there is the refinancing of the unemployment benefit for employees, among what you have not done: that is all you have rejected. It is not us who say no: that it is clear to all citizens. It's not the Five Star Movement that says no, but they're the ones who say no. Only 0.2 percent of their votes were in favour of our proposals. They're the ones who say no! On the subject of the Fornero reform there is a little political game on which we should focus our attention. You have created the disaster and you have been trying, by gasping, to solve it. We are at the seventh safeguard rule: one, two, three, four, five, six and seven safeguard rules and it is not over! I call on all the workers, all the people who have been exodus to get together, to come out of Parliament, not to look for crumbs, because they will keep you waiting. Get together, make yourselves heard and do not seek favors, because it is not favors, but your rights, which have taken you away! [[Applause from Senator Paglini]] But do early workers, those who do weary jobs, want to retire them or not? PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite you to conclude, Senator Puglia. I shall conclude, Madam President. It is unthinkable to keep people working until they are 67 and to go on television to say that the problem of youth unemployment must be solved. If we don't let these workers retire, who do we hire? Madam President, we propose common sense rules, but we cannot wait for a 5-Star government to do this for the citizens. Take our proposals, which are there and which I have listed. You failed them all! Welcome them instead, and we raise the country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u18	Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u19	Madam President, first of all I would like to make a point, because in these days and weeks, listening to speeches about the law of stability, reading the newspapers, watching television, we have often and gladly heard a complex and redundant cry coming from the Mezzogiorno. It was also mentioned very clearly by my colleague Mr Di Maggio, previously: in this financial manoeuvre we have forgotten the Mezzogiorno. I have a good memory and I would like to remind all my colleagues that perhaps it has never happened in the history of the Republic that a Prime Minister, on the first day of his inauguration, during his speech to the Chambers, forgets to talk about the Mezzogiorno. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi]] Matteo Renzi forgot to talk about the Mezzogiorno: the chronicles report it, history reports it. I am not surprised and if anything I am amazed by my colleagues from the Mezzogiorno, who are looking for answers in this Government and do so in such an incisive, just and legitimate way, as Mr D'Anna did yesterday, who even got angry. Perhaps little is common with my colleague, Mr D'Anna, except to share a clear aversion to the centralist regulation of the Colbertist, which is definitely the sack flour of this Government. So it is not there that you can find satisfaction with your demands and those like him, in the economy and within the government. It is certainly not in that approach that you can find it. Maybe there's been a search for greener meadows. [[Applause from Senator Stefani]] that perhaps, according to some, they could have given better answers to their legitimate complaints. But it is not in this Government that Senator D'Anna will find the liberal and liberal idea he seeks. If the South cries, however, the North certainly does not laugh, because the regions of the North have not had a favorable treatment, indeed. This is yet another proof that if there is cash to be made, you go where you can do it. Just look at the tables, the alchemy of numbers, because alchemy is spoken of in this unstable stability, to see that once again there are cuts, to health care and those who have more, even in the North. So this shot, this light outside the tunnel that someone sees there; you see the light, but it's probably ten light years away because it's perfectly horizontal and even doesn't have the interference of electromagnetic currents, being inside a tunnel, so the light is perfectly visible. But there's no such thing. I am on the ground and, ladies and gentlemen, nothing has changed since six or ten months ago, we are still in quite a difficult situation. Just stand in the middle of people to figure it out. We expected an impulse at least on what should have been the salient stages of the rebirth, of the recovery of the country, but there is a problem. Firstly, with regard to the infrastructure from which the impulse should come, there is a very small problem: give us back Wolves because Minister Delrio does not see, does not exist, does not exist, does not work or perhaps if he works does not produce. It's not just me who says that, probably even within the majority you're realizing it. We are at absolute zero: the Ministry is bogged down and other situations are too: inside the Railways complain, at ANAS we don't even talk about it. We're still. The recovery should start, but the yards do not leave. I am a pragmatic, like so many of you who have been administrators, I say: let us open these yards. But there aren't any. Minister Delrio, with all the respect I have for him since he is an exquisite person from the human point of view, had proposed to us the treatment of iron, but iron, is rusty and, with all the respect - I repeat - from a doctor who speaks of infrastructure could not be expected anything else. I don't mean that a doctor can't do the Minister of Infrastructure well because I have a very dear friend who was an engineer and was an excellent Minister of Grace and Justice, so a doctor could also be a very good Minister of Infrastructure, but he has to put himself in the head that, contrary to his profession where he is lucky enough to bury his own crap, as the great Frank Lloyd Wright said, in politics will not be allowed, so the crap will remain in history. You don't want to move, like it's happening right now. And who saw the infrastructure? Nothing's going on. An impulse was expected. I see my colleague Scibona with whom we fought in the Commission to get these answers from the government that had the courage to say: we delete the objective law (I don't know if the works have actually been deleted anyway we no longer know where they are written), we delete the book of dreams and we make a list of works that we will go to finance and realize. We were promised that with the September-October Update Note the list of new works would arrive, the famous 25 works of this spring, along with the resources. Nothing's come. I see little here too: the usual Florence tram has definitely remained, which remains a strategic work and fundamental for the development of the country, but you can see nothing and this is very worrying. Someone talked about the bridge over the Strait that occasionally comes up, but they don't say anything about it. There is nothing to be said about another sector which would be propulsive (and not because I say so or because we say so but because all economic and world analysts say so). Investors in technology networks guarantee a return in terms of GDP: more GDP for all. It's not like that and not because we don't have it, but because it's not run over. Also in this case the government had guaranteed special effects with ultraviolet colors and instead we are in total darkness because at least then Minister Passera, who of GDP is understood to be a serious economist (we remember him with affection for what he did to the Post Office) a minimum of hope had given it. We took ten steps back here. We even regret the digital agenda that had given us to do the tasks of the European Telecommunications Commissioner, who is not particularly nice to us. It was expected that the government would definitely take this ball in hand, in order to be able to play it in our country, making available resources, but also taking the resources that would be made available by private individuals and telecommunications companies (this has also been certified). Nothing, we're still, nothing works, there's no project. The digital agenda of the country is written on paper. We have proposed in the Commission that we work with four hands to create an architecture with which we can finally make a country project from this point of view and give a boost. Instead, we do not see the Minister of Infrastructure in the Commission (who saw him?), while undersecretary Giacomelli, who deals with telecommunications, is engaged on the scum of RAI; so everything is still and nothing happens. I am just talking about the subjects of my own direct competence (surely my colleagues will do the same on other issues). It is very worrying, I say it in a very detached way. I'm really worried and not just me, because operators are worried too. We believe that this is a pre-electoral maneuver, because this is in the ropes and spirit of Matthew Renzi. We do not know very well how far the unconscious reaches and we do not know where the unconscious ends and where the inability can start. The fact is that our country is still running away. Let's take the fish territories in the face, because the main mission is to empty the local agency. Evil lies in the outskirts and everything must be taken to the center. I would like to take the opportunity that Vice Minister Morando has returned to the Chamber, to bring him the greetings of some mountain peoples, who thank him and the Government for the Christmas gift we gave to the mountain areas. They wrote to me last night to thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for disregarding the expectations of a very humble request from the mountain populations, who asked for at least 22% VAT on pellets to be removed for heating. You know how much the cost of heating the house in a family's economy is in mountain areas. Thank you for putting 22% back on pellets: perhaps we are the only country in Europe. And they beg me to advise them, knowing his passion for the mountain (we do not know if even for winter sports), not to come skiing to me in Valtellina, because, although the temptation is to cut them else, surely they cut her tires. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u20	Senator Marton is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u21	Madam President, can you help me find a term that is elegant for someone who says one thing and does another? CASTALDI (M5S). Renzi! MARTON (M5S). I use the term "hypocrite," although perhaps "incoherent" would be better. The President-in-Office of the Council made a statement on the other day at Sky TG24: he said he was prepared to check whether more money could be put into the law of stability on security. It seems like the clause that is placed on the agenda: "to assess the appropriateness of "to." Well, we go beyond this verification of the possibility. We have tabled serious and covered amendments to this bill of stability, which went in the direction of strengthening both intelligence and the police: you have rejected them all. Now, I wonder how one can define a person who insists on lying to the Italians. I also ask Deputy Minister Morando if he is happy that France can overtake the Stability Pact for defence and security expenditure; do you think that Italy can or will not do so, Deputy Minister Morando? It is, in fact, quite important: we owe money to buy weapons - and that is not part of the Stability Pact - while giving salaries to people and establishing a citizenship income is not possible: it is never possible to defend the weak. I wonder what kind of country we're going to end up in or live in. I will finish quickly because I do not want to speak to an empty House and to a Minister who does not listen or at least do something totally useless. However, I read you a text that came to me from a worker of the former Alpha Romeo of Arese, who for four years has been struggling, together with 38 of his colleagues, to have the reintegro in a society that, in fact, has failed and has passed hands, knowingly, through various passages covered by trustees, to ensure that these workers had neither a liquidation, nor a pension, nor a rag of economic dignity. These people haven't taken a paycheck in four years and they've had yet another slap these last few days. I read you the message as it is written because it's terrifying, while we're here doing this clowning. Hello, as expected, the insolvency curator does nothing to change our shameful qualification at the INPS. He says he doesn't have enough official information from the Ministry. No clarity at the INPS in Rome. So the crate will fail. These workers are simply asking for the redundancy fund by way of derogation. A simple question has become complicated, with no one doing anything to change it. That is it turns out that at the Alfa Romeo in Arese we metal mechanics were not metal mechanics, but we were framed as hunters of animals and fishermen. Now we're fired again and going into unemployment. However, the INPS asks us back the money of unemployment because we have been reinstated, even if reinstated by a failed company that does not pay us. We have not taken any pay and therefore for a year, until Christmas 2016, we will not have even a minimum subsidy. The judgment is not enforced. From three judgments in court they were obliged to reintegrate, but they failed that company. I repeat: it is a Srl with 10,000 euros of capital protected by a trustee in Luxembourg. The judgment shall not apply. Justice is slow and shortsighted. Strong powers are everywhere and in that place we always take it. Long live Italy! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u22	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u23	Madam President, let us give a brief summary of what has happened, because today we are being asked for trust and it is worth trying to understand what is going on. It is certainly true that serious work has been carried out in the Commission, which the rapporteurs had set up according to a dynamic that should be the parliamentary one, that is, by collecting all the suggestions for correction and proposing a work of general rehabilitation that would take into account the suggestions also of the oppositions, compatible with the lines of the Government. This was an appreciated style and this is the work you have done. Unfortunately, however, a whole series of elements, which are actually fundamental - and I will briefly review them later - were then systematically removed, removed from this debate, in a game that may be difficult to understand from the outside and that, to be honest, it was also difficult to understand from the inside, in front of which it must be said that the Commission, in particular the minority, deliberately chose an attitude not of responsibility for the needs of the government, but of respect for the institution of which we are all part. This respect has, however, had a sad epilogue, because last night, in a mixture of prostration and indifference, the Minister for relations with Parliament came to the Chamber, who once again put the question of trust in the guarantee that there would be a correspondence between the maxi amendment and the work done by the Commission. This morning we also discovered that this is a constitutional practice that also has a name: if I understand well it is the Morando-Pera praise, so we also have the praises that allow us to ennoble these choices. While it is certainly commendable that the maxi amendment corresponds to the Commission's work, it must be said that this work has actually turned into a grove where the holes are heavier than the cheese around them, because what remains is a maneuver full of questions. When the Commission spoke about the plan for the South, there were mainly senators elected in the colleges of the southern regions. Instead, it would be much more interesting for this Government to give the country the awareness that the plan for the South is not a private affair of the Regions of the Mezzogiorno, but it is a fact that affects the very consistency of a united country, because it would be now also time for the plan for the South to mean a global and overall plan that concerns the close connection existing between a South, a Center and a North that now have very close relations that, with regard in particular to the last events in Emilia-Romagna, we would also like to be profitable and productive and not only of sharing the same forms of organized crime. Another theme is gambling. I would like those who listen to us to know that gambling is not only a problem of those who practice it or of ludopathy, but is one of the strongest legs of organized crime and in particular, not more of the infiltrations, but of the presences consisting of the 'ndrangheta in the regions of the North. It is astonishing that the debate will have the opportunity to enter into the merits of gambling, also because it is one of the main sources of entry of this financial manoeuvre. Article 34 of the stability bill, which concerns the regions, has also been paraded and in this regard too it is curious the ballet that there was in the Commission: first the guarantee of being able to deal with this issue in the rapid discussion of a decree-law and then the presentation of an amendment with the total impossibility of making any changes. Article 34 is complex and is surrounded by a thick fog; it has been taken away from the discussion, but a first and quick analysis would seem that within that article there is a particularly black 2017 for a redde rationem that is only postponed. In this maneuver, even for the holes we were talking about, it strikes above all a lack of vision, that is, you do not understand which side you are on, also because it is nothing more than a piece of a series of measures. Of course, financial manoeuvre is the measure that also gives the temperature, which indicates where you want to go; however, this text, together with other measures, highlights a series of contradictions that make you wonder which side you are on. There are measures that try to draw attention to legality, but they do so in words because then you have an increase in the cash circulation roof and we know that this is closely linked to money laundering. We are talking about the fight against tax evasion and one of the measures that would allow this maneuver to have a breath of air is voluntary disclosure, which is actually a self-denunciation. So we're basing our income on the awareness that Italians carry capital abroad. 25 million are given to private schools while in public schools (now the discussion is dampened, not because the law on the so-called good school has brought benefits, but because the teachers are prostrate), according to a news last night that comes to me from those who work in schools, there is not even money for recovery courses. Amendment 6.28 (text 2), tabled by Senators Fabbri and Russo, is an interesting example, because it gives facilities to young couples who buy furniture after purchasing an apartment. With the Fabbri-Russian amendment these benefits are greatly increased, but this is not allowed to young couples who instead rent a property. Then there is a spontaneous question: do couples who do not have the money to buy an apartment not have the right to have the furniture to put inside the apartment for rent? The government and also Senators Fabbri and Russo (the pedagogue and the trade unionist) should be aware that those who today have the money to buy an apartment, probably also have those needed to buy furniture, while the problem is for all those who do not have the money to buy an apartment and maybe they do not even get married. [[Applause from Senators Bignami, Candiani, Gaetti and Simeoni.]] Article 9 of the same bill is another interesting example that leads us to ask the question again: but on which side are you? In the first six paragraphs of Article 9 there is an exit discipline for comfy, non-operational companies, then extended also to private entrepreneurs, which provides for the possibility of eliminating ambiguity situations. However, this is done by benefiting from a much more favourable taxation than the ordinary one, while the request to eliminate at least this facilitation has been abolished. Why is this happening? Let's take a little technical example: if a company bought a villa in Cortina years ago, which is obviously used by someone who uses it as a completely personal benefit, it has had a number of significant tax benefits. In this way, after a 2011 regulation that wanted to penalise these operations... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u24	I invite you to conclude your speech, Senator Mussini.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u25	MUSSINI (Mixed). I'm finishing. I was talking about villas in Cortina and Porsche, which are always an interesting theme. Given that in 2011, the legislation was intended to penalise companies born for this tax convenience, now it is possible to return to possession of these goods, but not with ordinary taxation. Same thing if you bought yourself a nice Ferrari with a VAT deduction that years ago was total. No impact on growth, little immediate revenue, little courage, a great gift for those who have already enjoyed benefits. The question remains: which side are you on? [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups and Senators Bignami and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u26	She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u27	Madam President, we have learned a new rule this morning. I am waiting for the Rules of Procedure to be amended with the new practice, so at least we know that and we are not banging like crazy. We work in the Commission, but it always passes what the Government chooses, which takes directions only from whom it wants, that is, from those to whom it has to make the marches. Then the government presents the maxi amendment, which I hope will be corrected, unlike last year. I'm already checking it out, sheet by sheet, because I have a small defect: I was born St. Thomas and until I bang the nose I don't trust. I will still not trust this Government, because it often happens that something strange comes out of the lines. And this is not only in the maxi amendment, but also in the same law of stability. For example, in paragraph 8 of Article 24 of the bill of stability corresponding to paragraph 215 of the single article of the maxi amendment, reference was made to the tax credit that will obtain the foundations that pay funds in the fund for the fight against educational poverty (later become national fund for the fight against poverty and social exclusion). But I read: The tax credit referred to in this paragraph is transferable by the entities referred to in paragraph 6, in compliance with the provisions referred to in Articles 1260 et seq. of the Civil Code and after adequate demonstration of the effectiveness of the right to credit itself, to banking, financial and insurance intermediaries. We don't let money into the state coffers with tax credits to the foundations to give it to bank and financial intermediaries? Let's do the gift again, why haven't we done enough? Why can't we, as mere taxpayers, change our credit? Because I, if I have a credit, I can't give it to one of my blood relatives, but to a bank intermediary, yes? These are the most obscene rules that a government can adopt, because they always go to protect the interests of the few. With the banks we are really doing crazy things: from bail to recovery plans. All because we have to cover these interests and protect those companies, which are companies governed by private law. But we forget the small ones that keep the social fabric. The difference between us and the Government lies precisely in the vision of a different world, of a different Italy, the one that must take care of the little one and then be able to give benefits to the great one. But it's the little ones who have to be fine first, because if the little ones get together, they eat the big one. This is what the 5 Star Movement will do when it finally comes to the government, because Italian citizens will eat the great interests of that European Union that is giving us the Diktats and we do not know why, except for this new world order that we often hear about in this House. What is this world order? What are the interests? I am still waiting for the response of Senator Napolitano, but also of others, since Minister Pinotti also spoke of a new world order. We wait. Isn't everything that's happening connected to this new world order? Let's wait. Meanwhile, there are always the interests of the few who want to eat the little ones. Attention, then, because the little ones will eventually come to eat you and I look forward to this. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u29	Madam President, the government has put the question of trust. He asks us, therefore, if we have faith in the Government, in this maneuver and in this law of stability. He asks us: do you have faith in a maneuver in deficit that, in order to try to collect electoral consensus for the important municipalities that will vote in the spring and for the political elections, apparently cuts some taxes? The cut takes place with a maneuver that puts the dust under the carpet - on the contrary, adds dust under the carpet - and postpones a number of choices and catches the wands of European commissioners like Moscovici and Dombrovskis who say that Italy will have to correct its maneuver in order to make it consistent with the indications of the European Commission. In other words, it now allows itself and then, in the spring - I think the attempt is to postpone the choices to immediately after the vote in the great municipalities - you will have to make an extraordinary maneuver, blaming who knows who to recover. Do we have faith in these things? No, we don't have faith. This government is proposing a deficit maneuver when four years ago it demanded that we be on the verge of the abyss. In fact, four years ago we had 1,906 billion public debt and a GDP of a certain type. There were certainly higher ones in Europe: I think of those in Germany, France and Great Britain; there was indeed a situation of some difficulty. We were at the disaster in 2011; now, after four years of governments that have healed everything, the billions are no longer 1,906, but 2,192. There are 285 billion more debt; that is over 5,000 euros more per person, including those who have no income. Gross domestic product has fallen by 4.3 percent. Italians earn on average more than 100 euros less per month, even those who earned nothing (as a result, for those who earned something the reduction was higher), and have a debt per head of 5,000 euros more. Four years ago we were on the edge of the abyss and where are we today? So, what do we do? There's a deficit maneuver. If we had tried to do it four years ago, they would have accused us of wanting to destroy Italy and of being irresponsible. You said, give us Monti and you'll see how things are straightened out. You can see how they straighten out: the debt increased by 285 billion and the wealth of Italy produced annually fell by 4.3 percent. Do we have faith in a maneuver of this kind? No, we have no confidence and the Italians will not have confidence, because they know that these tax reductions cannot be reliable because they will soon be taken back. Perspectives must be given. Italians are not stupid: they are not waiting for the gift, but a better perspective. A maneuver of this kind does not give any perspective; it gives some little gift and someone will fall for it. But, as the great Abraham Lincoln said, you can cheat someone sometimes, but not all times. Probably the Renzi government only has to cheat someone sometimes: maybe that 25%, so that with electoral law and constitutional reform it will be able to take control of all the institutions. Unfortunately, he cannot take the fate of Italy into his hands to make them better; indeed, the problems increase. So do we have faith in these maneuvers? No, we don't have faith. Can we trust a government that, in order to continue its electoral gifts, has increased a series of taxes? Even this time it increased them. As Senator Amidei said yesterday, he increased the tax on agricultural and dominical income of agricultural land and so, with one hand, he takes back what he had given with the abolition of agricultural IMU. We have no confidence in this type of tax reduction. Do pensioners trust this government? The Commission has perhaps given pensioners an eighth of what the Constitutional Court had to give them. We would have confidence in a person - an ordinary citizen - who does not return the money he owes and, when the judgment of the court that imposes the return for example of 8,000 euros, says to the creditor: "I give you 1,000 euros and that's okay, because I am stronger also than the court?" Nice behavior. It does not seem to me that such a situation is worthy of a government, but - if anything - of certain non-legal organizations that are unfortunately present in some parts of our country. This is the behavior of those who do not even apply the judgments of a court. What do we do? Pensioners are not given what is also provided for in the Constitutional Court's judgments. I am referring to the famous 80 euros, which only someone receives and which are paid at a high price and in deficit, because every Italian (even the one who does not receive 80 euros) in recent years has been indebted of 5,000 euros more. You want how many odds of 80 euros it takes to get to the figure of 5.000 euros! All citizens find themselves more indebted. In any case, in the absence of any misunderstanding, the pensioner, on equal income with an employee, does not receive the 80 euros; even a self-employed person, on equal income with an employee, does not receive the 80 euros. Should citizens trust the government? I'd say they don't trust the executive. Today's pensioners do not have confidence, as do tomorrow's pensioners. One day yes and one day no - indeed, one day yes and the other also - the President of the INPS, Tito Boeri, instead of looking at the efficiency of the huge body he should be in charge of and of which he should take care of functionality, he starts to act as the Minister of Economy, the Minister of Labour or the Parliament, saying that practically all pensions should be cut (except his own, it is meant, because privileged under certain international treaties) and that all taxes should be cut. Do you think pensioners can trust this government and this kind of maneuvering? I am referring to today's pensioners and, I said, tomorrow's pensioners too, because this government (not previous governments) has increased taxes on pension funds, TFR funds and professional social security funds. Very well, this is a good way to encourage workers to resort to supplementary pensions. I really don't think pensioners have any faith. The problem of lack of confidence is not the problem of voting in this House; the problem is that if people do not have confidence they do not consume and if they do not consume there is no recovery. Let us not talk about a miraculous recovery of 0.5% under conditions that - I believe - have never occurred in the last thirty years: I am referring to a particularly high value of the dollar, the cost of oil at historical minima and the quantitative easing made by the European Central Bank under the direction of Mario Draghi. Well, in this situation we have a recovery of 0.5%, thanks to which we have 4.3 percent less GDP than in 2011, when the government was Berlusconi. These are the things that should give the Italians confidence? I don't think so. Should local administrators trust them, who don't know what they're going to do from one year to the next? The answer given to local administrators in the Commission was to come together if they fail to replace staff and provide services: a municipality that does not have staff is merged with other municipalities that are in the same situation. Moreover, the municipalities cannot employ staff even if they have the financial resources because they have managed well. Should this give confidence? Should it give confidence to the people of these municipalities, to whom it is proposed to unite so that when a citizen has to go to the Town Hall perhaps 50 kilometers of mountain road? Should citizens have confidence in the willingness to save money when it is imposed on municipalities to buy through CONSIP auctions, even when they are able to find 9 percent lower prices on their own? [[Applause from Senator Fucksia]] Madam President, the municipalities are obliged to buy at a higher price. I'd say it's an extortive logic. [[Applause from Senator Amidei]] We have no confidence in these logics and we will act accordingly. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Fucksia. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u30	Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u31	Madam President, according to many and also among the farmers' associations, the draft stability law under consideration is the one that has treated the agricultural world best in recent years. I will deal specifically with the agricultural component. Minister Martina had announced a billion euros for agriculture, but we know that the Minister has a little problem with numbers. I want to start from afar, from the beginning, from the 2014 law of stability, that of last year. The dairy sector was and is in great difficulty at the end of the milk quotas and there are 108 million euros coming out of the cylinder for the sector, with large proclamations, press conferences, trumpet rings and those who have more. Then it turns out that it was only 8 million euros for 2015 and 50 million euros for the years 2016 and 2017. It could be said that "rather than nothing is better," but then comes May 2015 and the case of xylella breaks out. You need money and where can you fish? By golly, you have given a lot to the dairy sector, which can also be taken away a little, also because such a huge amount - that is, EUR 8 million - is difficult to spend and they are all still in the cash register. Said, done: of the 8 million euros for 2015 remain 4, and you remove 12 for 2016 and 12 for 2017 from the 50 previewed, so no one notices. Then comes this fantastic law of stability and it is well thought to remove another 23 for 2016, so, from the 50 initials, there remain 15. But, as Tognazzi would say in "My Friends" - we could use those words, if it wasn't so tragic - here's a backup: the VAT compensation from 8.8% to 10 percent and they put on the 30 million plate, that is those that had been removed before. Then, since there is a fund, apparently little used, for the recruitment of young people in agriculture, it is drained and 8,3 million euros of the 9 are removed. Nobody wonders why it is poorly used? Well, Article 5, paragraph 2, of Decree-Law No 91 of 2014 - yes, of 2014 - says that those who hire a young man in agriculture with certain characteristics by June 2015, in 2016 would have had an economic facility. It would come to be said: "Campa horse, that the grass grows". In the meantime the jobs act has been approved and the entrepreneurs have preferred to hire with the latter contract, because more facilitated and in fact they have soon finished the resources. You have then thought well to reduce this fund from three to two years, to reduce the facility from EUR 8,060 to EUR 3,250 and to put a ceiling of EUR 1,6 million. Why then didn't you think to transfer the youth fund, which - I repeat - was 9 million euros or to extend the recruitment until June 2016? In this way you have taken ten million euros from agriculture. With the IRAP you have reached the maximum: you have put on the plate 200 million euros, 75 of which taken from the agricultural sector. Goddamn it, how much money! Too bad that the beneficiaries are 250,000, as stated on page 98 of the technical report, which for an elementary calculation make 80 euros per skull. These 80 euros that keep chasing us! Only that farmers are given once a year, while other employees are given once a month. It went bad with the CAFs, the tax assistance centers: you wanted them to decrease by 100 million euros, trusting to bring the 400,000 small farmers, with a turnover below 7,000 euros per year, under ordinary tax regime, so the CAFs would pay them. But since this rule was too much, you went back and had to reduce the cut from EUR 100 million to EUR 40 million. That's a good figure. What about aid to the beet-sacchariferous sector? An amendment is placed on the label, setting up a fund for the rationalization and conversion of well, people's audits, audits, one million euros for 2016. Defining it as charity is a compliment. I would not like to tease you, but I could still say many things, such as the 45 million euros taken away from ISMEA, where you have taken the 75 million euros for the agricultural IRAP, referred to in paragraph 10 of Article 47, the increase of the IRPEF, through the revaluation of the dominical and agricultural incomes, the registration tax and so on. However, I would like to add a little something. You speak of appropriateness, but you rejected Amendment 49.0.11, by my signature, in which a bureaucratic commission was taken away from doctors, to assign it to the secretariat staff. Is paying a doctor to be a secretary appropriate? It's called a waste in my house. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I hope Minister Lorenzin answers me. I want to conclude with Amendment 26.2100, tabled by the rapporteurs. It is sublime: pure poetry. With this amendment financed the post-earthquake reconstruction of Lombardy-Emilian 2012, after you rejected an amendment, in which I had asked to include eleven Mantua municipalities in the free urban areas. Here too it is difficult to understand the logic of your thinking. Why is only the Modena part of the earthquake a free zone? [[Applause from Senator Fucksia]] We return to the amendment: to paragraph 7-c you have allocated 190 million euros to the reconstruction, 160 for the Emilia-Romagna Region and 30 for the Lombardy. It's interesting to know where that money came from. The answer lies in the last three lines of the paragraph, which I read: The related charges shall be reduced by the same amount of the expenditure authorisation referred to in Article 3 -bis, paragraph 6, of the Decree-Law of 6 July 2012, n. 95. Paragraph 6 states: For the purposes of implementing this Article, the maximum annual expenditure of EUR 450 million from 2013 onwards shall be authorised. In summary, the money is taken from the fund already allocated in 2012 and never spent. They advertise and always allocate the same money, making it believe that it is new appropriations. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Unfortunately, this game is not the first: even the 140 million of the 205 promised by Decree-Law No. 78 of 19 June 2015 are taken from the same fund. So, these are funds that have already been allocated three times! How many measures should we still hear before this money is actually given to citizens who have suffered damage and who still live outside the home (only in Moglia there are 450)? I believe that in order not to write these rules in the law of stability it would take a little modesty; which you lack. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u32	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u33	Madam President, gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached trust No 46; a particular confidence, I would say, because it is a trust in trust. Once again, the time taken by the House to examine the major amendment has been quite short, although Deputy Minister Morando has been quick to point out that the amendments approved by the 5th Commission have been transposed. However, it is a matter of trust, which does not leave the House time for discussion and deepening, which is the fundamental element in recovering, through the principle of responsibility, awareness of acts, awareness of a vote. A former colleague of ours, Nicola Rossi, with the recognized competence of economist, also endowed with refined culture, says in his book "Subsidies": "the tax is the place where the relationship between state and citizen is measured." Indeed, the qualitative and quantitative correspondence between the taxes paid and the services given by the State to the citizen defines the relationship between the citizen and the State. Well, I think this relationship is deeply vulnerated. You are asking Parliament for confidence; Parliament is trying to listen to the thought of the people it represents in this House, and it considers, as far as I and the Reformist Conservatives are concerned, that this trust cannot and should not be granted. Beware, not to slip rhetorically into forms of opposition or political exploitation; on the contrary, I would say that it is the exact opposite. He who speaks to you belongs to a group that makes a mature and responsible opposition, which is written within the acts and within the parliamentary prerogatives. We have tabled a number of important amendments, which also go in the direction of giving support to the Government in taking a path of equity and responsibility. These amendments were intended to lead to a shock cut in taxes: 48 billion in all, 24 of which already in the first year, corresponding to real cuts in unproductive public spending; that unproductive public expenditure that still continues to grow and that the Government continues to feed even losing the opportunity of the contribution that Cottarelli first and Perotti then gave to take the path of a lightening of unproductive public spending that contributes to forming those 2,200 billion public debt that represent a ball at the foot for the country's development prospects. There are several pages of this law of stability that remain blank, others written with haste, superficiality and without taking into account the real needs of the country, making prevail over these the demand, very often demagogically declined, to attract consent and to coagulate in a sometimes pathetic way - I will be allowed - the consent of the people. Nor will the press of the regime change the conviction of the people because you see, the headlines of the newspapers that please the government may be roboating but they will not be able to convince the Italian citizens whose situation is difficult and who fail to reach the end of the month being deprived of sometimes essential principles, constitutionally established rights. I am referring to the blank pages: security and the South; two important pages in which the Government has not been able to find a high point of mediation. We believe that security and support policies for the benefit of the law enforcement forces are absolutely relevant. We are faced with the security and defence sector that has not yet had the renewal of a contract despite a judgment, we are faced with a sector that today is called to carry out additional actions in a particularly complicated national and international context and that has absolutely inadequate resources. On the other hand, resources given to security are taken from the South after the SVIMEZ has told us about the dramatic situation in which the South of the country is located. As has also been said by those who preceded me, the problem of the South is not a problem of those who live in the South, it is a problem of the country. It is irresponsible to think of marginalizing the problems of poverty as typical of the South alone. I repeat: the problems of the South are problems of the country and the levels of social cohesion are further and severely increased in the negative sense by this law of stability. The other chapter is about health and I speak very briefly about it. We are at 6.5% of the funding of the Health Fund and we are close to the threshold that the World Health Organisation identifies as a minimum funding ceiling to ensure the essential levels of assistance. Eight regions in our country no longer guarantee them, says the National Plan outcomes and PiT citizenship health. These are important chapters, Mr President, on which more responsibility would have been required. We must regain the sense of responsibility, which we do not forget and which we believe is necessary to put to the attention of the Government in the next legislative appointments. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u34	Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the provisions of the Stability Act lead to a deterioration in net debt compared to the value of the balance resulting from current legislation of around 14 billion in 2016, 19 in 2017 and 16 in 2018. The expansive part of the maneuver is entrusted to the reduction, or rather, to the postponement of the taxes. The law of stability focuses, in fact, on the postponement of tax increases rather than on real cuts. Over the last twenty years in Italy there has been a constant deterioration of productivity and investment, the fall in technological progress indices, a loss of added value shares in manufacturing (and especially in the most technologically advanced sectors, such as mechanics, which is the heart of Italian industry). On the other hand, under-financing of strategic sectors such as school, university and health, as well as weak signs of productivity, leave doubts as to the ability of the maneuver to mark an effective reversal of trends compared to previous years. It is clear that there is no planning and only vague ideas of industrial policy, while permanently maintaining privileges, status quo and generally favoring consolidated interests. You have predicted for 2016 that about half of the spending cuts pertaining to the Ministries will be the one in capital account: in other words, the one for public investments. In the Update Note to the 2015 Economy and Finance Document, it was already indicated that the decline in capital expenditure for 2016 would be 2.6 percent and for 2017 even 7.3 percent. But be careful, as the Governor of the ECB said several times, cutting public investment spending is damaging the long-term growth of the economy. In order to reduce waste and spend more money, we must focus on a real spending review, the main aims of which must be better control of aggregate expenditure and better definition of spending priorities. Instead, one has the perception that spending review is not a real priority of this Government, which merely provides for random cuts or linear cuts, with all the harmful effects that result. Public investment is also lacking, especially in the Mezzogiorno. For many years the South has been abandoned to its destiny and this law of stability, once again, ignores it. Minister, it is now well known by all that overcoming the technical recession is, more than anything else, the outcome of the monetary policies adopted by the ECB, which allowed a partial depreciation of the euro on the main international currencies and the reduction of interest rates on public bonds, together with a sharp fall in the price of oil. So, net of these measures, the competition for the growth of the Italian Government is essentially zero. On the other hand, there are no effective policies of redistribution and income support, also taking into account the small amount of resources allocated to the Poverty Fund, as there is no trace of a real fight against tax evasion. The figures for businesses that fail in the field of tourism and trade are alarming, but no specific measures are taken to reverse this trend. Between July and September 2015, more than five hundred companies took books to court. From this picture, Deputy Minister Morando, emerges in all its evidence the continuing discrepancy between the announced government policies aimed at relaunching Italian industry and the concrete measures actually taken. There are no measures to reduce the amount of energy consumed and improve the energy performance of buildings. You told us about a green act - you dreamed of it - that we never had the pleasure to see. Perhaps it is kept in a drawer not to displease the fossil energy producers, the sponsors of this Government who have been able to have you put in the electric bill another 2 billion euros to pay interconnections that will not serve and will be yet another useless works; to the face of the cut of 10 percent of the bill promised by Renzi! There are no satisfactory measures that effectively protect and promote Made in Italy. There is a lack of support for the local economies that carry out their activities in the form of small businesses in the field of crafts, trade, tourism and agriculture, which are strongly linked to the development of the territory in which they operate. As already mentioned, it is quite clear that there is no structural plan for the recovery of the economy in the Mezzogiorno, which has not had any concrete implications despite the numerous announcements on special measures such as the tax credit for southern companies, the reduction of taxes for companies in the South and the decontribution for new recruits in the Southern regions (some still wait for Renzi at the Fair of the Levant). Great absentness of the maneuver, once again, the research and innovation that we always talk about but never take care of. The non-strengthening of the tax credit introduced by the Stability Act 2015, which is indispensable in order to promote investments by domestic and foreign companies, the inability to implement the voucher for the digitisation of small and medium-sized enterprises and network contracts, has been recognised by several parties. Industrial policy measures aimed at supporting innovative sectors that operate in the conversion of the energy production system to an efficient and energy-efficient model produced from renewable sources are completely absent. There is no intervention to improve the liquidity of companies, as well as, always for companies, notes the absence of a further refinancing of the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, a fundamental instrument to support access to credit, given the continuing procyclicality of a banking system totally self-referential and imbued with serious conflicts of interest and illegitimacy and immoral behaviour, as the increasing number of bank scandals certify, from Monte dei Paschi di Siena to the Banca Peoplea di Vicenza, and the continued use of anatomy despite the presence of a prohibition of law and ten sentences of condemnation of the same courts. There is no effective intervention in the payment of public debt; yet, according to a very recent study by the Bank of Italy, the commercial debts should be reduced by another 50 billion. There are no measures to accelerate the implementation of the broadband and ultra-wide network, a priority requirement for the competitiveness of the entire economic system and for the growth of the country, allowing the full achievement of social and digital inclusion. The list would still be long, and expresses the government's disengagement towards this country composed of art, beauty and culture, which we will strive with all means to safeguard against all attempts to loot, exploit and destroy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u37	Madam President, I have to say that a fairly clear scenario emerges from the speeches that are being made: this is a demand for confidence in a budget that is difficult to agree with, if you have a sense of reality. That is also what we are talking about: we are out of reality. I felt that in a previous speech people were reminded to be careful, because if on the one hand they have the impression of finding some money in their pockets, they will have to be careful about the wallet in the other pocket. In reality, this is a financial one that produces a further expenditure deficit and that, above all, charges further on the pockets of our future citizens 5,000 euros more of public debt each. What hands are we in, Madam President? That is the question to be asked. Today the question of trust is raised, also taking advantage of a media shadow cone due to the serious events that occurred in Paris, which allows the Renzi Government to pass on a rapacious financial track, put together in some way and assembled nighttime. Indeed, the work of the Commission has been interrupted several times, because the Government was not ready and was unable to find cover for the same spending choices that the majority have changed several times. Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. It never happened, not once. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Then it comes to wonder what hands we are in. Not Professor Morando's. I fear, thinking of the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, that we find ourselves in the hands of a pious salesman, in hands that are more accustomed to selling smoke than not contained, also considering some aspects that are giving us much certainty in these hours about the voidness of the Government's proposals. You see, Madam President, just yesterday the President of the Council of Ministers delighted in an hour's interview with Sky. He got interviewed, probably expecting a "kneeling" interview, "genufless." Those who could see that interview will have realized that we are unfortunately faced with a Government led by an unelected President, who mugged, who stumbled in words and who could not give coherent and concrete answers to those same questions that all citizens are asking about the security of the country and our relations with other countries, in order to defend our territory, our cities and our families with respect to an aggression. Well, this is the government that should give, at this time and with this law of stability, prospects for the future. Well, the certainty we've had is that unfortunately, in addition to numbers, we also have visual confirmation of the inadequacy of those who are ruling right now. Immaculate; this is the least that can be attributed to it. Moreover, there is an ambiguity - the circumstance is such as to recall these episodes too - that in recent days has brought the same President of the Council of Ministers on pilgrimage to those Arab countries from which the funding that supports ISIS comes. We would love to know those relationships that are behind us and that are not declared. We know that over the years there have been very close relations; we also know of the attention that the President of the Council of Ministers has for the countries of the Arab Gulf. Let us think, for example, of the fact that the same aircraft that you purchased and which is worth EUR 200 million was not actually purchased, but was rented by Etihad, an airline owned by a sovereign country and a sovereign fund of the Gulf countries. What, then, are the relations we have with the countries of the Persian Gulf? And what are the interests that the country is doing right now? Why does President Renzi go to Saudi Arabia? Why does the President not commit himself, instead, to denouncing and cutting down, even with urgent interventions to be included in the budget, things that are troubling? I read, in fact, from the news that half a billion euros is the figure - according to Vladimir Putin - that ISIS would have cashed in within a year through oil smuggling. Truly, the oil trade along the direction used by the terrorists today also existed at the time of Saddam, but it remains the need to ask for greater responsibility to two countries, which up to now have always had an ambiguous attitude, Turkey and Saudi Arabia. What is our country's interest in approving this law of stability? That of protecting us against relationships that ultimately produce funding for terrorists who come to put bombs in our country? I am afraid not, because there is no measure in this budget to strengthen important measures, which we have called for, for security, for the protection of citizens and for intelligence; on the contrary, there are at the same time ambiguous and opaque relations, which the President of the Council of Ministers is having with the countries of the Persian Gulf. But in what context is this finance approved? What are the real conditions of the country? President, Deputy Minister Morando, just now that there was a minimum economic recovery, paradoxes have occurred; I address my fellow senators of the Democratic Party: do you realize the paradox? At this moment, when there has been a minimum recovery in the sale of motor vehicles, Italy is forced to import steel laminates from abroad. Yeah, because we know ILVA, after everything you've made us spend on it, in what condition it is. Ours, according to the press and television statements made by the President of the Council of Ministers, is a country that dictates the rules to others, and we no longer have a steel production that meets domestic demand. But what, at this point, is the rest of the scenario? A budget which has been approved by the European Union with applause and applause? No: refer yourself, again, to this front, in April. I always read from the news that for Italy the outcome has not been the best, since the Commission has decided to suspend the judgment until April; by then our country will have to prove that it has made the reforms and investments planned to justify the overtaking of the parameters provided for in the Stability Pact; those parameters that we denounce for years as absurd and that you do not even have the strength to go to European debate, but for which the European Union today tells us that we are postponed to April. In the press, however, it is sold as a financial that will create growth in the country. Mah! Madam President, there was an opportunity that we would have liked to see implemented in this financial: the spending review, of which we have now lost track. There is a dull and faded track of spending reviews; they had to be 10 billion but they got lost in the street. Then we come to mind the figures of Enrico Bondi, Mario Canzio, Carlo Cottarelli and, finally, Professor Perotti, who have all resigned, put aside, because, in the face of the statements of the President of the Council Renzi, in fact the spending review is not implemented. In fact, at the time when reports are presented indicating the items to be cut, the Government stops: it is first done to cut the money to citizens by cutting health spending rather than going to get rid of the unproductive expenditure that is in the Ministries. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senator Simeoni]] You are attached to the clientele systems, the same ones that, even in this phase of serious international crisis, continue to protect, not giving justice to the citizens and businesses that are no longer able, to the agriculture that is once again salted, with an increase in the cadastral incomes that will lead to a hemorrhage in the field of agriculture. This is the scenario in which you ask us for trust. Madam President, it was mid-October when we first learned about the overall financial framework with 25 tweets made by Matteo Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers, who announced to the country the content of the bill of stability; a content that for the next three weeks remained unknown to the senators, the deputies, the offices of the Senate and the House and the citizens. No more slides, too much effort, but 25 tweets thrown to the press to create confusion and emphasis without content. Madam President, this is not a way of asking for confidence, because it means mocking the citizens, not paying attention to the content but only to the form, selling an image that is far from the concreteness that we would need today. Once again, in fact, we wonder what is the content of the maneuver, because in those 25 tweets it was not written that the government bases much of the financial on the immoral leverage of gambling: 600 million each year for the next three years you will try to cash them out by taking them from the pockets of citizens, deceiving them even that they can go to find answers to their misfortunes with gambling. Are these the basis on which your financial policy is based? This question has not been answered, because if a serious measure had to be done - and we have been asking for years - it was the reduction of gambling spread in the municipalities, which is draining resources to citizens, especially those who are more defenceless than the economic crisis. Yet we would have expected a budget that would go to sow by creating investments, because also in this regard - and I quote from the news, I do not make invented statements - from 2009 to 2014 investments in local administrations have collapsed by 33%, with a decrease that affected all the most important items of expenditure, from buildings to road works. The recovery goes for a restart of consumption, but also and above all for a return of the public investments; for this reason it would have been appropriate that, thanks to the savings obtained through an effective revision of the expenditure (that has not been), the government allocates new resources for the public works. Madam President, I wonder where these investments would have the opportunity to create jobs and economic growth, otherwise we are only talking about financial operations. In this respect, another illusion is the raising of the threshold for the use of cash. But let's quote another measure that the government should take, but it doesn't do because it is under bank blackmail: lower, reduce and remove the costs that electronic money has today, which have credit cards, the commissions that traders pay and then you will also have reduced the amount of cash circulating, but going to create a system that doesn't penalise those who use electronic money. Starting to conclude, this is a financial that disappoints us and that still contains billions of spending, for example a billion spending per year for the next three years for the hospitality of the illegals in this country; instead, they use that money to quickly define the position of those brought by the scafists in Europe and in Italy, defining immediately who has the right to stay there because he is refugee and rejecting immediately who is nothing but illegal and moreover with unknown identity, otherwise we really go to deceive the citizens. This does not reduce taxes: people are deceived by decreasing the IMU, but in reality taxes are increased, with a tax pressure that is now the highest in Europe. Madam President, 56% of Italians believe that today we are in a state of war, even if not declared. From this financial point of view, the country could have found a unity that the government refused by imposing this trust. The President of the Budget Committee is right when he says that there would have been an opportunity to conduct a very operational and final debate. But it wasn't done. We are disappointed and wish everyone more courage than the determination that our country, at this time, demands, and not with the approval of trust, but with a serious debate in Parliament. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u38	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u39	Madam President, once again we are faced with a text that is completely useless to start the economy in the country. In this law of stability - as many have said - there is no trace of a change of direction; there are no courageous measures on which we could have divided ourselves, but which would have allowed, if nothing else, to discuss the future of the country, on how to direct the formation of our young people, on how to give them a future. The government prefers to take time, hoping for a recovery that sooner or later - this is the idea - will also touch Italy. The industry is shrinking and in August we also saw the drop in exports. The only industrial sector that pulls is the production of the tweets of the President of the Council, always ready to celebrate the results of his Government, punctually denied by the numbers and facts. There are no errors in this maneuver. There is no money for public investment, there are no expansionary measures. They reduce taxes in a wrong and unfair way. There is no plan to relaunch the work. You cut health and services, you don't invest in the sectors that would restart the country, you promote evasion. We abolish that little capital tax existing in a country where evasion reaches record figures, exempting from the payment of TASI even that 10 percent of homes with the highest cadastral value, which corresponds to 37 percent of the revenues: about 1.4 billion given to the wealthy, who will enjoy a tax benefit proportionally higher than those living in modest apartments. Given that it is precisely the difference between tax bases and market values of real estate that generate strong iniquities, it is particularly serious that the only tax delegation not implemented is the one that had to update the land register. On the other hand, it would be necessary to reduce taxation on labour and to increase that on real estate for the real wealthy, on voluptuous consumption and on the environment. It is an unfair law because it gives relief to businesses, but it ignores workers and pensioners. The civil servants will receive 8 euros gross per month more. With the extension of the no-tax area, those who earn 7.750 euros per year will benefit of as much as 4 euros less taxes per month and only from 2017: may it ever be! For outgoing pensioners there is no flexibility, the 96 shares of the school are ignored, the train drivers excluded from the protection of exodus. Nothing is being done, therefore, to relaunch the internal market by focusing on who would be prone to spending. There is no plan for work, but only further push for the precariousness of the labour market. Despite the government's propaganda, the numbers speak for themselves: additional investment for at least one point of GDP per year, for three years, to be entrusted to the municipalities for small works, would have been necessary. Instead, the government uses the investment clause without increasing them. We were a little surprised by the tones with which the rapporteur, Mrs Zanoni, claimed the probability of the passage of contracts from fixed time to indefinite time: from precarious workers we switched to likely workers, when instead there would be a need for stable jobs, men and women who can afford to make plans for their future, to have a family. Against poverty, the government once again envisages spot measures. Everyone has shown outrage in these days for the data released by Save the Children on child poverty, but the reality is a law of stability that allocates 600 million euros in 2016 and 1 billion from 2017; yes, of course, with priority for poor families with dependent children, but this means 12 euros per month per person, 34 euro gross per family, if we consider only the audience of absolute poor. If even the cancellation of TASI for the wealthy were blocked and that billion and a half were invested, we could allocate 113 euros more per month to each family. The cuts for 2016 at the National Health Fund are heavy and add to those of the past years. We would have expected an increase in the fund as indicated in the 2014 Health Pact, and instead it is 1 billion more presented as a great victory, but we all know that it will not be enough to cover the costs of new drugs, vaccines, new LEAs and above all the ageing population. And nobody talks about the serious cuts to the staff: blockage of the turnover, massacred work shifts, large use of precarious (precisely, probable), recourse to temporary work. But do we know what all this means? Reduction of public supply, reduction of assistance, quality of public service, maintenance and guarantee of LEAs. Even the choice of merging and rationalizing hospital and university companies will be nothing more than a cut to staff and services and little, very little, the announced cut to management. Increasing the ticket and waiting lists have led to a migration from public health to private health, the costs of which are often more advantageous. It is private and insurance companies that do business in gold, to which citizens who can To afford it. Meanwhile, 9 million Italians give up their treatment because they have no money. In recent years, many European countries have made the choice to increase investment in schools, universities and public research in order to emerge from the crisis and reach the Lisbon objective. Italy, on the other hand, invests less than 1%, according to the philosophy inaugurated by Tremonti and Gelmini, whose reform - it is well to remember - so many members of this majority at the time have supported and voted. You treat recruitment as a pretty concession, when it is a due act, both because the judgment of the European Court of Justice requires it, and because the school needs teachers to ensure the quality of education and school continuity. The qualitative leap would have been to give real prospects to the precarious, but the government has looked at it well. Of course, the 5 million for scholarships and 10 for books are important, but today it takes 200 million for the right to study, to ensure access, completion of studies, real student welfare measures. Too many students are expelled from the training system because of the unsustainable costs. Ensuring equal opportunities and social mobility is essential in order to restart the country. To the satisfaction of the right who supports the Government, which a few evenings ago proudly claimed that it had achieved results never before achieved in this area, you have increased resources for private schools to 225 million. Shame! After the defiscalizations provided for in the law on school, without any modesty comes another gift that is a clear sign of the political choices of the government. For the research, always so mentioned, no resources are expected. 1,000 researchers are employed between universities and research institutions. Yet, with 800 million in four years, 17,000 RTDB researchers could be hired. Over 12,000 have fled these years. But the most resounding change of direction, the Premier had it in the fight against evasion. The Revenue Agency shall be abandoned to itself. Evidently, it does not carry out a priority task in the narration of the town. Almost a dozen downgraded super executives have left very delicate places for the control of large taxpayers and the levy on multinationals. Single for the country with the largest tax evasion in Europe. The new cash ceiling of EUR 3000 encourages evasion, promotes illegal activities and will realistically lead to a decrease in revenue. Instead, we ask that e-invoicing be made compulsory by allowing real-time verification of debt and credit positions. This could make up for 10 billion a year. The budget items relating to expenditure on arms, all with the most sign, in addition to the continuation of the purchase of the F35 with a monster expenditure of 13 billion euros, are never to be known, ignoring the vote of the House that asked to halve the economic commitment. This is another thing compared to the special security funds required by the government these days. However, Renzi announced an increase of 100 million euros in the Civil Service Fund. Instead, there are only 2 million more than last year. This will leave only 20,000 young people, instead of the 100,000 promised. But yeah, that was a commercial, and now no one remembers it anymore. There's money. Missing is the will to spend them well. We have proposed to the Government a 28 billion maneuver, which involves the relaxation of the Stability Pact, the fight against tax evasion and then cuts. Yes, there are things that would be good to cut and that never cut: less than 20 percent of military spending, cancellation of the F35 programme, the abolition of funding to private schools and the cancellation of Turin-Lion. Count by hand, there are 28 billions that could be used to create 250,000 jobs, reduce TASI to 18 million first-house owners, improve public services for 30 million citizens and relieve 2 million people in poverty. There is no trace of all these measures in this law of stability. You have chosen to tighten even more the noose of austerity, when it is unanimous that, in order to restart the economy, it is necessary to give back purchasing power to families and individuals, with public investment in controllable sectors capable of having positive multipliers and creating jobs. Your silence and your vow condemn the country to stagnation and social iniquity. Leave entire generations in depression and inactivity. At this rate, if the recovery takes place, it will not allow the middle class to recover, but will ultimately benefit, as in England, only the richest, the evaders, the promoters of illegal activities. And this is the sign of your stability. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]] Mr President, I would ask you to be able to attach the remainder of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u40	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I was planning to do a kind of intervention, but seeing how the morning and the last few hours are going, I decided to change it a bit. This law of stability and, above all, trust come in a strange way which, however, confirms our level of reasons for our serene criticism. The only party of half-hearted senators is not only politically but also as a presence, and it is enough to see among the benches of the majority: absences are physical but also mental, since they are all arguing or talking on the phone. The same goes for the government and for you, President, who are very often on the phone. [[Comments of Senator Cuomo),]] Except Senator Cuomo who's listening to me. Well, the single party of half-senators reminds me of a sentence by Silvio Berlusconi, your predecessor and creator of the former Forza Italia, now again Forza Italia and the former Party of Freedoms. At some point, he launched the slogan of doing a little as we please. In my opinion, this law of stability should be renamed as follows: the 2016 stability of the we do a little as we please. I list some cases. I am a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee. The President of the Budget Commission, former member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, should know that an amendment to Article 10 has been voted, introducing the new Article 10-a, which allocates funds for an agreement between Italy and the Holy See. To me it seems extremely strange that even the President of the Budget Commission, former member of the Foreign Affairs Commission, does not know that there is no agreement between Italy and the Holy See on this specific issue. It seems strange that I, the last of the citizens, should be catapulted here and should remind you that Article 80 of our Constitution - which now remains little of our fundamental Charter - says that international treaties - we are talking about a foreign state - must be ratified by Parliament. The ratification did not take place. So, this episode confirms to me that we're doing a little as we please. Are there other examples? Yes, as far as the appropriations for security and foreign affairs are concerned, this law of stability - as I said yesterday - is not before the events of Paris, but is anachronistic. Let me give you an example: do you know where 28% of our arms exports go? If you do not know, we tell you: in North Africa and the Middle East. But we do not say that and we do not intervene on this. Maybe, though, we're going to open a few construction sites in Saudi Arabia. And this, then, is the stability of the let's do as we please. Do we want to say another one? On the RAI fee I asked a question in the Budget Committee. Italians know that the RAI fee will be included in the electric bill, and therefore you will have a presumption of possession: they themselves will have to prove or not such possession. Well, I asked the following question: what if a citizen should not be able to pay a installment of the electricity bill where the RAI fee is also included? Will the electricity user be detached? We didn't get any answers. The only response we have received from both the Deputy Minister and the rapporteurs, who are currently absent from this House, was that it will certainly not be so. Such a response confirms that this is the law of stability of the we do a little as we please. Let me give you another example. Thanks to the adoption of a wonderful first-signed amendment by the Senator of the Democratic Party of Barba, the new case of benefit societies has been introduced. For those who have not understood it, these are societies which, in addition to their commercial purposes, also pursue one or more social purposes. This petty greenwashing operation - I would like to conclude by giving you this pearl - is about doing as we please. Senator Del Barba and the majority who voted on this amendment do not know that, pursuant to Legislative Decree No 155 of 24 March 2006, social enterprises already exist which pursue social purposes - only social purposes - and are not mentioned. As a result of this change, we will thus have societies - for example - which pollute and destroy our territory, but do one single operation of social enterprise, that is, benefit societies, and then we will have societies that only do social activities, but that are not benefits. You know what? I do not like this measure for a fundamental reason: it is the law of stability of the we do a little as we please. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u44	Madam President, when I finished my minority report, yesterday I announced my Group's vote against. Today, with the question of trust, the opposition increases and extends not so much to the Government - on the content of which we have already said - as to the relationship between the Government and Parliament and, unfortunately, to the colleagues of the majority. We did not make it easier for the Commission to work, but we did have a very coherent attitude in the Commission, in the hope that the House would be able to examine this bill thoroughly. More than anything else, it was about examining the shopping cart that had been offered to the Senate, almost as a social charter, in which the majority included measures for about 150 million euros, all absolutely fragmentary and contrary to logic, which had initially been ammanned and recommended, to avoid minimal measures. But since this shopping cart was not enough, it was increased and increased to 300 million, eliminating some tax reduction forecasts that had been included in the original text of the bill. Let me give an example for everyone: the reduction of VAT on pellets is worth - as is said in the budget jargon - about EUR 100 million. What prevented this Parliamentary Assembly from normally examining the draft law, inter alia considering that this branch of Parliament had already been mortified by the transmission of the measure with more than fifteen days of delay compared to the legislative forecasts and, therefore, forced to examine it in terms of time absolutely reductive, since the timetable provides for its definitive approval by Christmas? Then there was also the complete blocking of the possibility of dealing with major issues. In the meantime, the European Union has intervened, which is sending us back to April - we know that the final judgement on the stability law of individual states is being carried out at that time - but it does warn us strongly. Colleagues, you may have somewhat underestimated this aspect. During my work in the Commission I asked for the transmission of documents and I had the kind reply of Deputy Minister Morando. But the Minister for Economic Affairs did not intervene, who perhaps should have told us that the European Union had already raised serious concerns about the lack of adequate cuts to public expenditure in this law of stability. Perhaps it should also have, with true institutional correctness - it is not the one that emphasized President Tonini, and of which I will say shortly - to have the drafting and approval of the law accompanied, even in the Senate, by a new Note updating the Document of Economics and Finance, which is what will happen when the European Union stigmatizes the maneuver, after having overheard, also in order to allow the government to launch it (there is definitely a relationship of complicity between this Government and some control realities present in the European Union). As Mr Lucidi also said, it is a law that has little organic and many occasional pretexts and often, perhaps, even out of the ordinary. After the European Union has told us that we will have to review a lot of things, we will have to put in hand those changes that the Minister for Economic Affairs has not presented to us in time. So, our vote will be negative. With regard to the practice and supposed institutional correctness of the Government, in resubmitting an amendment of confidence equal to the text issued by the Commission, I would like to see if it had been done otherwise, since in this case a further injury to the prerogatives would have been made, which were not exercised, especially of the majority parties, who did not have the courage to impose on the Government the discussion of topics that were in the heart of the entire Assembly (their discussion was blocked by the Government). It is not this institutional correctness. It was necessary, however, to bring this measure to the House - we have not seen any obstructionist attitudes - and to devote a few days in this House to important issues and perhaps also to some secondary ones. The only thing that came was the minimal change of the little that had been done and that the reporters had also emphasized, about the convenient for people with disabilities. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator D'Alì. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Forgive me for closing with this notation, Madam President. There is such a strong reduction in the audience of potential beneficiaries that that rule will be absolutely ineffective. In essence, it is said to the citizens who want, who can give a comfortable to a differently skilled relative, possessing only one home. But, since the differently skilled relative normally lives with those who, rightly, provide for his needs, that standard becomes absolutely ineffective. It is therefore yet another mockery, yet another mirror for the lark. The effort certainly commendable of the rapporteur, in the end becomes a handful of flies, a shopping cart, which we could have approved in the ordinary ways. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u45	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u48	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, like Italy of Values, we voted positively when voting on the budget and the law of stability, because we recognise that the maneuver was of an expansive type, while believing that the allocation of money on certain expenditure chapters could be more incisive and courageous and less accommodating on other voices. The fact that the law of stability passed the examination of the European Union with reservation confirms the limited autonomy of the Italian Parliament and Government, as well as the fact that we are totally within the same constraints as the Europe of the times of Monti and Letta. Now, as then, we are forced into a Stability Pact with a balance of the budget included in the Constitution through Article 81; and this is not because of Italy's values, but - as my colleague Mr Candiani also said - perhaps rather because the Legist Giorgetti at the time was the rapporteur of this law that we are on the head today, and that we do not like, as you do. In any case, the examination of the measure carried out in the last twelve days by us parliamentarians, the rapporteurs and the Government has certainly made improvements to it. However, there remain limits on nodal points - for us in Italy of qualifying value points - such as pensions, the greater decontribution for recruitment to the South, property confiscated from the mafia, the use of cash and gambling. These are limits that the Government intends to face in the other branch of Parliament and, therefore, confident that this bill of stability will acquire greater merits in the House, today we will not participate in the vote. We reserve the right to give our assent when the law returns to the Senate at second reading.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u51	REPETTI (Misto-IPI). Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, the draft stability law under consideration is another decisive part of the work of this Government, which will help to speed up the exit from this very serious and to relaunch growth and development; a crisis that has hit all the advanced countries, but which has been more serious in Italy. To better understand things, it should be remembered that the Monti Government, in fact, was the European Commissioner for Italy: that was it. Monti had to act in a dramatic emergency with certainly questionable measures, but - we have to admit - they saved Italy from bankruptcy. However, since this Government was established, things have changed: Italy has begun to carry out reforms and not because Europe asked us to do so, but because they were and are necessary for our future. Today, in Europe, a new way of looking at fiscal consolidation is finally emerging, albeit timidly. In short, for years all of us have been calling for the overcoming of the Italian policy of only rigour, and now that this Government, thanks to the credibility gained with the approval of important reforms, has obtained greater flexibility, there are those who have the courage - and I want to add the face - not only not to recognize the important result achieved, but even to talk about a maneuver in deficit and, therefore, questionable. Ladies and gentlemen, it is understandable that faction in politics leads to partisan propaganda - it is there - but it is not understandable that it leads to failure to see reality and to deny the evidence. The realities, today, are a bill of stability that reduces taxes to businesses, families, freelancers, farmers and, at the same time, intervenes with measures in support of the weakest groups. The reality is that the recovery of the economy in Italy is higher than forecasts. A credible and serious opposition should admit it, and not go to the streets against a government that is reducing taxes when precisely this was the battlehorse of its program. Those who bet on the failure not only of the Government but also of Italy will soon have to deal with reality. I am convinced that this government has worked well so far, although much remains to be done. So, forward like this, Mr. Deputy Minister, and Italy will return to being a competitive country, where everyone will come back to invest, starting with our boys, who will no longer be forced to go abroad. [[Applause from the Mixed-IPI and Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and Senator Bianconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u54	BONFRISCO (CoR). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my explanation of vote from the opposition benches by expressing a non-rhetorical appreciation of the work carried out by the entire 5th Commission chaired by Senator Tonini and, in particular, by the two rapporteurs. These have innovated a method that has consolidated the great parliamentary guarantees that the Senate system and regulations help to form in the confrontation between Government and Parliament, and also in the continuum between Government and majority, in the deep respect of the modalities and procedures to protect oppositions. And I continue to appreciate it. I appreciate the stability law under consideration that we have intervened on a taxation on the first house that we Conservatives and Reformists, together with many other opposition forces, have always supported as necessary to the Italian economy, but even more so to the system of Italian families, which is in itself an extraordinary economic system. That unjust taxation, that taxation inaugurated by the infamous Monti Government, has finally been eliminated and we can only appreciate it. Just as we appreciate other small and great things about maneuvering. Let me mention a few: firstly, our proposals, which have been accepted, such as, for example, to make the rule that allows all investments to be combined into a kind of super-abmortization - as it is technically defined - in order to dilute the tax burden on companies. This would have been in vain if, on the other hand, we had not accepted our proposal that all this should inevitably be excluded from the sector studies. If this had not been the case, the rule on super-depreciation, which has been so much praised, would not have had any effect and, above all, would have been a deception on the part of the undertakings. I also considered it important - and this is why we have proposed it so strongly in the light of the hearings held with economic groups and associations of various kinds - that it was clear and clear (and above all unifying throughout the national territory) that the structural funds could also be accessed by professionals, not only by companies. In fact, we consider professionals to be a fundamental pillar of our economy and they are responsible, especially in the current crisis, for a surplus of work. We owe particular attention to the various categories of the world of professions, to the demand that they be development promoters. I also welcome the fact that in this text we have overcome that issue which has been tormenting the consciences of so many of us for a few years, namely stem cell research and that the tragic disease of ALS should be given due attention in one of the paragraphs of this law of stability. And we hope that it will be dedicated even more in the future, because in addition to ALS many other tragic diseases afflict many children who are born in our country and who once did not know each other. These children are probably orphans of their future, but also of those drugs that can cure them, those drugs that need to advance in research. Here: the research, which is covered by this law of stability, we must direct towards the progress and development of our community and of our country, so that its fruit is the end of a virtuous path that supports it, but can also translate concretely into benefits and benefits for the social system, as well as for the economic one. I will stop here, Madam President, because I would also like to express our great regret at the opportunity this law of stability loses. Since the presentation of the DEF we have imagined a public finance maneuver for the next year that more than a bet - as someone wanted to define it - was a certain hazard. The examination of this law of stability, in fact - as Senator D'Ali has already pointed out in general discussion, and it is a sort of cart of spending the intervention although commendable and, for us, appreciable of the relators - has highlighted the contradictions and ambiguities of the Government, between the things that it says and should not say and those that it does not say when instead it should say them. The President of the Council is blatantly denied by the flexibility which has been so well sold but which Brussels has not yet given him. And this must worry us, and not because we necessarily care about those constraints but because, in order to conquer that flexibility that we hope today can be granted to our country, the Italians have supported many and many sacrifices. And, then, that flexibility had to be asked - in our opinion - to bring relief to the Italians, and not only with what little has been done, but adding to it an extraordinary source of resources to be made available to the Italian companies; resources that had to come from a careful, precise and above all effective spending review. This is the maneuver that is missing. This is the Achilles heel of the law of stability under consideration. Just when a few very small percentages indicate a positive path, we do not take advantage of it to improve and strengthen that figure and make it effective from here to the next three years. With a very narrow horizon of a maximum of one year, if not six months, we simply ask for the possibility of debt again. And certainly we will be given the opportunity to be in debt again, so that debt will always be paid by us. Nothing is given to us, nothing. Not even on the subject of immigration - it is on what the flexibility clause has been able to trigger - we have been able to seize the opportunities and, instead of dedicating resources to the few things we have done, we should have focused on the problem that it poses to us, that is, what security to implement. Those 3 billion had to be destined also and above all to guarantee our country a better defense from the human bomb of immigration than what is being done today. The 4 billion spending reviews are really little compared to the 10 planned and I want to remind especially to Deputy Minister Morando, who in his parliamentary career has always had such attention to the spending review. Today we are faced with the mouse born by this law of stability, which the only cut that it provides is that of the commissioners of the spending review, and they know something of it Cottarelli and Perotti himself, who resigned declaring himself dissatisfied with the work of the Government. And can we blame him? No, because between a reduction in expenditure on goods, services and public personnel, rationalization of the companies involved by municipalities, provinces and regions and various measures of efficiency, our proposal estimated a possible saving of 20 billion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator Bonfrisco. BONFRISCO (CoR). Here, with those 20 billion we could have done much more in this law of stability and given some certainty to those notorious safeguard clauses so that they do not take off, and instead they will take off. The horizon of this law of stability stops, in fact, at the end of 2016, when already May 1, 2016 will trigger 2 billion more taxation if the effects of the return of capital, which we so much hope, will not be there. And we know that it will be very difficult for it to bear the desired fruit. Let us hope, then, not to be here in a few months to invent new taxes, because this will see, as always, our strong opposition. And we also hope that, in the meantime, the winds of war that revolve around our country do not translate into serious economic losses, even before human. We take this into account, which should have been considered in a law of stability, but it is not. There remains the bitterness of seeing a law of stability that does not address the problems of the future, but only those of the next six months. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u57	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI)). Madam President, I would like to begin by saying that it is the maneuver that is not there, the maneuver that might have been desired and, by the same admission of the Government, but also of several representatives of the majority in this House, the things that could and could be there. This is in the face of a real and immediate need. How many things have been referred back to the law of stability? How many things, in this solar year that turns towards the end, have been said that they would find an answer in the State's law of stability for the year 2016? How many things in this law of stability, for which we even ask for trust today, are simply hidden and postponed? I am not talking about the most striking data available to us. A financial maneuver that had started its journey in the Budget Committee on the basis of a premise that had been indicated to us by both the Government and the rapporteurs, according to which we could all put our own in the construction of two fundamental headings for the life of the country: security and the Mezzogiorno of Italy. Several times we have heard, in the proclamations of the majority, say that the Mezzogiorno of Italy was an affair that concerned not a geographical part of the Country, but the overall growth of the Country, and that, if Italy wanted to return to compete again and to occupy the top positions in the European ranking (and also in a wider spectrum), it would have to solve - and this would have been the occasion - the issue of the Mezzogiorno; a Mezzogiorno that not only does not grow like the rest of the Country, but that falls back and becomes increasingly ballast for its overall growth. As you have seen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, we have withdrawn the safety and Mezzogiorno amendments. We have believed that. As you have seen, we did not even technically reject our amendments, so that we could have the opportunity to propose them again in this House, using a very normal parliamentary technique. We did not do that; we believed in it and we believed that there was a real spirit of will on these two headings, in order to resolve, in this financial manoeuvre, the issues of safety and the Mezzogiorno. On the last day, after the last night of about 2 a.m., we are told instead that for these two headings there is nothing to report in this bill of stability. We are told, by Deputy Minister Morando, that there is no capacity to identify either the forms or the way and that the parliamentary debate, which had already been interrupted in order to assess what forms to take of these interventions, which were the most effective and which were the most appropriate in an open debate in Parliament, will again be abruptly interrupted by a political will of this Government. I would like to ask the representative of the Government, Deputy Minister Morando, at least to avoid the trouble in this House of Parliament. In your reply yesterday, I found it very insulting, Madam President. He said he was surprised that someone in the parliamentary debate said that nothing had been done about the Mezzogiorno. I would not like him to be misunderstood in the shorthand, but I would like to refer here to the statements made by Deputy Minister Morando, who said that he believed that this branch of Parliament has done a great deal, because it has gone through a whole series of proposals, all intelligent and all useful for the development of the Mezzogiorno. But let me say this, Mr Morando, in a chat of coffee; when you come to this branch of Parliament do so with so much respect and come and say that there is no talk in Parliament; it is not that, because it is called Parliament, we can just talk. In this Parliament we speak and act, when we do not have a hostile government, a government that does not even have the most larved and distant idea of the strategy for the country. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] Take responsibility for what you claim or fail to support. You do not have a policy for the Mezzogiorno and security. This is now being certified in this branch of Parliament. Quod voluit, potuit, dixit, fecit; but you do not want, you cannot, you do not say. You only use propaganda, you created a smoke screen. You went a few weeks ago to say on television that you would make the bridge over the Strait of Messina: go up a smokescreen to hide with smoke the absence of the roast, the nothingness of the proposal, absolute nothingness, zero regarding the resolution of real and real problems, those that become flesh and blood daily on the shoulders of our small and medium-sized agricultural, craft, commercial and industrial enterprises. That certification of the Mezzogiorno of which the SVIMEZ speaks for you is rag paper, for you it is not worry, for you it is not government action. All this cannot go unnoticed. I am referring to those forces that are about to give confidence to this Government today on the basis of this maneuver. Friends of the NCD, you too have participated, in recent days, saying that thanks to the presence of this formation in the government beehive you do things that would have been done from the benches of the center right and in a different view from the themes of the Mezzogiorno. Where are you, dear friends? If participation in the Government is not simply the occupation of an armchair, this is the moment when one reacts and when one asserts the numbers and the decisiveness of a government group. I believe in your real battles, which you have waged during so many years of political life for the benefit of the Mezzogiorno, so that it can have the strength to resume the path of growth. I do not want to believe Luttwak, who claims that the only way to Sicily is to ask for secession and create its own development system based on the free market in the Mediterranean. I don't want to believe it because I feel Italian and belonging to the history of this country and this nation of ours. But you do not make the ascari and, crossing the Strait of Messina, you do not become servants, please, of policies that increase the desire to move away from a state that feels enemy, hostile, a State that, at least, is felt as distracted. That's not possible. What we are called today, ladies and gentlemen, is also a gesture of absolute freedom from a will. It is not possible to fall into the traps of propaganda; a propaganda that then obliges us, in parliamentary acts, to do the worst for our country: bad constitutional reforms, bad economic reforms. They are not recipes for development, but ways to hide the dust under the carpet. With this financial manoeuvre, we postpone the debt to future generations. We are making a financial manoeuvre in debt, without addressing the fundamental issue of the ballast that we have been carrying for years, postponed to the next generations. But be careful, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament; you who vote supinously because you think you are occupying this parliamentary group for a few more months, know that history teaches us this: when a government tends to postpone to future economic exercises the maneuvers that must be done... PRESIDENT. You have to finish, Senator. MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI)). ... it does so to prepare the current electoral consensus with respect to the problems left to future governments that will come. This is the maneuver of a government that wants to make the most of the propagandistic benefit in order to leave to future governments the solution of the nodes and problems; this is a government that with the economic maneuver under consideration wants to prepare for the electoral campaign. For this reason, while respecting the different positions in my parliamentary group, for which there will be senators who will vote for confidence in a different way of seeing and conceiving the maneuver, I declare the vote against myself and the majority of the Group. [[Senator Milo's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u60	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-Minister, the law of stability is an electoral manoeuvre for Renzi, since the skilled Premier has focused it on the elimination of TASI on the first house and agricultural IMU. However, just to refresh the memory of the Italians, this cancellation of taxes brings back the state of things to 2011, when both gabelle were not there. In fact, it was already since 2009 that the then ICI on the first house had been removed by the League and by the then majority, not without fierce attacks of the Democratic Party. Then came the appointed premier, Monti, who since 2012 introduced the IMU and re-introduced the assets on the first house; after two years, the government of the second appointed premier Letta invented the TASI, and finally last year the current premier named Renzi had the genius to hit the world of agriculture introducing the agricultural IMU. In four years, with these unfortunate choices, we have gone from an ICI revenue of 9 billion in 2011 to a growing IMU revenue, which has reached the peak of 25 billion per year. In these years have been removed to Italians, families, artisans, professionals and businesses 15 billion more each year, for a total of extra-levy of 60 billion. This dramatically accelerated the crisis in the real estate market and caused the closure and failure of thousands of construction companies, resulting in the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs. Bravo, congratulations! This is the heavy legacy and great responsibility that we attach to these three governments of nominations and to the main political force in their support, that is, the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] ; A Democratic Party that today changes its mind and that, with many bellyaches of the internal minority, clears the two jumps. However, what we of the North League do not share is the financial coverage of the operation, which amounts to 4 billion, and in general of all the maneuver, which amounts to 28 billion net of the migrant clause, for which our country is - scholastically speaking - postponed to April. In fact, there are 15-18 billion more debt, linear cuts to the Regions, new licenses for gambling (is this the cure of Ludopathy?), but crumbs and only crumbs from the much trumpeted spending review, once again failed, as certified by the resignation of Professor Perotti. We stress that 16.8 billion are being used to defuse your safeguard clauses, created by your governments; however, the increase in VAT and excise duties is not averted, because it is ready to take action since 2017. Mr. Deputy Minister, you confirm that the maneuver is expansive, but everyone is able to spend the money without having it in his pocket and making loans, therefore debt, and downloading the problem to future generations. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Sustain that the maneuver will lower taxes, but reports say that tax revenues will increase by €12 billion in 2016. To enter into the merit of the measure starting from some of the promises missed, it must be said that there was no restoration of the gas discount for the territory near the regasifier of Porto Viro in Veneto. 11:45 a.m. (Follow Arrigoni). The VAT cut on heating pellets was then skipped, which remains at 22%. Renzi had promised to bring the tax back to 10%, but once again he made fun of consumers, especially those in mountain areas. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Moreover, it was necessary to make a check-in, that 96 million were needed to feed the pellet fund, from which to draw with full hands to satisfy the various Members of Parliament of the majority. This isn't happening. Not only did you despise the North, but you also left the Mezzogiorno with a dry mouth, waiting for answers on serious initiatives for its economic recovery. You just confirmed the bad funding for socially useless jobs. You have not revised the Fornero law, the main obstacle to the entry of young people into the world of work and even definitively solved the problem of exodus created by this inauspicious law. You have not solved the problem of the female option that, I point out, is not an extension kindly granted by Renzi, but a sanatoria of a serious mistake of the INPS. You have not touched the problem of pensioners who are hungry: more than four out of ten have a cheque less than 1,000 euros; the League does not say so, but the social balance of the INPS according to which, of the 15 million pensioners, almost two have cheques less than 500 euros, and these, Deputy Minister Morando, are still waiting for the bonus of 80 euros promised them in 2014 by Renzi. You have not given answers to the Provinces that, with the continuous and progressive cuts inflicted by the last law of stability, will fail by blocking the provision of services, the maintenance of thousands of kilometers of roads, the maintenance and heating of hundreds of high schools. Download again to the municipalities all the problems that will be amplified in society, especially those that touch social services; moreover, you have assumed norms that humiliate especially the virtuous ones. You have rejected the introduction of a sacrosanct fund of rewards, since the refreshment of the lack of TASI revenue will be integral for everyone, and therefore will laugh at that spending administration that put the rate to the maximum, while it will remain mocked that ant administration, sparing, that pulled the belt until it breathes, so as not to overburden the families. Also the constraint in the next three years of 25 percent of the staff turnover will be devastating especially for the small municipalities, which already count today few units of staff to own dependents. To the regions, then, at the moment, few answers have been given to the sacred requests of the governors. For now there are the 4 billion cuts, which also include cutting at the National Health Fund. Still linear cuts without the application of standard costs, to which, I remember, are added the other 7.7 billions that come from your previous measures. It disappoints support for families. Do not cover yourself behind the extension of parental leave of fathers or babysitting: in currency are little compared to the lack of refinancing of the fund of 115 million for interventions to favor families and especially for the realization of kindergartens, which disappears since 2016. You failed the North League amendment, shame! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] There is little for new investments. The resources for land defense works against hydrogeological failure are still ridiculous. We have a fragile territory, falling apart, which continuously records landslides, landslides, floods. There will still be too much work on the emergency and little on prevention. These are the exceptional events for which the government had to fight in Europe to have budget flexibility rather than immigration! Finally, after everything that happened last week in Paris, it was serious that they did not want to allocate resources immediately, here in the Senate, to strengthen the country's security apparatus and implement an effective plan against the pressing terrorist threat. Mr President, Italians are very concerned about this Islamic terrorism and are shocked by the high percentage of Muslims living here who justify the attacks in Paris, where 130 people have been massacred. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This is inhumane and worrying. The Italians had to be reassured by an immediate and clear choice to guarantee them and the country freedom and security. Instead, we are shocked to see the babbling of members of the Government and Premier Renzi who are planning to face the cutters with ice cream in hand, as he continues not to propose concrete solutions to stem the danger. The priority today is citizens' security. Therefore, Renzi demands that the European Union grant flexibility with the exception of exceptional events to invest immediately one billion for security and counter-terrorism and not for immigration where, for the reception system, hundreds of millions are wasted to give for months, if not years, food, accommodation and telephone card to tens of thousands of economic migrants - therefore illegal - who do not run away from wars and persecutions. In the House perhaps something should be done, but we here today fire a text that marks for 2016 a cut of 500 million to the public order and security mission. A shameful cut that shows how irresponsible this government is. Finally, in the area of security, we condemn the ridiculous allocation of only 74 million for the renewal of contracts for the Armed Forces and the Forces of Order. You reward their honored service and daily risks with less than 10 euros per month. It's a shame! With these bitter considerations, together with the shameful, humiliating, for Parliament, further recourse to the question of trust, while acknowledging the commitment to the work carried out in the Budget Commission by all the members and in particular by the two rapporteurs, whom we thank together with Deputy Minister Morando and Commission officials, I firmly declare the vote against the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bernini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u63	Mr Barani (AL-A). The Liberal Popular-Autonomous Alliance Group will not be able to vote for the government's confidence in the law of stability. It will not be able to do so in the light of what happened during the debate in the Budget Committee, and not just because many of the amending proposals, which have also been put forward, have been rejected. I quote a few: the abolition of the agricultural IMU for all; the use of the management surpluses for the regions with the return plans for health benefits; the resuscitation manoeuvres of the economy and the occupation of the South, which has a completely flat electroencephalogram, and some other proposals on safety. But we will not be able to do so above all because of the attitude of the Democratic Party. In the face of a collaborative position on the part of all oppositions, there has been a strong discount within the relative majority party, which has monopolised almost all the time available to the Commission itself. I still have in my ears the speeches of Senators De Biasi and Rich and other colleagues of the Democratic Party. A debate, on the other hand, lunar in many respects, focused mainly on symbolic elements - from the exemption of the first house to the cash - which have little or nothing to do with the maneuver as a whole. These elements reflect only the ancient "bellyaches" that characterize this political formation and that, however, demonstrate an overall fragility of the governmental structures also in the difficult relationship with the colleagues of the New Right Centre, which is poorly reconciled with the gravity of the problems that the country is called to face. Despite this, our judgment on the public finance maneuver underlying this bill of stability cannot be negative. Unlike the past years we are faced with an expansive maneuver that could be improved (and we hope that this happens in the House), but that nevertheless has the sign "more" and moves in coherence with the trends of the international markets. Markets that, unlike the past, are not forerunners of expansive impulses, according to which to be able to advance hypotheses of financial containment, because so much to pull is the foreign demand. On the contrary, they fuel deflationary pressures that can only be countered by leveraging more dynamic domestic demand. And that is the need to promote the consumption of households, thanks to a reduction in the tax burden on the first home, focusing on a recovery of domestic investment and on forms of support for employment, as well as on the fight against the most odious forms of poverty. The distinctive features of this law of stability, says Deputy Minister Morando. Moreover, these are the elements that characterize our reality. In 2012, Italy's distance from the Eurozone average in terms of growth was 1.9 points of GDP. In 2016, this scissors will only shrink to 0.3 points of GDP, according to the European Commission's forecasts. It is a tiring chase, therefore, lasting years, which only now begins to give some results, which we still consider insufficient, but which would be self-harmful not wanting to recognize. We would therefore have expected that this figure would have been taken into account in the debate in the Commission, rather than following the logic of identity, as was the case for a large part of the Democratic Party, unable to get out of the fence of a pastist vision. If these issues had been addressed, instead of obsession with important but marginal aspects, we would have made a better contribution to understanding what should be the objectives to be pursued and we could have pursued them immediately, if we did not want to fall back in a sterile and inconclusive debate in a few months' time. 2016 appears to be an important window. Thanks to the increased flexibility that has been gained in Europe, we have, Mr Deputy Minister, "buy time." But it is a time that will run out quickly if we do not find a longer-term strategy. Let us not forget that in 2017 we should reduce net debt from 2, 2, 2, 2 per cent of GDP to programmatic 0.8%, as indicated in the Update Note to the DEF, and then reach the year after the budget balance. We are talking about an order of magnitude of about 30 billion, just to correct the "tendential" of which 17 are necessary to neutralize the old and new safeguard clauses, which we have reduced, but not neutralized. Otherwise, the increase in VAT and excise duties will become inevitable. To achieve this goal, we need a drastic and immediate commitment to the spending review: the large absence of this financial manoeuvre. These are long, complex and tiring procedures that take time, but above all political cohesion based on strong policy convergence. It is the exact opposite of the precarious political balances that characterize this majority, which are still too weak and uncertain to deal with such a complex issue, as we have once again seen, because it is deeply divided within itself between the opposing drives to delay, if not to prevent, the start of the necessary reform process. This is what Italy needs to avoid the inconsistency of linear cuts, which do not solve problems. It is a second phase of the reforms, after the changes of the constitutional arrangements. These must be reforms that invest all branches of public administration - both at national and local level. We have also had further proof of this during this budgetary session when we heard the protests of the Regions in the face of proposals to cut their transfers, which will only affect the future as the health expenditure ceiling for 2016 has been increased by one billion euros. The cuts are undoubtedly painful, in the current institutional arrangements, but it is precisely these structures that need to be changed in order to make possible those innovations from which they can depend, at the same time, cost cuts and greater efficiency in the provision of the related public services. According to ISTAT, it is enough to take the accounts of the public administration, the current regional expenditure of the total total expenditure from 1995 to 2006 has increased from 12.6 to 19.1 percent, with an increase of more than 50%. Since 2006 it has stabilized, but only thanks to the linear cuts of the various financial maneuvers. As of 2006, health expenditure on total current regional expenditure has fallen from 81.6 per cent to 73.6 per cent. These figures show that, behind the screen of demands for increased health care expenditure, there is much more to be done, such as being able to have increasing resources for purposes which have little to do with the health of citizens. This margin, given the difference between health expenditure and total expenditure, has in fact increased from 26 billion in 2006 to 39 billion euros in 2013. These figures do not appear in the document submitted by the Regions at their parliamentary hearing. The explanation of the omission is evident: better to choose from flower to flower to support your claims. But this is not even the surprising fact: the truth is that the Italian Regions, seen as one unit, are not aware of the state of their public finance considered as a whole. In other words, each President of the Region looks only at his own vegetable garden, forgetting, as Totò would say, that it is the sum that makes the total. However, if you look at this last magnitude, the failures of the administrative disorder are evident. If you want to actually spend review, it is therefore time to grab the bull by the horns. The current institutional structure of the country can only generate dysfunctions that inevitably affect the overall balance of public finance. The choices made so far, including the obligation to balance the budget, at both national and local levels, only solve the problem to a very small extent. In other words, they allow to stabilize public finance, but not to create those spaces necessary to reduce the tax pressure, reached in Italy to unsustainable levels. Hence the need for that second period which I mentioned earlier and only partially initiated with the reform of public administration, which must however be closely linked with that of local power in order to avoid duplication, overlaps, uncertainties in its borders and so on. We will then see at a later stage whether this effort should correspond to the establishment of macro regions or large areas. The important thing is to start with the right foot and the necessary speed because we have seen how exhausting the debate on issues of this magnitude can be. What has happened to constitutional reforms is a warning that cannot be overlooked, especially since the issues to be addressed will probably have a greater political density. I therefore end my speech with the hope of having a cohesive majority in the future. The positive elements that are also found in the financial manoeuvre do not compensate for the uncertainties, shadow areas and contradictions that characterize it, especially if these elements are seen in perspective. This prevents the approval that parliamentary procedures require at the time when the issue of trust arises. Hence the sense of our vote against. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u66	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, last October, in its report to Parliament, the Government updated towards the medium-term objective the so-called return plan, i.e. the path towards achieving the objective of balanced budget in structural terms contained in the 2015 DEF. On this occasion, the Government, in order to strengthen the first signs of recovery of GDP growth and the fiscal consolidation process, expressed its intention to fully use the flexibility margins and temporarily deviate from the path towards achieving the objective. We can say that most of the measures then indicated by the Government in the Update Note (on which there was a very interesting debate in Parliament and beyond) were included in the text of the draft stability law for 2016 which was then presented to us. Beginning with the neutralization of the safeguard clause relating to increases in excise duties and VAT. This measure is in line with what is already foreseen in the 2015 DEF and confirmed in the Update Note and in our opinion will contribute (even if citizens do not perceive it immediately) to eliminating those uncertainties that certainly do not please the production system and taxpayers. As explained yesterday by the Deputy Minister, we also trust in the effectiveness of the maneuver and subsequent interventions so that they can be neutralized in the years to come. The same goes for the elimination of taxation on the first house. The measure, in our view, is only fully understood if it is included in a multiannual programme for lowering taxes and taxes. We therefore hope that it will be taken as an opportunity by taxpayers and that it will translate positively on the economy, in terms of increased consumption: this is essential to help the recovery of the economy and also that of inflation. On the same line we move the rules that provide not to tax the buildings necessary for production, the so-called bolted ones, and the agricultural land. Adopting such measures means not only reducing the tax burden, but also simplifying life for entrepreneurs and further stimulating growth. I also add the cut in IRES and the IRAP exemption in agriculture, which is a sector that more than others is responsible for creating new jobs. These measures, which I have just mentioned, combined with the reforms initiated by the Government and implemented, in the various areas of work, tax, in particular public administration (in respect of which we urge the enactment of legislative decrees) and justice, will allow to fully regain the credibility of the institutions, by citizens, markets and companies, which are returning to invest. The maneuver presented to Parliament is ambitious and courageous, but it is precisely the courage that enables us to face the toughest challenges. What is contained in the bill at our examination, the expansionary measures, which form the backbone of the measure, are proof that the Government, in order to make the recovery take off fully, exploits all the present and future possibilities, with courage. The government, in fact, in order to implement the interventions it considers necessary for the real economic growth of the country, exploits all the possible margins of flexibility, which we hope the European Union and the Commission can recognize, once overcome the reservations expressed a few days ago. After so long, we can finally think about a document which presents us with a maneuver that meets the needs of taxpayers, businesses, but also the weakest groups. The examination of the text presented by the Commission has further enriched its content, so as to make it, in our opinion, also through changes to some parts originally present, better suited to the expectations that had been placed on it. Many issues have been dealt with in the Budget Committee. Many of the questions proposed have found solutions shared in the final text, thanks to the willingness of the Government, who has been able to listen to both the majority and the opposition groups, despite the legitimate diversity of opinions, and also thanks to the active commitment of the rapporteurs, who - I would like to remind you - have never been biased and have been able to distangle themselves among the countless proposals for amendments presented, managing to prepare texts, which have often transposed most of the issues, requested in a cross-cutting way. This - I repeat - must be acknowledged to the great work of the rapporteurs. The resulting text, incorporated in the maxi amendment on which the Government has placed its trust, is, in our view, inclusive and respectful of parliamentary work. We can say that last night was a good page of parliamentary activity; a sign of a democracy that, if it wants, knows how to work, knows how to listen, make a summary and then decide. It has certainly not been possible to respond to everything: certain measures, such as those aimed at the growth and development of the Mezzogiorno, are lacking in the call for action to promote employment and investment by enterprises. These rules must be well developed in order to avoid mistakes that have been made in the past. We have not had the opportunity here to do so fully, and we hope that once we have had the security emergency, which has conditioned our work - and this has to be said - imposed by the tragic events in Paris and for which the Government will have to allocate appropriate funds, and with the delicate and thorny funding of the social security exodus, these issues will still be resolved or initiated successfully in the other branch of Parliament. I am not going to dwell on the content of the draft law presented, but only on certain issues which the Commission has dealt with and resolved in practice, in particular those which we call for as a Group. I start from what concerns in particular the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano: the confirmation of the guarantee pact of 2014; the agenda of the agreement with the Val D'Aosta Region, to which the Executive has undertaken to give a positive solution in 2016; the provision in the matter of popular building; the provisions that provide that all acts and measures in execution of the plans of land recomposition and land reorder are exempt from registration taxes, mortgage, cadastral and stamp; the reduction of the cut provided for the CAFs and for the patrons; the tax concessions for the individual entrepreneurs who own instrumental properties, who can opt for the exclusion of these assets. This is a measure which will generate revenue and which, in our view, will be essential to further stimulate growth. Moreover, the measure that puts at the expense of the State the expenses for clinical-instrumental and laboratory investigations aimed at verifying the possession of the requirements of psychophysical fitness of the volunteers of the fire department (also this is a measure of great attention in a country that often has to deal with emergencies); the norm regarding the cash that travels through the service of money transfers, also in this case requested by the Groups both by majority and opposition; the institution of the national fund of genomes, that will allow to equip the Country with a strategy on national genomics, filling a gap that in a few years could have seen us - as public health system - completely dependent from abroad for knowledge and healing strategies. A warning also deserves the interventions in favour of families and the poverty that are added or improved those already foreseen in the text of the Government. The President of the Council in his statements and speeches often uses expressions such as "necessity for an overall political strategy" or "programs that look far away," meaning that the action of the Government is not limited to giving solutions to the contingent, but addresses the nodes that have always hindered the development of our country through a policy of reforms, often structural, whose positive effects are not immediately perceptible. This has led to profound innovations at the moment, which are breaking that thick network of privileges, often corporate, source of inequalities, which have ended up representing a heavy ball at the foot of our economy. Here, we look with favor and full readiness to this healthy action of renewal and we are convinced that only through serious structural reforms, which aim at growth and development, is it possible to put our country in the best condition to face the challenges posed by the complex international competition. Having said that, we trust that in the area of VAT on pellets rather than on other issues that have remained open we can find a solution in the other branch of Parliament. This is the first reading, the provision will go to the House for the second reading; therefore, we trust that, when it returns here to the Senate for the final reading, even on other issues the Government has been able to find further margins in order to give answers. To conclude, for the Group for the PSI-MAIE Autonomies this measure places another piece on that series of interventions that move in the right direction undertaken by the Government. That is why we will vote for it with conviction. [[Applause from the Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u69	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I had written one thing, but I will say another because I think that the debate today should talk about a budgetary and financial maneuver from the Senate but that it will not remain the same when it comes out of the House. The events of these days and hours will end up affecting, and not a little, the nature of the financial maneuver and the budget items around the issues of security, the guarantee of the citizens of our country and of the European citizens and therefore what we should have said, and that in part we will say to motivate our vote against, would end up appearing, compared to these issues, a little distant and difficult to understand. I say this for the debate that has developed in these hours where we have also focused on small issues that I think will end up being progressively shelved. The great things in front of us will stand. That is why, Mr President, although the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Deputy Minister Morando know very well that we would have liked this financial manoeuvre to be expansive and that it would move within an area of possible economic policy, it will be very conditioned precisely by the events already happening and by those that are happening in these hours, because it is our life that will be conditioned, it is our needs that will be different, it is our ability to produce that will decline in a substantially different way and, as much as everyone says that everything continues as before, nothing will continue as before, for obvious reasons. Mr President, two issues are extracted from this financial manoeuvre, one of which is a general principle that should always be remembered when making an act of general economic policy such as this, the theme of the issues, that is, the great difficulty of these times: putting together what is different, what starts from totally different conditions. When we in the general debate in the Commission told Deputy Minister Morando that for us the main issue, what is lacking in this financial maneuver, is that of a serious policy of territorial rebalancing, a serious policy of relaunching the economic activity of the Mezzogiorno and its ability to produce, we thought to launch a financial maneuver integrating this aspect that was, yes, this really expansive because the expansionary capacity cannot be measured only through the provision of greater liquidity through a fiscal contraction of the taxes that are due to the State, both those that benefit the company, as in the case of decontribution, and those that benefit the worker, as in the case of interventions on the IRAP and the famous 80 euros, and those that benefit families, for example with the cancellation of taxes on real estate, TASI also to the enterprise and especially the agricultural enterprise with the removal from the agricultural IMU that we had asked (I say this is a positive figure) a few months before the Government, when we discussed the regulations on agriculture. Not only on this, therefore, but on the ability to produce, on how it was necessary to invest in growth, which means to reactivate, especially in the productive areas that paid the highest price of the crisis, the ability to make economy. But this issue, which has been asked by all and which was initially transposed by the Government, was then removed from the financial maneuver. And when, in the last few hours of the debate in the Commission, this issue was expounded, we had already withdrawn, as in a sort of credit concession to the Government that had committed itself to this issue, our amendments that dealt with this issue, in the direction that the Government had proposed for the rest of the country, namely the decontribution and reduction of the tax burden. Not even this, therefore, has been done and has been sent back - it is said - to the House. I do not know what will happen in the next few hours and days, but I am sure of one thing, Mr President: that we will not be able to do without, in the examination of this measure in the House, taking into account the change in the objective conditions on which we intervene, which also modify the macroeconomic framework of reference. The fearful contractions of the world trade market, contained in all the analyses that have been given to us in the general discussion, will be obvious and we will not be able to avoid taking account of them also with respect to the possibilities of growth. We therefore no longer have the certainty that the indices indicated will be respected; we no longer have the certainty of growth as measured because the events, which do not depend on our will and certainly not on the will of the Government, are taking place and we will have the obligation, which will be repeated to us also in the international and community, to review part of our forecasts and to understand how we will have to direct our productive capacity, the way in which we organize our society, how to protect our services, especially those essential ones. We will have to review everything in the light of the events that are unfortunately taking place. To this, Mr President, it must be added that these events have a root which is systematically reproposed in the debate that accompanies us in recent months and years. I am referring to the differences, which we have been able to make so wide, between those who suffer and those who have everything and beyond, the differences that pass between the North and the South of the country, between the North and the South of Europe and the world. If we are not able to operate genuine policies of cohesion and the consolidation of this gap, of narrowing the barrage of rights, before economies, we will not be able to make any kind of actually expansive maneuver, because any maneuver will be reduced to almost nothing because of these emergencies, of these human tragedies that are carried out not only in civilized countries, more economically advanced, but also in those who suffer most from discrimination and oppression towards man. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u72	Mr Azzollini (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, if this bill of stability is to be properly framed, it must be understood in what new context it has been conceived and laid down. The context comes from two very important circumstances. The first, also highlighted, with intellectual honesty in its own right, by Deputy Minister Morando in this House, concerns the maneuvers that had been made in recent years, particularly since 2010, which have put the deficit-GDP ratio under control more than in any other country, with the exclusion of Germany. Today Italy certainly needs to improve, but meanwhile it has a deficit-GDP ratio among the best in Europe and this comes from the maneuvers that have followed over the years, starting from 2010. At the same time, this bill of stability comes from reflection on those same maneuvers, which were actually rethought because it was considered necessary to avoid their recessive effects and focus on growth. From this arise the flexibility margins granted, on which, however, the action of the Italian Government has affected in a profound and significant way. This gave rise to a financial that could bet on the country's growth and did it not as a blind bet, but as a bet that lies within these parameters and a vision more suited to the needs of Italy, which Europe also has thanks to the action of the Italian Government. This is how this bill of stability was born, of which I remember briefly, but incisively (not even the work we did to the Senate) the essential traits. In fact, this bill of stability is more balanced in the relationship between demand maneuvers and supply maneuvers. On the offer, it should be remembered that the decontribution on the cost of labour has been confirmed: in a lesser way than in the past years, but it has been confirmed. It has not been stressed enough that this is considered unanimously one of the measures that are contributing to the improvement of the conditions of Italian growth. While on the demand side, there is no doubt - even here the dialectic between the Italian Government and Europe has been incisive - that an important measure is represented by a dry reduction of the taxes of the house and the agricultural IMU, which I consider an important measure of the law of stability, as launched by the Government and reached the Senate. This is the context, which we must not forget, on which the Senate has worked. And the Senate has worked in my opinion by significantly improving some of these settings. The first and most important is the IMU and the TASI. I would like to remind everyone that the Senate introduced the abolition of the IMU and the TASI on the houses granted in comodate to children, parents and disabled people, more precisely relatives of second degree (but of course in the explanation of vote I will focus only on general issues). I have not heard of a measure here, but it is important from the point of view of the security effort and which I think is particularly important, coming from the South: the IMU and the TASI have also been abolished for the military and the forces of order that do not have a house and are rented: it is a measure that helps to calm our men, military and the forces of order, engaged at this moment in sacrifices of a particular nature. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]] It had to be remembered, because it seems to me a significant aspect. Equally important on this side is the 25% reduction in IMU and TASI for rents agreed: this is an important measure in this context. Similarly, not in detail is the reduction, which I think is very significant, of the cuts to CAAFs and patrons. I remind everyone that the CAAF cut has been reduced from 100 million to 40 million: 60 million cuts have therefore been recovered. As has been reduced by 20 million the cut on the patrons: it is an important measure because, in my opinion, these are issues that immediately affect people who, at this time, need concrete support even in the intricate world of fulfillment, which we will simplify and the better. Equally important is the issue of money transfers, particularly in relation to this moment, i.e. as an advance of the security measures that I think it is important to stress. In fact, I think that safety measures should be less chatty and much more compositely carried out. I hear a lot of screaming: it's better that we talk little about safety and it gets a lot worse. That is my personal opinion, and I believe that these measures go in this direction. I have not heard - and I attach great importance to that measure - the fund for companies that have defaulted due to the lack of other people's payments. It is a phenomenon that, at the hardest moment of the crisis, has occurred; there has been an apology that certainly is not what we aspire to, but in the meantime it is a significant point also in temporal terms, because 10 million euros have been placed for three years, thus placing at this bottom the significant premises for a serious and effective implementation. Of course, I hope that this measure will not be lost in the implementing decrees. In fact, in television chatter I always hear of the need to speed up the legislative process, but obviously those who participate in it do not read and do not study much, because the problem is much more in the enforcement of the laws that, as is well known, does not belong to Parliament. It would be right for us to exercise ourselves particularly quickly and effectively on this front. Of course, Mr President, in this context it is good to do so, because, as you know, there is a liquidity situation that the European Central Bank is still providing to the overall financial market, which - as I will say in a moment - we must make the most of. How? There is no doubt that I take seriously the assurances that the Government has given that the measures for investment in the South will be taken in the further course of the law in the Chamber of Deputies. I take them seriously, I hope that they will be implemented and I believe them to be particularly important, partly because they reflect the need for Europe to give concrete shape to our investment policy. You know that I consider not only public investment to be particularly effective, but also the stimulus to private investment. The measures for the South, in particular the tax credit, have this effectiveness because they are located locally in the South. There is, in fact, an extreme need to try to reduce the gap between northern development and the southern part of the country, but the measure refers to investments in machinery and equipment that are also produced in the North of the country and therefore give a balance to that measure that in my opinion is effective and particularly in line with the demand of Europe to deserve the investment clause. In the same way, Mr President, I take very seriously the implementation of the resources for law enforcement, and I am sure that this will continue. However, we still have two problems and this bill of stability will have to hold two more principles firm. In Italy the productivity of the system is not yet sufficient, so the productivity measures must still have a huge lighthouse on. I quote an important measure in this regard: negotiations with Europe must soon produce positive results on the so-called bad bank, i.e. on non-performing loans, which are one of the junctions preventing that liquidity which I mentioned before reaching small and medium-sized enterprises and those which generally use bank credit. That stunt should be avoided as soon as possible because it is necessary. Finally, precisely because we are betting on growth, I remain convinced that a public budget must not forget the aspects of reducing unproductive expenditure, of rationalizing a number of expenditures that are not yet fully monitored (I think, for example, those of all participating companies). We must not lose attention to these problems, because growth will be more efficient if inefficient expenditure is seriously reduced and I think that in this way we can create a framework that will see us vote firmly in favour [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u75	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Mr President, before I give an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group, I would like to express my thanks for the fact that the Commissioners, Deputy Minister Morando, President Tonini and the rapporteurs have given me the opportunity to be replaced, given my status, and I would like to thank you for that. I would start from the reply made by Deputy Minister Morando to the general discussion and agree with him on the part where he said that in fact for 2016 those safeguard clauses were defused with relative drag effect that, instead, I have seen contest by some colleagues. However, since there has not been that famous targeted spending review, as should have been done, it is good to remember that those safeguard clauses have been defused because unfortunately there will be fierce cuts to the Regions: I refer to those 5.5 billion regime that will come as a wild scalpel directly on the people's skin, increasing tickets and decreasing health benefits. 12:39 a.m. (Following Lezzi). It is precisely this way of acting that we contest. It is true that they have been postponed and there are no VAT in 2016; it is also true that under current legislation in 2018 we will have VAT at 25%, from the present 22%, and that of 10% will rise to 13%. We were spared this year, but unfortunately tears and blood are still there. I am surprised that Senator Azzollini does not stress this point, because I really wonder how it can be done after the World Bank has told us that for Italy the total tax rate, i.e. the total weight of the State (tax) on the profits of companies, is 64.8%, compared to just over 40% of the rest of Europe. I wonder, then, how can we fail to say that those safeguard clauses have also been blocked because there is a decontribution operation. The decontribution goes from a structural rule, in force since 1990, to a commercial rule, transitional, last year, valid only for those hired in 2015, which grants as relief of charges up to 24,000 euros in three years. Now we move on to another transitional rule for the only ones hired in 2016, which will lead to a lightening in the next two years for only 6,500 euros. If we therefore consider that this total tax rate, this 64.8%, 40% is determined by the contributory, insurance and social security charges, then where is the MEF's response in the face of such a clear distortion? We talk about the competitiveness of companies, but we do not go to solve the real vices of this state, of this country that unfortunately cannot breathe and that once again, with this law of stability does not have, new air. During the visit to the Commission, something was promised, even for the South issue. Let us remember that the decontribution was 100% in the structural norm for the countries of the South, the disadvantaged ones, and to move to a broader standard, EUR 3.5 billion has also been removed from the Cohesion and Development Fund, which 80% is always for the regions of the South. Then, at Parliament's insistence, it has been said that the House will be faced with the problem of the South. But in view of the fact that from a structural norm we will still arrive at a commercial norm (which is a small tax credit, which is an extra year of decontribution), in any case we cannot but talk about robbery first of all to the detriment of the South, but also to the damage of the North. In fact, the rule contained in Law 407 of 1990 was structural, for artisan enterprises it was valid for all the national territory, and for 50% it provided for this relief always. Therefore, this certainly does not solve the problem. Did I take a look at today's articles in the papers and what is it? The fact that there will certainly be a reduced VAT system for agricultural enterprises. No, it was already there, and it was you who wanted to remove it: it was you who tried to remove it from last year. On the occasion of the debate on the DEF I have already denounced it, when I said that you wanted to remove to recover 18 million euros from the tax regime for the very small producers. Since then, I have been talking about the agricultural IMU. When Renzi went to the Expo with the flags of Coldiretti, he did not say that the agricultural IMU would be removed only by direct farmers or professional farmers. All the rest of the citizens who own a piece of land must pay the agricultural IMU, and you must say that, because perhaps many people do not know and will also incur fines. Agricultural IMU has not been abolished: it has only been abolished in certain sectors. Then there is a lot of talk about the minimum regime. Such a regime was already there, it was a structural rule and provided for 5 percent of taxes to be paid on profits: profits that are determined by revenues less costs. Now, instead (I told you again during the examination in the Commission), there will be no more revenue system less costs, but there will be productivity coefficients that you have set and that unfortunately in many cases do not respond to reality: they are too high, they are profits that do not exist. Moreover, we are not looking at the fact that many who will join the minimum regime are fifty years old who have lost their jobs and who must be helped not only for a three-year period, but in a structural and just way, adherent to reality, otherwise we do not succeed. Moreover, when it comes to fiscal weight, it is enough to reckon and say that, between 2005 and 2015, GDP grew by 144 billion and tax revenues by 145 billion: the state has taken more than what has been produced in this country. And even now, we have tried to fix what is the first rule of the Renzi Government: the one for which Tari will now predict that those who pay must pay for those who do not pay. And those flexibility coefficients that had been granted for two years this year expire. Therefore, that 50% flexibility granted to the municipalities from this year will be no longer there and, unfortunately, Tari will increase. When the MEF says that it is actually trying to ease the tax burden and that it does not say that, in reality, this pressure has always been (and continues to be) transferred to local authorities. Finally, I would like to refer to the reply by Mr Morando, who spoke about the European Commission, chaired by Mr Juncker, which is finally more political and less technical. It is true and we also believe that it is sacrosanct to grant flexibility for the costs of immigration: sacrosanct and civil, because it is civil to help first of all those fleeing the war. How civil it is to have a name, a surname and to know who enters our country: not after two years, but after two weeks, we must know if our country is safe. Just as it is right to grant flexibility on security costs. Now we need to secure our citizens and our law enforcement forces must be trained and equipped to deal with an emergency. If, however, Juncker is now a political committee, you cannot help but consider that 10 million poor people, including one and a half million children, are an emergency to be addressed, as you yourself acknowledged, Mr Vice-Minister. And let's not let Boeri know that we want to give Berlusconi citizenship income. We are referring to a poverty line determined by Istat. Citizenship income is a matter of reasonableness and civilization. Just as that total tax rate threshold, which sees 20 points of difference with the rest of Europe, is consistent with what I have been asking for for two years: a lowering of the tax burden of 8-10 points on small and medium-sized enterprises. This does not necessarily lead to more revenue. I am convinced, on the other hand, that reasonable taxation can also bring more revenue and give the possibility of new investment, including public investment, as well as private investment. In fact, before throwing numbers as it has been done in the last two years, during which we passed from a spending review of 32 billion to money allocated for school construction and the hydrogeological failure that then there have not been, let's not say we have 11 billion to make investments, of which 7 destined to the South, when these are only announcements. We do not send out any news that, in fact, cannot be found in the coffers. This should lead to Europe: a serious project, however, accompanied, at the same time, by an equally serious spending review. Because the Renzi Government with this bill of stability is using to its liking the perfect bicameralism, which at this point suits it, to make some marches with the senator parliamentarians and even with the parliamentarians in the Chamber: the latter certainly could not remain with their mouths dry. Otherwise, we would have continued to talk about the South, about poverty, about small businesses, and then to get to the House! No, you don't! We gave the satisfaction of Monza and the transport companies of Sardinia. How can Europe believe that? How can we really bet our feet if we still cannot stop the practice of commodity? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u78	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the 2016 stability bill, with a total value of EUR 26.5 billion, is a maneuver launched in deficit for at least 14.6 billion, resulting in an increase in public debt now permanently placed close to 2,200 billion. As conceived, this law shows that it has a very short time horizon, all aimed at seeking electoral consensus at least until next year. In the autumn of 2016, in fact, the government will have to face the confirmation referendum, asking the citizens to approve the constitutional reform for the overcoming of the bicameralism paritarian, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the containment of the costs of operation of the institutions, the abolition of the CNEL and the revision of the Title V of the Constitution. The search for electoral consensus is the thread that guided the general approach of the law that accompanies the state budget. It is clear that if the government loses the referendum it is politically over. The referendum, in fact, is the crucial event, even more important than the spring local elections in large cities. But let's move on to the analysis of this law of stability. There is, as I said at the beginning, a resounding increase in public debt. There is a limited elimination to the year 2016 of the safeguard clause, which in 2017, given the approach of this stability law, we will find at least doubled due to the summations of those postponed to 2017 and those that are expected to be active both in 2017 and 2018. Incidentally, already in spring, in the event that the voluntary return of capital does not arrive at the anticipated revenue, we will have, as is expected, the immediate triggering of the first clause. There is a partial IMU-TASI reduction for the first home and the increase of the cash ceiling to 3,000 euros. I must stress that these two last issues are taken up by the political programme of Forza Italia and introduced into this law of stability, albeit to a lesser extent than is foreseen in our electoral programme. These are the great issues that face the law of stability, which then fragments into a myriad of parceled interventions that in fact do not help the recovery of the country. Let's see now what is missing: the spending review. The real priority of the country was, in fact, to put hand to the pachydermic spending of the State. This priority is addressed with spending cuts and savings of around 4 billion (a pale 0.5 percent of the total public expenditure), a figure very far from the 33.9 billion spending review planned for 2016 by former Commissioner Cottarelli. In fact, the former Commissioner, but also those who succeeded him, provided for a path of efficiency of public spending and a cut in waste that is lacking in this law of stability. To the pale savings of expenditure provided for by this law are added the usual linear cuts to the Regions and health care for another 3,5 billion. If we add to this picture that GDP growth this year is 0.8%, a lower level than that on which the government based its estimates, the resulting picture makes it easy to predict that the deficit and debt return targets will be lacking. The themes on which Forza Italia had thought of its alternative stability maneuver are missing. The first is security. We would have liked to have adjusted the salaries of the Forces of Order, the increase of organic endowments, the modernization of the means and instruments. We asked for this right away, before the Paris bombings. That is why we can now stress this, not to demagogy, but to bring attention to a topic of great importance for the country. There are no pensioners, because we had thought of an adjustment of minimum pensions to EUR 800, which is now untenable. The exodus are missing, which unfortunately still suffer from the harmful consequences of the Fornero law. The Mezzogiorno is missing: we absolutely must understand that if we do not manage to restart the South we will not really be able to take this economic recovery by the tail due to exogenous causes, which we all know and which, therefore, I am not here to remember. We are faced with a maneuver that wastes resources to assist, in a very minimal way, a cyclical growth of the economy. It is a maneuver that engages important resources, equal to 1.6% of GDP, but that will give a boost to the growth of gross domestic product of only 0.3%. It is a maneuver that even where, always in debt, it introduces benefits for the enterprises, it does so photographing a Country statically linked to the only small manufacturing production, a Country that does not innovate its own product but only, with some measures, the means to produce it, affecting very little on the real problem of the Italian enterprise. Here I hear that this maneuver also forgets the North. On the contrary, courageous investments were needed in product innovation and in research and development, creating that virtuous circle between companies and universities and research centres that is taking off the most advanced countries in the world. They needed investments that had a higher and braver public equity multiplier. The real problem of the country is not dealt with in any of the articles of the bill when we examine it: I am referring to low productivity, which brings with it a very low level of growth and particularly affects the public sector, even if the private sector is not exempt from it. It lacks a path of efficiency of public administration spending and of cutting waste, which should have been the guiding principle of the bill of stability; failing in the law that details the public accounts, we really doubt it can be present in the delegated decrees of the Law Madia. Another issue I would like to address is the relationship with the European Union. It is a recent warning to Italy by the European Union that, following an assessment of the stability bill, it has found that it significantly deviates from the path of fiscal consolidation and that, by Commissioner Dombrovskis' voice, it asks the Government to take the necessary measures to return to a virtuous path. Commissioner Dombrovskis basically says that taxes are not cut in deficit and, therefore, to be clear, he announces the need for corrective action in mid-2016. The draft law in question makes even unnecessary and unnecessary the accounting law, where it seriously contrasts the forecasts contained in the Economic and Finance Document with those of the Stability Act, which should be direct consequence, with values doubled for deficit expenditure and halved for the revision of expenditure between April and October. This is the sign of an economic policy that calls schizophrenic is even a gentle euphemism. In short, the maneuver we are considering is damaging to the future of our children by adding more debt and, therefore, other charges to the approximately €75 billion a year already necessary to pay interest on debt, at a historic moment that sees the absence of inflationary pressures and that therefore increases our difficulties. The increase in debt is the real enemy of growth and structural investment in the public sector. To remind us of mortgages are the safeguard clauses for over 54 billion euros between 2017 and 2019, necessary for the large distribution of loaves and fish that this pre-election bill provides. In conclusion, it is clear that the bill of stability leaves us unsatisfied, but - even more so - very concerned. The maneuver under consideration highlights the absolute absence of a long-term perspective view of the government's work, which shifts to tomorrow what it does not know, does not want or cannot face today. For this reason, the Forza Italia Group will not vote for this Government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u81	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I see a great deal of interest in the changes that Italy is introducing in its institutional architecture, economy and society. The law of stability is a significant part of the path and the road to bring Italy out of the economic crisis and make it reborn. Unlike the old financial law, the law of stability has a three-year scope that we often forget: it indicates the net balance for each of the years of the three-year period and links national public finance with European objectives. The need to hold together balances, three years, national and European objectives, constraints and procedures reduces their emendability (important but very little observed), resulting in parliamentary complications. That is a point, Mr President, on which I should like to be explicit. To protect the integrity of the maneuver it would be useful to foresee serious limits to the emendability of the bill of stability, as happens in those democracies where it is possible for the Assembly to approve it in the text presented by the Government or reject it in full. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The work of the Budget Commission has never been simple, but this time, in the last few days, precisely during the examination of the draft Stability Act, the shock of the Paris massacre broke into the Commission. In the face of such an immense tragedy, our first duty is to reaffirm with parliamentary work the principles of democracy, its institutions and its freedoms. Governor Visco and the European Central Bank have reminded us that the violence of international terrorism will also have an impact on confidence, increasing uncertainty and threatening economic recovery. The stability of our economy is also defended and strengthened by the quality of the maneuver, with courageous and consistent choices. Our Committee on Budgets, the majority and the opposition, the two rapporteurs, President Tonini, Deputy Minister Morando and Undersecretary Baretta have worked in this spirit and I thank them very much for that. As is natural, very complex legislation always contains rules that cause discussion, but there is a broad positive assessment of the installation and setting up of this stability law. For the first time since the beginning of the crisis, a very important European country such as Italy has given itself the difficult objective of fully respecting the Maastricht parameters and of using, at the same time and equally fully, the margins of flexibility offered by the Union's rules. In summary, Italy has decided to connect the rigour of the public accounts to a decidedly expansive approach of the maneuver. It is a fundamental change, already initiated by the Government in 2015, but in this maneuver it assumes a much more marked character, which collects and relaunches the first results of GDP, production and, finally, also of employment. Moving from total rigour to development is a change of strategy, which requires attention and competence, but which was absolutely necessary to overcome the excesses of restrictive policies, which for too many years have had a negative impact on our economy, so much so as to be considered a significant cause of the failure to emerge from the crisis. I went to look at the parliamentary debate on last year's stability law, Mr President, and I reread many public statements and the most important editorials. Already then, from right and left, there was a very strong demand for measures for the development and refusal of a reading of the parameters exclusively formal. It is above all for these basic reasons that the PD senators will vote on the law of stability. The Italian government is ageing the country and is doing so since the first months of its constitution, with a policy of reforms, on which the House and the Senate have been committed - I must say with success - for a year and a half. This process of change confirms that politics cannot ignore the economy, but also that the economy cannot ignore politics. In the choices of the government there is a prevalence of politics and national interest, as politics is the will of this Parliament. The maneuver has a value of EUR 27 billion and must be judged not only for its effects on our economy, but also in a European way, as the markets and investors demand. The first dowry is consistency with the parameters of the Stability and Growth Pact. Public debt has been declining for the first time since 2007, and the deficit has stopped at 2.2%, well below the 3% threshold, which important European partners continue to exceed. It is in this context of great attention to European constraints that the terrorist emergency must also be framed. Many factors change when you are forced to fight an enemy who wants your death. I am thinking of the Paris massacre, but I am also thinking of the tragedy currently taking place in Mali, where a raid is trying to free 140 hostages, including many European citizens. As Presidents Hollande, Renzi and Junker point out, the lives of innocent people and the ancient values of freedom, equality and brotherhood of our civilization are at stake. Financing the fight against international terrorism will therefore require more flexibility on the parameters of stability. The fight against terrorism requires a lot of prudence, balance and continuity in foreign policy decisions and strong cohesion primarily between the nations of Europe. But we also know that, internally, we need good police forces. The quality of the Italian Police Forces is out of the question, as are their coordination and relationship with the Services. We look forward with confidence and with Parliament's full solidarity to the measures that the Government will present to the House for a further increase in resources and allocations. We must support, ladies and gentlemen, with appropriate measures, the essential democratic mission of our security systems. The second dowry of the maneuver is a significant decrease in the tax pressure that will give breath to many Italians, stimulate the demand and raise the confidence indices. The furniture wealth of Italian families - it must always be remembered - has reached the record figure of almost 4,000 billion, with an increment of 400 billion only from 2011 to today. There is a strong private capital in our country, which is not put into the real economy circuit, but is set aside or given in management even for very long periods. Tax weight reduction is a strong factor of confidence; it can help to overcome fears and push all savers to invest in the country's growth. The third commitment is the fight against poverty and the protection of the weakest sections of the population. There is provision for appropriations which, for the sake of clarity of objectives - I remind Senator Uras, who spoke about this earlier - and which consist of resources, I do not recall ever having seen in my thirteen years of parliamentary experience. They are certainly not measures capable of resolving all the serious inequalities in the distribution of wealth in our country, but they are certainly a substantial indicator of our willingness to go in the direction of a fairer and fairer society. The fourth commitment is the continuation of the difficult and very delicate operation of reducing public expenditure. It is a point on which there is a lot of attention. In two years our current expenditure is falling by 20 billion, of which you are in the stability we are about to approve. These are important figures and it is a shame to see them underestimated. Other significant savings will be made in 2017 and 2018. Yesterday I was surprised to hear Senator Gaetano Quagliariello - whom I do not see in the Chamber now - use expressions that I considered to be liquidators on our public car. If we are against waste and linear cuts, we must know that a real spending review can only be the result of a profound and not easy reform of the state. By next August the decrees delegated on public administration will be issued. Only measures of this nature will improve the functioning of the State and a qualified reduction in public expenditure. This is the real spending review. Attention to shortcuts, Senator Quagliariello, because there is a risk that costs, instead of decreasing, will increase. The fifth commitment is the revival of the economy. The maneuver reduces tax revenues by 1.1 percent of GDP (this is an important move in this direction). The most important benefits go to the medium-large productive realities, which are candidates to drive the economic and industrial recovery of the country. Manufacturing is a strength of our economic system, a great opportunity to increase jobs. We must help her to defend herself in the difficult context of globalisation, giving us realistic and immediate goals. We must stop the decline, fight against all forms of deindustrialisation, stimulate growth and business networks. Finally, I should like to say a few words about the Mezzogiorno, Mr President. It is intolerable for a great city like Messina to remain so long without water. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The water emergency in Messina does not depend on the lack of attention of the State towards the Mezzogiorno, nor on the responsibility of the mayor, given that the water comes from levies outside the city, nor does it result from the lack of financial resources, because since 1994 the structural funds have been available several billions for the collection, the supply and the distribution of water. In Messina there was no lack of money; the ability to carry out the works and to operate the services was lacking. The Italian Mezzogiorno certainly needs resources, but we must tell ourselves that often the necessary premise is missing to use them well: an efficient and effective spending capacity. Investing resources when institutions and the organizational system are dilapidated just means throwing public money away. I'll say it in a nutshell. In the Mezzogiorno we need more state, more legality and more responsibility. Of course, infrastructure is needed, but the physical and material nature of infrastructure is of little use if cultural, social and institutional infrastructure is lacking. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u83	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u84	DAVICO (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and representatives of the Government, I am speaking on behalf of the moderate member of the LAG Group who, as has already been pointed out, will not have a unanimous vote. While it is true that the law of stability regulates the country's economic policy and gives the measure of the direction that the country takes for the immediate future, it must be recognized to the Government the merit of having drawn a courageous maneuver that has particular regard for the relief of taxation, a theme that affects citizens all, families and businesses, craftsmen and professionals. The lowering of IRAP and IRES, the introduction of new reductions to IMU and TASI for those who grant their rental property with the agreed rent, the abolition of IMU on agricultural land and IRAP for farmers, the progressive expansion of decontribution, are measures expected and urged by the economic fabric of the country that will certainly result in benefits for innovation, employment and wages. We cannot fail to appreciate the government's acceptance of requests that we moderated with specific amendments: for example the cancellation of the IMU on bolted vehicles, machinery firmly anchored to the ground and of such large size that they are assimilated to a property; the abolition of the IMU for the second house when it is granted free use to children, parents or separate spouse, a battle won in favor of our fellow citizens and good news for the country that has often its own virtuous wealth in the house. Another particularly appreciated choice is that, at last, after years of debate and scarce resources available, in spite of a strong opposition of some, to allocate substantial funds to security and cybersecurity: there are those who do not understand, in these days more than before, that this approach goes in the direction of a need to combat terrorism through prevention and new types of investigation. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, remembering that this is certainly not, economically speaking, among the best possible: while the approach is acceptable, the result is certainly perfect and that is what we will have to do in the coming months with the legislative instrument at our disposal. The ISTAT data and the forecasts of the International Monetary Fund on the growth of the GDP of Italy are a lukewarm but still good viatico to give, as we will do once again today on this measure, our confidence to the Government, at a time when the effort to go in the direction of a more stable economic future for a country that has suffered an unprecedented crisis and wants to head high towards recovery. "Confidence," I stress, quoting the words of a great economist, "is the invisible institution that governs economic development."
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u87	Mr Quegliariello (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, first of all, I will use the first twenty seconds of this statement to reassure Senator Zanda that I was in the Chamber and listened to his words. I should like to thank him for his consideration of yesterday's speech in the general debate, and I must say that if this consideration had been demonstrated by the Government and the majority also for the amendments that we tabled with our fellow MEPs, Mr Augello, Mr Compagna and Mr Giovanardi, probably this dissenting statement would not have been there. In fact, we have linked our vote to one method: we have indicated in eight possible amendments cuts from spending review that would strengthen the covers, all taken from the report Cottarelli and in accordance with the philosophy of Raffaele Cantone, that for which to fight corruption it is necessary first of all to remove the water of culture of the statism. Those amendments have not been answered, they have not even been considered, and that is why our vote, in dissent from the Group, will be a vote that will not give confidence to this Government. Our vote will be an abstention, which is also an opening of credit in the hope and opportunity that the Government will change its attitude in the Chamber of Deputies. It is also, of course, a method which we intend to launch now and which we will follow in the future. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u88	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,9000 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing all articles of bill No 2111 on whose approval the Government has put the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I would remind you that every senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Puglia is drawn by lot.) They asked to vote first, and I granted it, the Senators Turano and Russo, who have improbable needs to leave abroad. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Puglia. PEGORER, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Amati, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre, Azzolini Battista, Berger, Bertuzzi, White, Bianconi, Bonaiuti, Bondi, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Casini, Cassano, Casson, Cattaneo, Chiavaroli, Chiti, Cirinna, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Conte, Corsini, Cucca, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, Davico, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Filippino, Di Giorgi, Dirindi, D'Onghia Esposito Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Favero, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippio, Filippino, Filippino, Fin, Finchian, Fin, Fin, Findi, Findi, Findi The senators: Airola, Alicata, Amoruso, Archeri, Arrigoni, Augello, Auricchio Barani, Bellot, Bernini, Bertacco, Bertorotta, Bignami, Bisinella, Bocca, Boccardi, Bocchino, Bonfrisco, Bottici, Bruni, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caliendo, Campanella, Candiani, Cappelletti, Cardiello, Caridi, Carraro, Casaletto, Castaldi, Catalfo, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolillo, Cioffi, Consiglio, Conti, Crimi, Crosio D'Alì, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, D'Anna, De CristoFaro, De Petris, Giarusso, De Siano, Divina, Donno Falanga, Fasano, Fattori, Floris, Fucksia Gaetti, Galimberti, Gasparri The senators are abstaining: Giovanardi Quagliariello. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We note that Senator Scilipoti Isgrò, although he is present in the Chamber, does not take part in the vote. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote with the appeal of amendment 1,9000 (correct text), entirely replacing the bill No 2111 on whose approval the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 284 Senators voting 282 Majority 142 Favorable 164 Contrari 116 Absent 2]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the PD Group]] All amendments and agendas relating to the articles of the draft law are therefore not included. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the adoption of the stability bill, the Government will now have to draw up the corresponding Note of Variations. The 5th Permanent Commission is now authorized to convene for the examination of this document and then to report to the Assembly on the resumption of the debate on the budget. Pending the presentation by the Government of the Note of changes in the budget, I suspend the session for thirty minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 2.02 p.m. and resumed at 2.32 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u89	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2112. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has presented the Note of variations to the budget forecast of the State for the financial year 2016 and the multi-annual budget for the three-year period 2016-2018. This note was referred to the 5th Permanent Commission. Before proceeding to the final vote of the budget estimate of the State it is necessary to pass, in accordance with Article 129, paragraph 2 of the Regulation, to the examination and the deliberation on the Note of Variations, with which the Government has introduced in the text of the bill of budget and in the annexed tables modifications consequent to the determinations adopted by the Senate in the examination of the law of stability. I call the rapporteurs to report on the conclusions adopted by the 5th Permanent Commission on the Note of Variations.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u90	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this Note of changes to the State's budget for the financial year 2016 and for the three-year period 2016-2018 has been prepared to transpose the effects of the 2016 Draft Stability Act approved by the Senate of the Republic. In relation to the above, this Note includes amendments: to the general summary frameworks for the three-year period 2016-2018 in terms of competence and cash; to some articles of the bill of the three-year budget; to the estimates of revenue (Table 1) and to all estimates of the expenditure of the Ministries (Tables 2 to 14). As a result, amendments are also made to the relevant technical annexes by chapters.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u91	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Note of Variations. With the approval of the Note of Variations, the text on which the Senate has pronounced itself in the previous stages of the procedure, with reference both to the articles of the draft budget law and to the annexed tables, will be modified accordingly. The final vote on draft law No 2112 will then be taken by electronic means. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Note of variations. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft budget law. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 2112. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u94	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, very often we hear politicians talking both on television and in Parliament's classrooms; everyone, perhaps to make a good impression, says that the trials are slow. I then want to put to the attention of each one of us a message that they sent me, according to which a judge of the court of Rome, Section XII (I do not quote the name for respect), dissolving the reservation assumed at the hearing of 12 November 2015, examined the lawsuits and documents, considered the case mature for the decision - ah, finally, mature for the decision! - set out the conclusions, the hearing for 13 December 2017. Did I get that right? Considered the case for the decision... president. He's got it right. It's not an isolated case. PUGLIA (M5S). I would like to make a request, in particular, to those Members who are in the Committee on Justice. I can, of course, make a contribution to your Commission, although I am a member of the Commission, but I am convinced of the good work of the Commissioners of the Commission, and therefore there is no need to make any further contributions. Well, I ask them to solve these situations. It is not possible that the decision is mature and that, however, we must wait another two years. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It is not an easy problem to solve; however, we put it to the attention of those who listen to us.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u95	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-540.ana.u96	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 24 November, at 5 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 14.41 a.m.
