ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u3	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time) under Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure on measures to protect the dairy supply chain and agricultural initiatives for Expo 2015, to which the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Martina, will respond. I inform the Assembly that RAI's live television is underway. Let us turn to the questions on measures to protect the dairy sector. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u6	PIGNEDOLI (PD). Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you the following question from an area, Emilia, which in the dairy sector and in the Parmigiano Reggiano sector has one of the most valuable and important production sectors which has seen prices below production costs in recent months. I do this on the days when yet another climatic emergency with exceptional snowy events has put to the test the will and tenacity of the farms of my territory. The crisis situation in the sector and the high level of uncertainty that is expected in the face of the end of milk quotas is such that I do not ask you what individual measures but what strategy you have in mind to propose the Ministry of Agricultural Policies on this sector. I would ask you, on the one hand, what the strategy in emergency will be, in relation to a price of milk that does not cover production costs and is seriously endangering the holding of the producers, and, on the other hand, in the medium term, the plan of strong conversion of the production system of milk and the processing sector, such as Parmigiano Reggiano, as well as in difficulty. A plan that sees the strengthening of producers, that is a new role of producers who from sellers of raw materials only pass to be sellers of a finished product, that is a role in which they can be protagonists where the real margins of income lie. A system that leads those who work to the real production of the product to share the profits in the phases that record the increase of the greater value of the product itself. A plan that enhances and rewards products characterized by a high level of quality and, perhaps, also that updates the classic parameters of quality measurement (fat, protein, bacterial charge, somatic cells), contemplating the measurement and improvement of the aromatic and nutritional complexity of milk. On the distinctiveness and nutritional aspects I believe that the new frontiers of the competitiveness of Italian milk, less and less commodity, more and more distinctive product, less and less milk, and more and more the types of milk, more and more coming from the product, and more composed of the product. Related to this logic of distinctiveness, I would like to know what the strategies are with regard to the mountain dairy sector and for food education, especially from the point of view of initiatives within schools.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u9	SCOMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, 1 April 2015 marks a new dramatic stage for the dairy sector. The milk quota system has its own end, after having for thirty years strongly conditioned, for good and bad, the sector. The price of milk touches the 37 cents of euro per litre in December 2014, reaching the minimums from June 2012, after it had risen to 43 cents. We are talking about figures that are still laughable, if we consider that the cost of production has an average of 40 cents. The so-called Milk Package, adopted in 2012, leads to a situation of transition to the market, where farmers, through their organizations, will have to negotiate with the processing industries the price of milk. The supply chain numbers are important: more than 35,000 farms, more than 1.8 million dairy cows, 10.5 million tons of cow's milk. We are faced with a sector that accounts for about 9% of the agricultural sector and about 11% of the food processing industry sector. Household spending in the enlarged sector is around 19 billion per annum. We ask Minister Martina if Italy does not believe that it should accompany this transition with tax advantages, in the face of documented interventions of corporate restructuring, both in the production sector and in the processing sector, using, where possible, European funds. We also ask to know if we do not want to promote a food education campaign that highlights the higher quality of the Italian product compared to similar foreign products, an Italian product that needs support (including tax) to the supply chain in order to be able to re-align the higher price.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u12	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, Minister, the judgment of the Court of Justice of 2 December 2014 in paragraphs 81, 131 and 135 shows that Italy has not carried out checks and it is not possible to know how much milk was produced because of the inability of AGEA, Agecontrol and SIN managers. Europe believes that the data provided are not real. Basically, it is claimed that you have tried to conceal a superproduction. In fact, the lieutenant colonel of the Mantile Carabinieri, in his report, shows the opposite, namely that Italy has never exploded the European quotas and even the interception with Ambrosio confirms the relationship of Mantile. We were fined EUR 70 million: who pays them? I hope it makes them pay to the incompetent, or has Italy appealed to the European Court of Justice? Those who have managed these agencies today are in a political career or still manage them, at most they have changed offices. The management of milk quotas has been bankrupt: few have profited on the shoulders of many. That this regime ended in March of this year was known for a long time, however, we arrive unprepared for the passage, with a section on the edge of the ravine. I do not ask you how you will manage the transaction, nor of the milk plan already under discussion at the Ministry of Food and Forestry Agricultural Policies, known and widely discussed and advertised. I ask you what you intend to do to redefine, or rather to close with the past in the light of the findings, which should distort the decisions taken (also because the Court of Auditors has shown that 50% of the amount of fines is inexplicable) and how you intend to reform the audited bodies, given the deadline for 2016, in order to avoid the mistakes of the past.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u15	Formigoni (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, Minister, the dairy crisis is ahead of us all. We all have known her very well for a long time. There are many reasons for this crisis, and I shall mention at least three. One reason concerns the European plan: our farmers are very concerned that the European Union, in the face of the forthcoming conclusion of the milk quota system - which, indeed, has not brought much luck to our country - has not yet defined a new regime. This is a reason for uncertainty, which goes hand in hand with and adds to other profound reasons for this crisis. In recent months, the Russian embargo, which has affected imports from the European Union, especially and very much from Italy, in the fruit and vegetables, milk and milk products sectors, has been added. Finally, due to the economic crisis that has deeply affected our country (not only, but also) there has been a decrease in consumption that has led to further suffering. You know, Minister, that on these issues the Committee on Agriculture, which I have the honour to chair, has held several hearings, including with regard to the dairy sector and, in particular, to certain products of excellence. And even in the past we have dealt with the issues of milk quotas and the collection of fines, disputes and infringement procedures against our country. Well, in the face of this picture, I would like to ask you, really concretely and forcefully, what measures you intend to take to protect our dairy sector, both in terms of the profitability of farms and very often in terms of the possibility for many farmers to continue their work, because this is in difficulty. I would also like to ask you what initiatives you intend to take with regard to the European Union, so that you realize that this issue concerns so many countries, including certainly our own.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u18	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, Minister, the end of the milk quota regime (which I shall not dwell on because I could refer back to the many questions put in the past legislation) and the uncontrolled imports of fresh and semi-finished products from abroad, as you know, are leading to a serious cyclical crisis in the milk market, with the price at the barn, for farmers, reduced in a few months by 20%. In Italy, among other things, the little more than 36,000 stables that survived produced, in 2014, about 110 million quintals of milk, while about 86 million quintals of equivalent milk imports. For every million quintals of imported milk, 17,000 cows and 1,200 employed in agriculture disappear, with a very negative impact also on food safety, just think that, in the last year, we have imported the so-called curds, which have exceeded the million quintals. I would like to know from you what urgent steps you intend to take to prevent the fall in the price of milk at origin from leading to the closure of thousands of farms in the near future. It asks, in particular, whether the Minister does not intend to assess urgently the establishment of a national distinctive mark for Italian milk and derived products, on the trace of what the French Government has ordered in recent days: an initiative capable of enhancing domestic production and returning to farmers part of the added value that is now being taken away from the processing industry of large-scale distribution. The Minister is also asked what extraordinary controls he intends to carry out on the import of milk and semi-derived products from abroad, greatly increased in recent months on the basis of the data already available, with the consequent risks to consumers.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u21	ZIN (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Minister, on behalf of myself and Senator Franco Panizza, I ask the following question about whey powder. In addition to its main purpose of use, whey powder has now taken over its reconstitutive value for fruit plants, enhancing their natural defenses against pathogens of all kinds. Currently, in Italy this use is not formally authorised, while in Europe and in particular in Switzerland, Austria and Germany there are farms, increasingly organic, which use whey powder, commonly defined as aid product for plants to be used together with the pesticide mixture. It is therefore requested that whey powder be included in the list of products used as supporters, enhancers of the natural defenses of plants, as well as in Annex 1 to Ministerial Decree of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy of 27 November 2009 and in the provisions for the implementation of EEC Regulations 834/2007, 889/2008 and 889/2008 and subsequent amendments concerning organic production and labelling of organic products.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u24	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Minister, the question we are asking you is 360 degrees on the agricultural world, because, when we talk about the dairy sector, we must remember that we are referring to something that for our country represents a fundamental point of penetration of the foreign market in export, and Italy is second only to France. Producing today, in Italy, seems increasingly difficult and, even here, we would like to understand how the Government intends to guarantee and protect our best production, with a system in itself increasingly hostile to those who do agriculture and, in the specific case, breeding. I am talking about the difficulties that exist, starting with the cost of energy, fuels and installations themselves, because we must also remember the taxes that are imposed on our farmers and on production facilities. We would have liked to ask a more extensive question on the subject of the IMU, but we know that this has not been accepted. We must remember that, when it comes to agriculture, we must consider it not only as a beautiful label to be put for a photograph, perhaps within a European assembly, but as something that belongs to us intimately. We insist much on this and say that the government must be much more concrete. All too often in the Commission we have heard you, Minister, or your collaborators, such as the Undersecretary or the Deputy Minister, say that what we proposed was not acceptable, simply because the Ministry of Finance did not authorise expenditure cover. Well, we want to understand whether, in the end, Mr Padoan's accounts count more or what you, Minister, say is your commitment to agriculture. In fact, it seems to us that the Ministry of Agriculture is marginal in relation to the choices of the Government, essentially linked, instead, to economic equilibrium. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Mr Martina, Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u25	Mr President, I would like to thank all the senators who have spoken for the issues that have been raised, which allow me to report on and take into account the activities of these hours, particularly on the dairy side and the crisis, as well as the very delicate passage that the sector is going through, both in Italy and in Europe. In the meantime, I propose a more general idea: the end of the quotas and the opening of a new scenario, from April onwards, are highlighting how fragile the overall structure of the Community's agricultural policy, particularly in relation to these phase steps, is, in my view, still. I am referring in particular to the milk package, to certain measures which should have started and never started, and, more generally, to an overall reading of the phase change that Europe as a whole is going through. I would like to remind you that we are rightly dealing with the Italian issue and the Italian companies, but the fall in prices is widespread. In Italy, in recent months, from January to December 2014, there has been a decline of 10.8%: we have reached 35.9 euros per 100 kilograms; in France, we are basically a similar figure; even more pronounced the decline in Germany, where it has been 17.6 percent. What do I mean by that? The subject is general and, on the one hand, it must certainly be taken on the European side, where we must fight to achieve more robust solutions than we have seen so far. It is precisely in these hours that we have rewritten to Commissioner Hogan, asking him, specifically, to take seriously the possibility of providing for the interest-free payment of any fines for the milk quotas of the last campaign as the first concrete act that accompanies the exit from the old system and allows us to enter into the new mechanism that will follow at the end of the quotas. On this point, let us take up an initiative that we have already set up in the European Presidency, which is strong that there are several other countries with us: I remember Poland for all, but not only Poland. In the last Italian-led Council of the European Union, after our initiative, several countries have joined this proposal. Therefore, today more than yesterday, today that we are not holding the Presidency and therefore we can play a more marked role from the point of view of action towards the European Commission, by making us help from other countries too we are counting on being able to tear some point of concrete newness on this aspect, in the next few days. Just yesterday we brought together the entire supply chain and all the important realities of the dairy sector to the Ministry, to take stock and to understand concretely what to do, with the awareness, recalled by many interrogators, that we have to build actions of a very short period and we have to reason on the evolution of the situation in the medium term. In the short term, I believe that we must turn our first real action - and this is what we are doing - to the full implementation of the provisions of Article 62 of Law No 27 of 2012 never actually used. I am referring to the need for the Ministry to immediately monitor regularly the main classes of agricultural products, the trend in average production costs and the prices of products paid by agricultural producers, also in relation to what is then paid by the consumer and, where there were also - I would say above all, at this time - incorrect and unfair practical milk, we must be prepared to proceed with the appropriate reports to the Competition and Market Authority. The above-mentioned Article 62 defined a field of action that has never been pursued. The first point of fundamental novelty is therefore to pursue these actions, to verify and, if necessary, to ask the Antitrust Authority to intervene. On this front, we are already operational and we are counting, already in the next few days, to advance a work that has never been done. Secondly, we need to look concretely at the milk package and update the old decree of 2012, with a new decree introducing two main innovations: on the one hand, we need to build concretely more contractual guarantees for producers, with the mandatory introduction of warranty clauses in contracts, with particular regard to their duration and respect for the principle of good practice, based on a balanced relationship between price developments and the development of production costs. On this point, if we could quickly innovate with a specific ministerial decree updating the 2012 plant, I must say - even after listening to the representatives of the supply chain, yesterday - that we would introduce an element of strong help, especially with regard to the weak link of the sector, which is obviously that of the producers. The second step that we would like to consider in this ministerial decree, which we hope to issue quickly - in a matter of weeks, in fact - is the establishment of the inter-branch milk committee, along the lines of some models that have already been adopted in Europe: I am referring in particular to the French case. This with the awareness - which I call for everyone, because I think we can all analyse it, as it is - that the first real element of fragility, particularly in the dairy sector, is the organizational theme. The real difference between the Italian experience and that of the other European chains, if you see what is happening and what has happened, is once again in the great organizational theme. Why do other countries have a stable and structured interprofessional, which works, and Italy doesn't? Why, in recent years, has there never been a qualitative leap in the organizational capacity of the supply chain, whose producers and processors - industry and production - are called to a total co-responsibility? Why didn't you do what you did in other countries? The variables have been many, but the unequivocal fact is that, if we want to help the whole Italian dairy experience in making a qualitative leap, that's where we have to affect. The ministerial decree that will innovate the decree of 2012, must be able to look at exactly this problem, and then accompany the sector with some other initiatives. You know that the stability law has set up the Quality Milk Fund; this is a first step, a first experimental point for this year, with a commitment of 100 million over the next two years, of which we are building and writing the implementing decree. We talked about it yesterday at the chain and we are defining with the Regions - we will have to do it in the State-Regions Conference - the implementing decree for this intervention that especially on the side of the reduction of interests and guarantees I believe can be for the individual companies a breath of oxygen. To answer the question of Senator De Petris, we set ourselves the theme of labels and an immediate quality leap on the side of the recognizability of the Italian product (fresh milk, in this case) with an observation here too bitter: if you take any shelf of an Italian supermarket, you will find that the indication "fresh milk" is organized in at least 15 different graphic and distinctive signs. The proposal that we are putting forward is to take a specific initiative on this: the Ministry will make a proposal, to which we will be able to adhere, optionally for the time being, pending that the Commission reports on the mandatory indication of the country of origin of the place of origin for milk (report that we are waiting for and that should arrive shortly). With this mechanism, there is the possibility of making an operation immediately and I also found yesterday that the supply chain seems to be ready to transpose the proposal for communication coordination that we will do on this front. The school milk project is the other point for me qualifying for the 2016 perspective. There is the possibility of helping to reverse the dynamics of consumption, especially national, with a robust intervention on the food education side, starting from schools being able to engage important resources on this front. We would like to build a way of applying the Milk project in schools that is as anchored to the territories as possible. In this regard, we are studying the experiences already gained from other countries and here again I mention France, which introduced an interesting novelty, implementing the operation "milk in schools" working on the short chain (I say this with a passage that can be recognized by everyone). There is the possibility of doing so, we have already started to reason with each other and we are counting, for 2016, to apply this front too. We are working on a special promotion campaign for fresh milk that goes hand in hand with the work on the label that I recalled; we are working on the plan for the promotion of agri-food made in Italy at international level and here the work with our main consortia is fundamental and has already started. As you know, 2015 will be the beginning year, with a particular focus on the United States, for the programs and special activities that the Government intends to implement in that reality, in the face of the assessments and dynamics found and the formidable potential that exists in that sector. Finally, I answer Senator Gaetti's question, saying that the judgment of the Court of Justice of 2 December 2014 concerns a financial correction of the EAGF for EUR 70,912 million. The controls required by the relevant European legislation are entrusted to the Regions, which had to ensure accurate definition and control activities. The firms to be checked are identified by AGEA, which in this case had provided within the time limits to communicate to the Regions the control plans to be carried out. In this regard, I would point out that, pursuant to Article 10, the Government could make a financial contribution to the regions responsible for the financial corrections. I would also point out that the impossibility of establishing the quantity of milk produced, as mentioned in paragraph 81 of the judgment, is due, according to the European Commission, to the delay in checks and is intended to justify the flat-rate correction they have applied. With regard to this issue and, more generally, to the issue of the reorganization of the agencies, I would like to remind you that it is precisely the examination of the Senate's Agriculture Commission - which I thank for the work done so far - of the related draft law on agriculture, which contains the delegation on the reorganization of the supervised bodies and that we have already made some choices. In the law of stability we anticipated a unification between Cra and INEA certainly not simple, but we are leading with great determination. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u28	RUTA (PD). Mr President, I welcome what the Minister said. Two considerations emerge from the articulated response. With regard to the first, it is clear that 9% of the agricultural sector and 11% of the processing sector are suffering from an extraordinary fall in milk prices. We are preparing a profound transformation that will win the Italian system only if we focus on quality and controls - I repeat, controls - that guarantee - those yes - the reliability of the products and their nutritional qualities, of which they boast. With regard to the second consideration, the Minister is - so to speak - on the piece: having undertaken a close confrontation with the operators, producers and representatives of the dairy chain is the right way to overcome the challenge we face, even by preparing extraordinary measures such as the national brand, which we have so far in vain proposed, and accompanying measures for a production that is and remains strategic for our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u31	SCOMA (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, I appreciate your efforts and thank Senator Ruta, colleague of the Committee on Agriculture, for taking note of your communications. However, I believe that the most important problem must be addressed in legislative terms. I hope that, in the shortest possible time, it can be resolved with regulatory measures that concern our producers, which obviously meet the burden of legislative constraints for quality and safety superior to those of competing countries, and therefore impact negatively on the economic and financial management of Italian companies. We believe that Italy should accompany the restructuring process by using tax facilitation tools for producers, including to reduce the fragmentation of the processing system.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u34	GAETTI (M5S). Mr Minister, I am pleased to note - in any case you were aware that the subject will end in March - that a table has been created which is working hard, but I think that it should start working very hard already a few years ago. It is also pleasurable to see how the concept of wrongdoers pays is taking hold, and we will see what results it will produce. Therefore, there is nothing left but to hope that the reorder will go ahead and not only that envisaged: if you do not start from there, you can not start again leaving the skeletons in the closet, as happened in the past.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u37	Formigoni (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, the Minister's analysis seems to me to be complete and correct, and the commitment he also shows on this ground is absolutely up to the challenge. Of course, it remains in me - and I believe in all of us - the strong concern for this sector and the equally clear awareness that the game we have to play in Europe will have to see us really protagonists. I also applaud the establishment of the Inter-branch Committee on Milk, which seems to me to be the key instrument for making all our categories heard and heard in the positive sense of the expression. Through a confrontation with the Ministry and Parliament, they must know that they have someone in us who wants to work with them to solve problems - as we have seen - which are very heavy.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u40	ZIN (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Minister, I would just like to say that I hope to receive your written reply as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u43	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I take note of a number of commitments and also of initiatives that the Minister and the Ministry are carrying out. I would like to insist on two aspects which are extremely important to me. When I refer to French experience, and therefore to the possibility of creating a trade mark, it is clear that it would still be something transitional pending the definition of the possibility of labelling the origin data. However, in addition to the work (which I appreciate) on the fresh milk mark, I would ask the Minister to look more closely at this French experience, which, on the other hand, concerns exactly the national milk mark and its derivatives, which I believe allows us to defend also a great heritage, which is even greater in this field than the French one, and above all would give great help to both consumers and our producers at this difficult time.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u46	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answers which do not satisfy us. Orami in Italy survived only 36,000 stables; last year the Italian milk product was 110 million quintals, the one imported at 86, so it is now almost to reach the draw. For every million milk that disappears from our national production, even 1,200 cows and other workers in the agricultural sector disappear. What you are doing and saying certainly can be a soothing one, but it does not correspond to reality. If we do not reduce the costs that agriculture must bear today in order to remain competitive on the market, our agriculture is bound to be marginal in relation to the international scenario and we do not want that.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u47	Let us now turn to questions about initiatives in the agricultural sector for Expo 2015, which will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy Martina. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u50	Mr Albano (PD). Mr President, Minister, "Feeding the planet, energy for life" is the theme of Expo 2015 and the challenge is to ensure good, healthy, sufficient and sustainable food for all humanity. This means opening a dialogue and cooperation between nations, organizations and companies to arrive at common strategies to improve the quality of life and support the environment. The universal exhibition, dedicated to food safety and quality, is an open window on the world, will give visibility to tradition, creativity and innovation in the food sector; it can therefore represent a flywheel for the economy of our territory and present the best excellences in the Italian food sector. If on the one hand there are still those who suffer from hunger (we are talking about about 870 million people who are undernourished in 2010-2012), on the other hand there are those who die from health disorders linked to an incorrect and excessive nutritional intake (there are about 2.8 million deaths from diseases related to obesity or overweight). Also, every year, about 1.3 billion tons of food are wasted. For this reason, conscious policy choices, sustainable lifestyles are needed and a balance needs to be struck between availability and consumption of resources. All this said, I ask you what are the initiatives put in place to implement the right to adequate food and to ensure that the 20 million visitors we will welcome in the Expo from May can become 20 million ambassadors of the right to food in the world?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u53	SCOMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, we must consider the adoption of the European Parliament resolution of 13 January 2015 on the possibility for Member States to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of GMOs on their territory, and note that the Council of State recently (on 3 February) rejected the appeal of an association of Friulian farmers who wanted to sow genetically modified maize, currently banned by ministerial authorities. In addition, the market rewards, on the contrary, GMO seed: for example, extra EU maize is paid EUR 40 per tonne more than Italian maize and comes from the United States or South America for about 90%. This maize is GMO-free and toxins-free, i.e. considered more suitable for both human and animal nutrition. Italy risks losing both in market competition and in biotechnology research, given that there is no scientific evidence of damage to human or animal health resulting from the use of GMOs. On the contrary, non-GMO seeds require more use of pesticides, which are obviously widely imported from abroad just like seeds. Italy imports about 45% of cereals, oilseeds and protein meal, which are largely GMOs. Italian soya production accounts for just over 10% of consumption and thus imports about 4 million tonnes of GMO soya. We ask Mr Martina whether he does not intend to resume the GMO dossier in his hands, seriously examining it, this time without ideological conditioning, in order to arrive at determinations that do not penalise farmers and even consumers, but neither research and scientific progress.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u56	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, I thank the Minister for his presence. Despite the roboating commercials on the Expo, the latest measures on the last agricultural IMU lead us to the consideration that the structural interventions of this Ministry of Agricultural Policies go in the opposite direction and contrary to a model of virtuous development of our primary sector. Free trade, as Carlo Petrini, founder of Slow Food, also said, leads to the destruction of biodiversity, while the excellence of the Italian product lives on biodiversity and the biological characterization of the typical product, which certainly is not represented by the large multinationals, who are the great partners of the Milanese event, given the impressive presence of large companies and multinational food companies. All this is accompanied by the absence of a development facility in research, the real one, which inevitably leads us to the unbridled use of pesticides and the desire to introduce GMOs, which actually have an effect on biodiversity and human health, if not (and we take note of this) when reports such as those of ISPRA in 2014 arrive. which highlights the very high pollution of the groundwater for pesticides. We want to know from the Minister what initiatives for research in agriculture (and I am talking about a virtuous and non-GMO research) will be carried out within Expo 2015 and on what type of research we intend to focus: a research with the only objective of increasing productivity and profit, or even for the purpose of safeguarding biological, and with it human health and territory. Of course, we wonder if these two and a half billion euros spent on Expo could not have been spent just to relaunch a virtuous research. The last question is to understand what attention will be paid to the enormous and unresolved problem of excess food.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u59	Formigoni (AP (NCD-UDC)). Minister, I would like to ask you about one particular issue, which is one of the most virtuous features of the Expo we want to celebrate. I remember how, already in the years and months immediately following the victory of 2008, the Italian Government, the Lombardy region and the municipality of Milan (that is, the three institutional protagonists of the Expo) agreed a very qualifying choice, which led to differentiate the Italian Expo from all previous editions. These three institutions expressed the strong, strong will to involve all the governments of the participating countries in the elaboration of some thesis that were agreedly recognized and demanding for the future on fundamental issues related to that of food: I am talking about the issues of the fight against hunger and proper food, food security and the fight against food waste. In 2012, the Commissioner-General of the Expo drafted a text, called a strategic document, which was signed by the President of the Council of Ministers, then Professor Mario Monti, of the Secretary-General of the BIE, Vicente Loscertales, and had the most vivid appreciation of the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and also of the President of the European Commission Barroso. The Italian Government sent this strategic document to all the governments of the countries that began to book their pavilions. I think it is important for this work to continue. I therefore ask the Minister to tell us what the answers of the governments have been, how we are urging them and how we are working to draw up in a unified way a document involving the responsibility of all the countries, because then we will have achieved a great result that I believe and hope will remain, beyond the six months of the exhibition, in the history of this topic and in the history of humanity.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u62	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Minister, even at the recent international meeting on the Expo of ideas from several quarters, as you know, observations and criticisms have been made about the role that farmers and fishermen - those who should be protagonists in the food supply chain and tell them about the big issues that they are and should be at the centre of the Expo - will be facing within the Expo in Milan. As you know, the same president of Slow Food, Carlo Petrini, has argued about the role played by some multinational food companies within the event and, therefore, about the lack of visibility that peasants and their organizations are preparing to have within Expo. I would therefore ask you, Minister, whether and in what ways (beyond the large sponsored pavilions) a space has been planned during the six months of the event dedicated to the real confrontation on the issues that concern farmers in the world, freely open to their organizations. I would also ask you to know whether the Government intends to take the opportunity of this international event to send a concrete signal to the agricultural world, which we all have been waiting for a long time, finally bringing to the adoption of the law on soil consumption, which has been lying in our classrooms for too long now.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u65	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, it is clear that the subject of the Expo is of fundamental importance to us, but certainly not only for philosophical aspects related to what should be the consideration of food. In fact, the Government itself admits to considering Expo as an opportunity for the budget and, above all, to engage a recovery that in our country seems, unfortunately, always far away. On this we want to see the government engaged and we want to understand in concrete terms the actions that it is putting in place to defend, for example, Made in Italy because on this issue, after six months of Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, we are still at the top of the agenda. And if Expo will be a nice showcase for everyone to present their own capacities and characteristics in the field of agriculture, dairy production (which we have previously referred to), rather than other important sectors, ours is however also a country of paradoxes, where there are sectors in crisis, whether we talk about fish, agri-food in general or the dairy sector. On this, Minister, one cannot but be concrete. The fine words rather than philosophy do not serve much if, as we said before, the costs of farming are too high. The same products of our agriculture always face difficulties to be exported, if there is no connection with the promotion of the quality of the product. At an economic level, the costs we have to bear - we have already stressed this - lead us to fail to understand how the Government could have proposed an initiative such as the IMU initiative on agricultural land, then rushed and somehow revolted. On the issues I have raised, we would like to understand what the Government's commitment within Expo is, so that it is not just a predicate, but rather concrete works.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u68	COMPAGNONE (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Minister, the Expo should be the showcase of our agriculture and our food, the fruit of our history and of our great history and culture, of the wisdom handed down in the cultivation of the land and in the production of food. I wonder who is that genius who has thought of burdening a further tax, which is called IMU, our agricultural properties, the land, which already today cannot produce sufficient earnings to cover labour costs, taxes and costs. Who had this brilliant idea of destroying what remains of our culture and rural property? For which lobby, for which multinational companies are we doing this dirty work, aimed at forcing landowners to sell to restore the brick and probably return to the Middle Ages? Minister, do you really want to turn a dignified and proud people into a mass of debtors to whom there will be nothing left, when they will not be able to pay taxes, but to be foreclosed? Because this will happen. I therefore ask you, dear Minister, and forgive me for the crudeness: what you intend to do to ensure that all this does not happen, so that this famous Expo, which we pumped with a river of billions of euros, does not end up being the macabre representation of the death of Italian agriculture, suffocated by taxes and leaps of various kinds. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Mr Martina, Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u69	Mr President, thank you for this opportunity that allows us to put some firm points, perhaps useful for everyone, to the work that we are doing to prepare Italy to the best of the time for the great appointment of Expo. In the meantime, I believe that a premise is necessary, even for the last things that have been said. The Italian State commits directly for the Universal Exhibition a figure close to the billion and 200 million euros. I provide two data for greater clarity with respect to the size and economic balance that is being built. We have one billion euros of investments acquired by participating countries and 350 million resources already acquired from private companies. If we compare costs, we can discover that in the economic fundamentals this great appointment is paid and has an ability to attract resources from outside the border, both on the side of the participating countries and on that of the mobilized enterprises, of great interest, unless we judge that these resources have no value. I say this because I think it is right to represent the effort that all the institutions have made over the years, beyond political events, to confirm and consolidate this appointment and use it to the end as one of the levers that Italy can exploit in 2015 to achieve its change of pace. The economic fundamentals are there and make this an unmissable opportunity. I'll give you another figure, just to know what we're talking about. At present, some 5,000 companies have worked for the Universal Exhibition. During the six months of exhibition, some 15,000 people will work on that site. We are talking about a great event, which potentially generates virtuous elements and economic dynamics of great interest. We are rightly wondering about the ability of this country to raise the level of discussion on the major issue. I believe that the work carried out, especially in recent weeks (and it helps me a lot the initiative last Saturday realized with the contribution of everyone in Milan), which will be confirmed in particular in the preparation and presentation of the Milan Charter, will make evident the effort of Italy to stay in the wake of the experiences matured in these years. In this sense, the strategic document referred to by President Formigoni for me is the prerequisite, the inherited work that today, with the Milan Charter, we place in the scenario of an international agenda having established, in particular with the FAO on the one hand and with the UN on the other, the port point of this document. The Milan Charter will not be an intergovernmental document by choice, because the open vocation of the universal exhibition and its basic nature as an open platform of dialogue, at the center of which there is the visitor citizen with his ability to cross that site and to know the power of that theme, made the idea of an intergovernmental act objectively too restrictive compared to the potential of a commitment document, which we have called the Milan Charter, on which we are working and we have also worked Saturday with a very important day of in-depth study and gathering over 600 experts and personalities from all over the country who have helped us on the great themes of that document. The Milan Charter will be an act of direct commitment that will address businesses, citizens, associations and institutions and will be handed over on 16 October next to the UN Secretary-General, on the occasion of the visit he will make to the Expo, in view of the very important debate that the UN will hold in autumn-winter 2015 on the next millennium objectives. This is the international agenda that we want to live in the exhibition semester. The Milan Charter will also be prepared following the work called for earlier and that we condensed on Saturday with this great appointment. It will have its first version, from here to the next few weeks and in particular towards the end of March, when we will have a first fundamental text. Of course, it is not an intergovernmental document, but it is open to the 20 million visitors, who we hope to make 20 million ambassadors of the right to food, and it will have a dimension of commitment that will be addressed directly to these people, to companies, who are the fundamental subjects of the exhibition. This is not the Expo of the multinationals: this is the Expo and being an Expo is a meeting of companies, institutions, citizens, peoples, states; woe to us if some of these subjects were not called to responsibility: I would be surprised that there were no companies and I would not be surprised that there are and I would consider the fact that there are large enterprises an added value, not a decrease. I would add that this universal exposition, unlike those that preceded us, for the first time sees, in particular in the world of associations, NGOs and in the world of the third sector a protagonist: it is another fact that critics often do not consider; for the first time a universal exposition is not only of States and businesses, but of States, businesses, citizens and associations and for the first time also calls to collect the best of the organized representation of the Italian social fabric and not only. The keys to reading and the lines of conduct of the Milan Charter will be inserted in the wake of the great themes that the strategic document also recalled. It has rightly been said: waste, hunger, the fight against obesity, the great theme of research, the new frontiers of research. I am also responding to the issue of GMOs. I think it is well known to everyone how Italy, also through the pronunciations of the Senate and the House, has intended to do and will do on the side of non-GMO cultivation in this country. This, which is an act we know, will not allow us and will not allow anyone to give up serious work on the new frontiers of agricultural and agri-food research. We in this country already have very solid international research experiences both in the field of plants and animals that place us among the most advanced European countries in identifying some lines of research of extreme interest. With the work programme that Italy is preparing you will see that, thanks to Expo, it will work a lot on this front. There is a work plan with CNR and CRA of absolute interest. There are some research lines that we can present to the world and that the world will look with great interest. Let me give a concrete example, in order to understand ourselves, of the lines of research that this country has advanced on the animal front: I refer, in particular, to the great project that we have undertaken and that we are developing with China on the whole field of buffalo, which allows us to assert ourselves among the greatest experts in the world on this front. The work we are developing on research in the field of fruit and vegetables allows us to be among the most important European countries in the world to develop research on this front and I could go on, because these are important things to tell as they give the dimension of the power that Italy can express on this side. This also allows me to say that we are concretely carrying out important initiatives: in a few weeks we will host in Lodi the European Forum on the fight against agro-food counterfeiting, with some non-European players who will come to Italy, called by our country, in view of the Expo, to work on the whole front of anti-counterfeiting. Our country objectively boasts a know-how on the side of controls that other countries do not have and to realize this appointment before and in view of the exhibition will allow us to do an updating work on some advanced frontiers of contrast to counterfeiting. I am referring, in particular, to the great theme of the web frontier and to the whole topic that Italy has developed and that other countries have not developed of engagement and direct relationship with the great subjects of the web, on which we make school, so much so that the Italian case will be studied. Just to talk about concrete things, Italy recently blocked, with its control bodies, the clumsy operation of bulk prosecco that circulated in Europe: so it did school from this point of view, because it was the first time that a wine was sold bulky in those ways and within a few days we intervened on a European dimension. So we have things to say, and I think we're also doing some useful things. Our utmost attention, regarding Expo, is directed to the direct involvement of agricultural experience. On Saturday we had the new leader of the OMA, the World Organization of Farmers, a girl from Zambia. Unfortunately no one noticed it, but I would point out that it was the Italian Government that called in the game the most important world organization of agricultural unions and told this organization, with all the experience that it has, to come, to participate and to be the protagonist, together with the others, of this exhibition. I quote this case, but I could quote a lot more. Our attention to representing international agricultural experiences, beyond the usual known, is strong and Saturday we did it not because we needed an event, but because we wanted to start a job, that probably up to here was not done, but that you can definitely do from here to the next weeks in view of the Expo. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u72	RUTA (PD). I express satisfaction, on behalf of the PD Group, with an emphasis: if there is anything else to be prepared or defined, it is done, even with additional efforts, in these last ten weeks, then will begin Expo 2015 and Italy will present itself to the world. Therefore, stop the controversy; any criticism, founded or not, are all postponed until after October, because the national team will come on the field to play an extraordinary game: it is our country, Italy. For our part, there is full support for Expo 2015 to be an opportunity to offer the citizens of the world who will come, including the Italians and especially the new generations, the cognitive tools for a conscious food to be disseminated, the importance of respect for the environment and biodiversity, the right to food for all, together with the knowledge of cultures, stories and traditions that have their reflections in the food chain and with them the knowledge and exchange of products fruit of the earth. In this field Italy does not have equals and the world knows it, because it seeks the products of Made in Italy, which we must defend from the base protecting biodiversity and for this reason we say no to GMO productions. We must export the best of our extraordinary country, starting from the Mediterranean diet, UNESCO heritage.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u75	FACTORS (M5S). We are only partially satisfied with the Minister's reply, to be good. With regard to multinationals, I would like to inform the Minister that in fact the water at Expo, in a country where there was a referendum on public water, is distributed by a famous multinational. Take a look, maybe, so we can sort out the multinational issue. The former president of Brazil Lula pointed out that the poor and hungry will never be interested in events like Expo, which only give more power to the multinational food companies, which actually tend to conquer food and therefore have little to do with food sovereignty. I then put forward a proposal to the Minister: in order to combat poverty and hunger, let us really start from our country and commit ourselves so that in October, when we hand over the Milan Charter to Ban Ki-moon (a document which, as the Minister said, has no binding power and, therefore, will remain a document of good intentions), we give a strong signal to the Italian citizens, who really do not have to eat, giving them, together with the Milan Charter, the law on citizenship income.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u78	Formigoni (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr Minister, frankly, it seems to me that the path you have outlined is the right one. In fact, this is a great opportunity that our country has, of course, to give a great help to our producers to make known well, very well, our extraordinary products and to give, therefore, a return, also from the point of view of pride, to our productive world. But it is not only this: it is also the road - I thank you because, in your answer, you have well grasped the meaning of my question - for Italy to show itself to the world capable of proposing in an extraordinarily important and indeed fundamental sector such as that of food, with all its connections. We have the opportunity to grow from the point of view of reputation, from the political point of view and from the point of view of the attention that other countries have to return to dedicate to us: in fact, it is a little 'time - alas - that they consider Italy an Italian. We're not. This extraordinary opportunity we can and - I think - we all want to take it together.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u81	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Minister, I am not very satisfied with your reply. I would like to remind myself first and, therefore, also to you that we can rightly boast of our products - the products of our agriculture - thanks to the wisdom of thousands of years of our farmers. Our landscape, as you know, is also essentially linked to this important work. The new themes and the new issues that should be - I am sure they will be - at the heart of the Milan Charter cannot see an absolutely marginal and not protagonist role, within the International Expo, precisely of the peasants (of ours, as of those of other countries). On the other hand, relying solely on institutionalised forms or through the pavilions sponsored by multinationals, I do not think it is possible to give good service to our agriculture. We are all on the field, but the coaches - and I say this to Senator Ruta - must be the Italian farmers, the farmers of the world, the citizens: they cannot be four other coaches in the world, who are those who want to conquer the total monopoly of food.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u84	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Minister, we appreciate your commitment and, in this respect, we acknowledge the good will in what you are doing. There's no doubt about it. What worries us, however, is the general approach adopted by the Government, which is very based on the appearance and lack of attention to the substance. I fear that, in this case, your figure will not be sufficient if you do not succeed in imposing it within the Council of Ministers, because the figure of President Renzi - we have also understood it on Saturday - points more on the image and on the appearance, rather than on the concrete. If that were not the case, in fact, we would not explain why the Made in Italy still remains on the stake. This is a country that proposes itself as a large showcase and, above all, great opportunity for our agro-food sector. We do not want it to become a showcase for politics alone and only, in this case, for the President of the Council of Ministers. It has already been reminded by those who have preceded me that agriculture is the peasants. Agriculture is excellent and difficult to produce. Agriculture is, however, also paradoxes. We must defend our product, precisely from the example that we have in our hands these days: I am referring to the problem of clams linked to fish farming. We must go to Europe to impose ourselves, Mr President; we must go to Europe to impose ourselves, Minister. Six lines are not enough to say what the government has done or has not done: it is necessary to be present in a much more determined way, in this field.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u87	COMPAGNONE (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr Minister, you probably did not intend to answer me: I would like to clarify one point, which I hope I will be able to pass on to you. True, we are good and we are organizing this beautiful showcase that is the Expo, no doubt. But what are we exposing? Extraordinary products, which come out of our Italian culture, made of real agriculture, people who get their hands dirty and produce grapes and durum wheat, with which they make good pasta and good bread. These things we show, very well: however, let us see that this agriculture, while making that beautiful showcase, risks dying under the weight of taxes: I would like you and this Government to realize this and try to curb this crazy idea of the IMU on agricultural land, which today are already taxed and cannot produce even enough to give income to families, which then not only fail to have income, but also no more to pay the expenses. It must be realized, that this structure that is the land, at the present time, cannot give income to families, so it risks dying. When you turn around, after you've made this beautiful showcase, you'll find nothing, but only the desert, with so many desperate farmers who can't produce anything anymore. This I would like to convey, with the prayer to put the problem under attention, because agriculture is not only these beautiful things, but it is people who work the earth.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u88	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank Minister Martina for his helpfulness and all the interrogations.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u89	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-391.ana.u90	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 17 February, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.12 p.m.
