ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 17 December. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure begins. 9:39 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposal for an amendment to the timetable. At its meeting on 17 December, as the Senator Secretary said earlier, the Assembly was informed of the timetable adopted by a majority by the Conference of Leaders, on which a proposal was made for a change by Senator D'Alì, aimed at postponing the final vote of the RAI's draft reform law to 12 January 2016. ( [[Brusio.]] Colleagues, I'm sorry, you have to start working now, so please lower the tone of the chatterbox. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for an amendment tabled by Senator D'Alì. Verification of the quorum D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, before we proceed with the vote, I would ask you to proceed with the quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the proposal to amend the agenda of the president's proceedings. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings put forward by Senator D'Alì. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Group Heads on 17 December and communicated to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u5	The next item is the joint debate on draft law 2112-B and 2111-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, final votes on both measures will be taken by nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure. I would also point out that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The reporters, Senators Zanoni and Chiavaroli, have requested authorization to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Zanoni. (Brusio). Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to work in this way. I pray to those who do not want to listen to us move away from the Chamber or to turn down the tone of our voice, otherwise I will suspend the sitting. Please, Senator Zanoni.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u6	Madam President, senators and senators, thank you all for your attention. Today we are once again illustrating the bill of stability and the draft budget law after a month and in a partially changed picture both from an economic and an international political point of view. In this month, the House of Deputies approved at second reading both draft laws that now pass to the Senate for its second reading and for the final green light. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u7	I would ask my fellow senators to speak outside because every dialogue in this House resonates and multiplies. Senator Scilipoti Isgrò, please! ZANONI, rapporteur. I briefly comment on some general considerations on the law of stability but the interventions of the reporters, Senator Chiavaroli will speak after me, will focus on the novelties introduced to the House. Given the interest shown by the senators at the moment, I believe that I will greatly abbreviate my report and leave it to the record. The fiscal policy for 2016 and the following years, which is closely associated with the process of implementing structural reforms, aims to permanently bring the Italian economy back on a path of sustained growth and to promote employment. It is based on a gradual and incisive reduction in the tax burden, aimed at encouraging labour supply and investment in physical and human capital and supporting household consumption. Several actions are aimed at structurally strengthening competitiveness and the economy. During the examination in Parliament, the stability bill was enriched by important innovations that have enhanced its expansionary effects aimed at accelerating growth, such as further measures to encourage investment in the Mezzogiorno. In addition, in view of the serious events of terrorism, to strengthen the national security apparatus, a package of actions has been approved, covering two fundamental lines: the first is aimed at countering the risks of terrorist incidents through the modernisation of the instrumental equipment in use to the Armed Forces and the security and defence sectors, the strengthening of their surveillance and computer security capabilities and the increase of the economic treatment of the staff of the two sectors. But the other director, who represents the novelty of this intervention and which is politically significant, aims to further strengthen the defence of cultural values that are the pillars of our society with interventions ranging from urban redevelopment of the suburbs to initiatives to increase the cultural heritage of young people. The new security and culture measures have been dealt with using the financial spaces provided for in the parliamentary resolutions adopted on 8 October 2015 that allow the debt-to-GDP ratio for 2016 to be raised to 2.4 percent. The achievement of the structural balance remains confirmed in 2018. The maneuver that exits the Chamber, therefore, has a net balance to be financed equal to 35,4 billion, after the Senate, although with various modifications, had guaranteed the initial balances of the maneuver. In nominal terms, the 2016 net debt will be 2.4 percent of GDP and no more than 2.2% initially expected. This is due to the government's decision to immediately finance additional spending measures of 3.1 billion for security and culture. At the end of the House's work, more than 350 amendments were made to the text. They concerned very important speeches, also discussed in the Senate and which had been sent back to the House where they took stock of the debate and agendas produced by this branch of Parliament. The minor interventions on which so much is being discussed are actually a very small fraction of the whole maneuver and, therefore, our two reports will only focus on the major issues. The examination in the Commission was not trivial and required a commitment concentrated on Sundays and yesterdays.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u8	[[Senator Airola's comments.]] I would like to take this opportunity not to thank in a non-formal way the staff of the Senate Offices, in particular that of the Budget Committee, for the availability and seriousness of the work carried out. Of course, I would like to thank the Senators of the majority, but also the opposition, who, while presenting a large number of amendments, have allowed a quick examination of them, focusing only on what they considered to be priorities. All of this enabled the reporters to vote in favour of the mandate last night; for this I thank, in a non-formal way, President Tonini for having believed in it. Let us now examine the changes made to the House for general issues. It is up to me to examine the following issues: revenue and tax policies, measures for local authorities, public investment, labour and social security measures. While, after me, the other rapporteur will outline the following themes: banks, the safety and culture package, businesses and the Mezzogiorno, health and other interventions. In a nutshell, because each of us had the opportunity to analyze the documents, I recall that on tax revenues and policies in the House was suspended the effectiveness of regional laws and municipal deliberations for the part where taxes and additional taxes attributed to the same territorial authorities increase, instead of prohibiting the resolution of such increases (as provided for by the original rule). Again in fiscal matters I remember: the reduction of the IRES rate from 27,5 to 24 percent, confirmed since 2017. Among the novelties introduced during the examination in the Chamber sign: the assimilation to the incomes of employees of the income of the members of artisan cooperatives who have an employment relationship in an autonomous form, without prejudice to their social security treatment. In addition, I would like to point out the extension to 2016 of the rules allowing the clearing of debit cards in favour of companies holding unprescribed commercial and professional claims, certain, liquid and due, accrued against the public administration. There are many other measures planned, which anyone who wishes to examine in the text of the report will be able to give in order that it may be annexed to the acts. I would just like to point out, with regard to real estate taxation, that some measures have been introduced in the House of Members' reading on the properties given in convenient use to children and parents, introducing a 50% reduction in the IMU tax base. The reduction of the IMU is foreseen for the second home given in comodato to the child, in the territory included within the municipality of residence also of the parent. Among the other measures, also concerning real estate taxation, where the attention of both the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies has concentrated in order to facilitate in a particular way the topic of rents, I would like to remind you that, also following the agenda approved in the Senate, with favorable opinion of the Government, the Chamber of Deputies approved the measure of the rent due to the conductors who had benefited from the determination of law, for failure or partial registration of the contract - the so-called emergence of black in the rents - which is equal to the triple of the cadastral rent. In this way an important measure has been envisaged precisely for the benefit of the citizens who have had the courage to denounce the black in this area. I would therefore like to explain the measures planned for local authorities. The package of measures for local authorities is indeed fed: although a specific decree-law on local authorities has already been adopted last summer, the Stability Act has considered that it still needs to do a number of very useful things, in my view, in favour of these bodies. One of the most qualifying points is precisely the part that concerns the galaxy of municipalities and provinces - now large-area entities - and metropolitan cities, which from 2008 to 2014 have endured a very important part of the fiscal consolidation effort. The cumulative amount at 2015 of the various maneuvers that have followed is worth 19.3 billion euros, equal to 25% of the total expenditure of these institutions. Therefore, the contribution to the reduction of public expenditure has been very important. On the system of local authorities, in particular, we started from a condition of great difficulty, also due to the laws of stability of previous periods. The municipalities could be said to be satisfied with the intervention, which for the first time recognizes them the complete refreshment of the abolition of the IMU, but the law of stability for 2016 marks a real turning point for the local authorities of our country: for the first time there are no cuts in transfers, nor tightening of the constraints of public finance and, indeed, in 2016 the era of the internal pact of stability ends and we move to the more rational principle of budgetary balance on reinforced competence. The House of Deputies has made a significant contribution to the coverage and limitation of cuts for the Provinces, which was a subject strongly emphasized in the Senate, both during the examination in the Commission and in the interventions carried out in the Assembly, as has been strongly expressed on the topic of the Regions. Here too, for those who are interested, I leave the written text of the report to the documents, which explores these issues. I would like to say a few more words about public investment: as far as public investment is concerned, in addition to the measures to accelerate spending on European funds and the use of the investment clause, which is 0.3% of GDP, and therefore a little less than EUR 5 billion, with a leverage effect of total expenditure "freed" of 11.8 billion in 2016, particularly in the Mezzogiorno areas, the innovations in public investment have the same positive sign as the manoeuvre as a whole. The path towards a first form of financial autonomy of ANAS is also strengthened. Meanwhile, the innovations that have entered the maneuver since the beginning are consolidated: for the first time, after seven, eight years, the appropriations for the infrastructure sector are growing; the funds for ANAS and Ferrovie dello Stato are stabilized for the three-year period; the internal stability pact for the municipalities (at least partially) is exceeded, which had severely curbed local investments over the last five years. On the measures for work and pension, I would like to remind you that in this law of stability has been previewed the advance from 2017 to 2016 of the no tax area for pensioners. This is a strong initiative and affects about 6 million citizens who have a pension income of up to 8,000 euros. It is also planned to extend to the whole of 2016 the protection in the event of unemployment for precarious workers, the so-called DIS-COLL. The rule expired this year and this is an intervention to protect the weakest workers. The inclusion of maternity periods for the purpose of counting farm productivity premiums is recognised. This manoeuvre, in addition to the other measures we had taken in the Senate, shows attention to the whole range of workers who deal with the issue of motherhood. I will stop here, but I would ask you to hand over the full text of my report to the Presidency. I leave the floor to the rapporteur, Mrs Chiavaroli, whom I particularly thank for the work she has done together with seriousness and commitment, but also with affection and mutual esteem. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u9	The Presidency authorizes you to hand over the text of your speech so that it is annexed to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u10	I call the rapporteur, Senator Chiavaroli.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u11	Madam President, I will be very brief in explaining the other points that have been the subject of amendments to the House. I will say very little about the banks, because the debate on the stability bill has been almost totally absorbed by this issue. I would just remind you that in the Chamber it has transposed Decree-Law No 183 of 2015 concerning the resolution procedures of the Cassa di Risparmio di Ferrara, Banca Marche, Banca Popolare dell'Etruria and the Cassa di Risparmio of the Province of Chieti. The House has introduced on this subject a solidarity fund in favour of subordinated bondholders up to a maximum of 100 million euros that will be fed by the interbank fund for the protection of deposits, for the management of which a regulation and a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers must be issued, after hearing the competent Commissions, for the choice of the referees. In financial matters another important rule has been introduced concerning the single register of financial advisors, which transposes a bill approved here in the Senate. Another important issue included in the Chamber concerns security, for which €2.6 billion has been allocated, through the establishment of a fund for the enhancement of cybernetics and cybersecurity interventions and equipment for €150 million; a fund for the modernisation of instrumental equipment and equipment of police and firefighters for €50 million; a fund for extraordinary national security and defence interventions in relation to the terrorist threat for €245 million, as well as the bonus of €80 per month for members of the Forces of Order. Another measure has been introduced, which has passed under silence, but which I believe is important, always in the area of security, which concerns citizens in their homes: a tax credit of 15 million euros has been inserted for the video surveillance and alarm systems that citizens will insert into their homes. Little has been said about this, but I think it is an important issue. Important interventions have also been planned on the cultural front: I quickly remember the card for young people who are eighteen years old who will be able to use for cultural activities, but also the fund of 500 million euros for the regeneration and redevelopment of degraded areas. With regard to culture, education and university in general, the measures that had already been introduced in the Senate have been strengthened; in particular, the measure concerning scholarships, to which EUR 50 million have been added, has been strengthened, and measures have also been reinforced concerning those who study in conservatives, because a one-off bonus of EUR 1,000 for those who buy musical instruments has been added. A substantial part of the speeches concerns the South, a subject we discussed so much about in the Senate and which we had ideally entrusted to our colleagues in the House. With satisfaction we can say that the debate discussed here has been fully understood since the House has included a multi-annual tax credit, from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2019, for the investments of the enterprises of the eight regions of the South, differentiated according to the size of the enterprises: 20% for small enterprises, 15 for the mediums and 10 for the large ones, with a roof also in this case differentiated according to the size of the enterprise. The increase in the decontribution for new recruits to the South has also been accepted, but will start from 2017, as it will be conditional on both the authorisation of the European Commission and the recognition of the resources available in the Rotation Fund for the implementation of Community policies. I would like to stress that special attention will be paid to the recruitment of women in the context of this measure, if resources are available. This is also a subject that has very little to do with the debate, but I think it is a very important measure. The Mezzogiorno has also been allocated 20% of the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises to enterprises in the regions of the South. So this part of the maneuver that we had entrusted to the work of the House has found full implementation and great satisfaction on our part. Important measures were also launched for companies in general, despite the postponement of the reduction of IRES to 2017. A Fund of 300 million was introduced for export credit and the internationalisation of the production system. Another measure was also accepted, about which we had talked a lot here in the Senate, which concerns the deductibility of IRAP on seasonal workers. In fact, the House introduced the deductibility to 70 percent of the labour cost for seasonal workers employed at least one hundred twenty days a year. We believe that this is a very important measure for companies that use seasonal workers, especially tourism workers. Important health rules have been included, with the release of recruitments for emergency working hours and rest shifts for doctors and nurses, and new rules on the professional responsibility of health workers, as well as important rules in the social field, such as the card for discounts to families with at least three minor children. Another part of the relevant rules, which has little to do with the debate but which we consider to be significant, concerns games. An increase in the single draw has been introduced, from 15 to 17.5%; a reduction in the odds of winnings has been envisaged; moreover, additional equipment will not be allowed, except in place of existing ones. Then there are important innovations concerning the production of legislation in the sector, which will have to be the subject of agreement in the State-Regions Conference and local authorities. Finally, there is the most important rule regarding the absolute prohibition of advertising on generalist TV from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. There have been so many other important rules. I quote one for all concerning the RAI canon. We had allocated part of the extra revenue to additional exemptions for pensioners and we had not managed to make a rule on local TVs, which was accepted to the House. For the sake of a brief debate, as the time is short, I am limited to the most important measures and I too join in the thanks of my colleague for the work she has done at first and second readings because, thanks to the commitment of everyone, the offices, the President, the majority colleagues and, above all, those of the opposition, we have managed to get to this House with the mandate. With regard to the draft budget law, which is also the subject of the House's vote, I ask the Presidency to be able to supplement my speech with a brief report, to be annexed to the Minutes of the sitting, as the House has been subject to very few and very limited amendments. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u12	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u13	I call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u14	Madam President, the consumption of this rite, which has also been aggravated by the times that are being imposed on this debate, cannot lead us to a favourable consideration of what is happening, not only from a substantive point of view, but also from a formal and procedural point of view from the point of view of compliance with the rules, which is also a matter of substance in this House. We have listened to the rapporteurs - whom I always thank for their attention and punctuality, although this time it has not been so - who, by their own admission, have necessarily had to proceed for examples: the report has gone for examples or samples of standards. It is clear that this is the case: the text of the Chamber has 999 paragraphs, while the one that came out of the Senate had about 400. Such a large addition of rules to the House could only result in an urgent examination, as always happens under Christmas and before the summer holidays when you approve anything and at any time. It is clear, therefore, that we could proceed only by sample. But I wonder if this is our way of working. I also wonder because there is a fundamental flaw that has been consumed in the passage to the House and, therefore, also in this return to the Senate. In the transition to the House in the law of stability an increase of the net balance to be financed has been expected. It is an absolute novelty that this happens without a prior approval of a Note of variation to the Document of economy and finance. When the law of stability came to the Senate at first reading, certain parts of the opposition, including my own, tried to make amendments - and I shall then say on what sensitive matters - to be covered by an increase in this item (Annex 1, Article 1). We were told that these amendments were totally inadmissible. If we take Annex 1, we can see that the differences between the text dismissed by the Government and the text that now arrives at the Senate for its second reading are determined by the Document of Economics and Finance. It is therefore not possible to accept amendments which can change the figures. I wonder then how this operation could have been done in the House and how it is possible that the Senate Presidency, which I regret to bring into play, considered a text that has a different figure in the annex to Article 1: exactly 35.4 billion for 2016, compared with 32 billion provided for in the text hesitated by the Government. The maximum level of recourse to the financial market is also expected to be 278.4 billion, compared with 275 billion in the government's text. I repeat that the text had been hesitated by the Government on the basis of the outcome of the Economic and Financial Document approved by the two Chambers; any modification to that figure, as it has been done in the past and as it should have been done in the House (but we are another autonomous branch of Parliament), must be made after approval of a Note of variation to the DEF. This is provided by Law No 196 of 31 December 2009, in Article 10, when it deals with the DEF, its contents and what the DEF must expressly indicate among its contents. Previously, any government has followed these indications: whenever there has been a change in balances (we do not then talk about the margin of indebtedness, because one is a consequence of the other or vice versa), this has been preceded by the approval, by both branches of Parliament, of a Note of variation to the DEF. Now, we regret the fact that the House did not want to do this, but it is not allowed, under the law of accounting and public finance, that this can be done through the submission of a series of simple amendments and a summary amendment of the increase of this limit by the Government. Otherwise, we should believe that in 2009 we did an academic exercise in modifying the law of accounting and public finance and that this can be derogated from when we want a simple amendment. Although it is not a constitutional law, it is certainly a law of rigidity, in the sense that its requirements must also be observed in ordinary legislation. I therefore appeal to the Presidency first, because this debate cannot proceed unless there is the approval of a note of variation in the Economic and Financial Document. Then, from a political and substantive point of view, I will now say why perhaps this has not been done. These changes are in fact the result of amendments tabled by the Government to the House in the last twenty-four hours of the debate. We have returned not only to a law of stability similar to the old financials, which we wanted to overcome with the 2009 reform, and which we have all criticized as the main source of the enormous growth of public debt in our country, but we have even reached a law of stability that, wanting to make a constitutional assimilation, is a sort of accelerated decree-law. While we criticize the fact that many issues are dealt with by decree-law, without the necessity and urgency of a definitive conversion into law within sixty days, there is an increase of 3 billion on the skin and the recourse to debt passes, with the forecast of a huge series of rain donations in various sectors and in various sectors of the administrations, made over twenty-four hours. In fact, there is the possibility for the Government, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, to table amendments even after the expiry of the deadlines; then it comes here and in one day you have to approve the measure. So the government uses regulatory instruments, which should be exceptional, to put in place a sort of accelerated decree-law. We don't even have 60 days left to talk about the banks, the country's banking crisis and what to do. The rapporteur has rightly cleared the speech by saying that she would not comment on these speeches, because a great deal has already been said about them. But where? Newspapers, talk shows, TV shows? I mean, it's been talked about, but not here. Today we are approving an important standard for the national banking system, which has been fired from the House within 24 hours and is overcome here by the imperative need to approve the text as it is, in order to avoid that we can go to a revision and a debate even after Christmas. The truth is that the law of stability should contain much more than all this indistinguishable and even confusing mass of provisions that have been introduced to you. Let me give you an example, President. No more than a week ago, we passed a decree-law on territorial authorities that carries a framework rule of interventions in favour of the CONI, including the possibility of drawing on a fund of 100 million for the promotion of Rome 2024; not content with this, the House (perhaps following some single solicitation) added another 10 million only for the Rome Committee 2024 of the CONI, that then it is not known what is deciding, because the parliamentary passage on an expenditure and on a fact of this importance for the country has been completely denied. A budget of 100 million was made available for another measure and then an addition was made to the House on the same subject a week later. I could really cite a lot of these examples. The confusing state with which this Government is proceeding and trying to confuse ideas with us in Parliament has never been registered before, Madam President; then it is clear that in the excitement of these hours which, before Christmas, will bring the majority (of course not us) to approve anything provided that Parliament is closed, the opinions of the parliamentary committees are also ignored. I wonder, then, what we are asking him to do with the views of the parliamentary committees. The Commission has laid two conditions, Madam President, and I hope that it will be in the proceedings of the Presidency. When a Commission is unanimous, this is all the more so with the consent of the majority, because both the approval of the opinion and the unanimity could certainly not be achieved without the majority. Well, the Justice Commission has laid down two conditions: the first is that the provisions of paragraph 609 of Article 1 of the bill of stability be revised and the second is that the provision referred to in paragraph 777 of the same Article 1 is revised. We know that the maneuver is made up of a unique article because it has been approved with confidence, so it has reached 999 paragraphs and maybe they have unified some dispositions to avoid that the figure is displayed Â 1,000 Â and therefore that the monster emphasized its abnormity also through a minimum of media detection. If a parliamentary committee unanimously lays down conditions, we cannot dismiss a text which does not undergo the changes imposed by those conditions. I repeat that in the Commissions the majority that governs the government is also the one that determines the vote, so that means that there has also been a clear majority position against some predictions of this bill of stability. This is another example, Mr President, that I am going to tell you that we cannot proceed with the examination of this draft law, while the absence of the Note of Variations and the DEF, a circumstance that completely violates the rules of the budget law, of the accounting law approved in 2009, should already in itself provide for the postponement or suspension pending the arrival of the Note; moreover, we cannot proceed with the obvious violation of certain conditions laid down by the parliamentary committees and voted unanimously. After that, I too must confess, as the rapporteurs have done, that it is very difficult to enter into the commentary on all these rules. In fact, approval can also take place in a very short time - we are obliged to follow the debate that takes place in the Chamber of Deputies and we are doing so - but it is clear that it takes adequate time to learn what we are talking about. We are discussing the world universe and, in the pre-lectoral time managed by other governments, the financial maneuvers were certainly less full of shame than the bill under consideration. On the occasion of the first reading of the measure, in carrying out the minority report I had to say that there were some strong absences in the bill as hesitated by the Government and, then, as approved by the Senate. The Government had completely neglected pensioners, exodus, the Mezzogiorno and the security sector and had diminished the beneficial effects of reducing public expenditure because it was unable to exploit them. Now it is said that some of these shortcomings have been overcome. Of course, in the course of the parliamentary debate we are not given the opportunity to understand how this has been resolved, but it is certainly not conceivable that we can consider an intervention on unemployment in the Mezzogiorno only because it is postponed until 2017, because the European Commission still has to give us some answers regarding the funds that we can use. The reduction in public expenditure, which is expected to amount to approximately EUR 9.5 billion, is still completely indeterminate and, as always, because of the dynamics it is taking, will not produce results in these terms. There has been nothing said about the exodus and, on the contrary, all the amendments we have tabled have been rejected in order to completely resolve the sad parenthesis of our social security history. On pensioners all televisions (which receive many advantages with this measure) take care to highlight the 100 euros of difference per year for each family, as if they were the solution to all the social problems of our country. Madam President, on pensioners, the extension of the no-tax area from EUR 7.750 to EUR 8.000 is really something I would be ashamed to be propaganda. Our proposal to raise minimum pensions to EUR 1,000, with an average increase of more than EUR 200 per month, has instead been rejected. I must remind you that the rejection of this proposal of ours in the Senate was motivated by the impossibility of increasing the amount of recourse to debt, which was instead done by the government at low hand and without the preliminary presentation of the Note of variation to the DEF, which is mandatory under our law of accounting and public finance. All the elements I have stated cannot but lead to a heavily negative judgment on this confusing measure, whose beneficiaries are naturally chosen with the scalpel of political conditioning. Other than the elimination of the old practices of the assault on diligence! This measure is an assault on a diligence which, among other things, has nothing in it, because an unsustainable increase in public debt is being used. In the past years we said that the public debt of this country was also committing the productivity of our children, while by now we can say that, thanks to this Government, we also commit our grandchildren to the payment of what will be the tragedy of the results of public finance, when - the warnings from all markets already come - the rates will go up and increase the absolute value of our public debt, with an increasing burden to bear. These are unsustainable and intolerable dynamics; they are dynamics of irresponsibility that the Government is putting in place against the country. This bill of stability is not an assault on diligence, but on the country and its accounts, with the inability of this Government to exploit also the international economic situation. The Government is banning a GDP growth of 0.8 (which, among other things, is the lowest figure in the euro area and compared to countries that have the sign "+" as an increase in gross domestic product), but it does not tell us that the decrease in the price of oil - which for us is a strong item of impact on gross domestic product - to about 35 dollars per barrel, from a maximum of almost 100 recorded this year, has given our country the possibility to have an advantage on GDP of 1.5 points. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. D'ALLI, minority rapporteur. Therefore, if our country had limited itself to enjoying the advantage of a single voice of the international conjuncture, it would have had to mark a growth of 1.5; but, marking an official growth in the numbers of 0.8, the Government declares that it has been able to make our country regress by 0.7%. In the light of these last considerations, we can only reaffirm our absolute opposition to this bill of stability in the method, in the mortifying way Parliament deals with, for the absolute stringency (which is an understatement) that is the total absence of the debate here, and in essence for the considerable damage it will do once again to the country's economy, throwing it towards even darker times. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u17	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am speaking in order to formalise the proposal, which has already largely emerged from the minority report which Senator D'Ali has just carried out, to suspend the examination of this measure while waiting for the necessary clarifications to arrive. I would like to refer in full to what the minority rapporteur, Senator D'Ali, has said, starting with the inconsistencies in the balances. We are talking about more than three billion; we are talking about a large number of rules on which the Budget Service's reading note informs us that in dozens of cases there is no technical report. In some cases, the Budget Service states that it does not have any comments on this, because these are cases where a technical report was not necessary, but in several others it notes that it would be essential to have a technical report in order to understand, for example, whether the proposed wording includes new expenditure or not. In any case, it should be specified (otherwise what technical relationship is it?). I would also like to point out that this valuable note of reading by the Budget Service, for which we must thank our technicians for the efficiency and speed of our work (which, moreover, is the subject of attacks on a very low level by the President-in-Office of the Council for several months ago, and whose defence, I note with deep disappointment, has been delegated only to the opposition senators), has reached me more or less five minutes ago, thanks to in-depth contacts made by my Group's legislative office (which I also thank), because it was not available on the Internet. I am talking about 220 pages, which I received a few minutes ago, for which I would need more than a few minutes to read; despite this, in these five minutes I have verified the numerous points of lack of technical report that have been highlighted. Obviously, those who consider that they approve these rules do not need comments, the result of hours and hours of work; they do not need anything, because they would approve of whatever was proposed to them. I note, however, that we are in the absence of a technical report, even on points where the report is strictly necessary and on the second stage in which these rules are adopted. Here we have nothing new for Parliament (for the Senate very much); this means that we are going... I am sorry, the majority is going to approve not for the first time, but for the second time - for the first time in the House and for the second time in the Senate - rules without the necessary elements for their assessment both political and technical. You think it's okay, but frankly, I'm not of that opinion. Here we are talking about billions of new expenditures which add to a law of stability in deficit. It is thought that, in the last month of surveys of the Bank of Italy (which arrives two months after the facts, because obviously they must be made of the accounts), our country has been indebted for an additional 20 billion euros. It means that every Italian finds himself personally, at the end of a single month, with about 375 euros more debt. Even for the main beneficiaries of these rules; let's talk about the famous eighteen-year-olds, of whom, since they go to vote for the first time, we try to buy, in a very unworthy way, the vote with known measures: to fight terrorism, they give themselves the money to go to the cinema, a very curious measure, but quantifiable in 500 euros for the whole year. Last month alone, in exchange for these 500 euros, 375 euros of extra debt were found, as well as all their family members, who obviously will not receive these 500 euros. The famous recipients of the 80 euros that the Government distributes know that, compared to those 80 euros more that are found in the pocket, there are 375 euros more debt and for a single month. Therefore, since there is the Renzi Government, every Italian is found with 1,900 euros of extra debt; each, not every family: even children, null and void and disabled people. Therefore, we are faced with a debt that is 306 billion more than when there was the famous crisis, spread and drama of 2011. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] After three or four years of consolidation we find ourselves with 306 billion more debt and, even by calculating the prodigious increase in GDP by 0.8 points and making the due counts of the last few years, our GDP will be, at the end of the year, 4% less than 2011, before the healers arrived. Therefore, with the healers - including this Government - every Italian is found with almost 6,000 euros more debt, personally, and an income that, on average, has fallen by 102 euros per month. GDP has fallen by 4%; one will say who cares, but this means that every Italian average has an income of 102 euros lower this year than four years ago. With these premises we want to continue with the adoption of a law of stability, with an avalanche of measures whose coverage is not clear because the burden is not clear. This really seems to me to be an irresponsible act, and that is why I propose to suspend the examination of this measure, at least to know what is being approved. We agree that the majority would vote for anything and that we have already read enough to oppose it, but I think it is certainly necessary, a technical, practical and regulatory obligation, to know what we are voting for. In fact, reading this law of stability, because of the inconsistencies, well emphasized by Senator D'Alì, and the indeterminateness of certain covers, we do not even know exactly what the balance is. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u20	TONINI (PD). Mr President, I think it is necessary to add two brief remarks to the speech made by Senator Malan, who in some way, if left unanswered, would also question the correctness of the work done in the Budget Committee yesterday. The first concerns the issue of balances which was addressed in the report to Parliament presented by the Government last October. In this report it is said, inter alia, that in 2016, in particular, the measures under the Stability Act will result in an increase in net debt in general government of around 0.4 percentage points of GDP, i.e. a debt of 2.2% instead of 1.8% envisaged in the 2015 DEF. This value, which is always stated in the report to Parliament, would rise to up to 2.4% of GDP if a margin of flexibility were recognised in Europe to compensate for the expenditure and economic and financial impacts of the immigration wave. The structural deficit would deteriorate by 0.4 percentage points of GDP in both scenarios, because immigration-related expenditure would be considered extraordinary and therefore not indicative of the underlying fiscal trend. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u21	Excuse me, Senator Tonini.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u22	Colleagues senators, President Tonini is responding to questions also raised by your Group. Please, Senator Tonini. TONINI (PD). The Government has put Parliament in a very clear position and has indicated the possible increase in debt from 2.2 to 2.4 percent. Immediately afterwards, on the basis of this report to the Parliament, the Chambers, and in particular the Senate, approved the resolution Zanda, Schifani, Zeller of 8 October 2015 in which it is said: "The Senate authorizes the Government, pursuant to Article 81, second paragraph, of the Constitution and Article 6 of the Law of 24 December 2012, n. 243, to implement what is indicated in the Report cited in premise, within the maximum limits indicated therein." So Parliament, and specifically the Senate, has explicitly authorized the Government to fully use all the flexibility clauses up to 2.4 percent in debt. Secondly, with regard to the technical report, what was written by the Budget Service was true at the time when this Service published that note but yesterday, before the amendments were voted on, the technical report was received as explicitly requested by the Presidency of the Commission to the Government. I would never have put the amendments to the vote if there had not been a technical report and if it had not been given to my fellow senators a sufficient time to examine it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u23	I put to the vote the suspensive question put by Senator Malan. It's not approved. GIARRUSSO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u24	I declare the joint general discussion open. She's enlisted to speak Senator Mangili. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u25	Madam President, in the maneuver that has returned to the Senate for your third and last reading, this year too we have found many surprises that make us say... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u26	Colleagues, a senator is intervening. I would ask you to go quietly and speak again after you have left the Chamber. Otherwise, it will not be possible for Senator Mangili to continue, because her voice cannot overtake the buzz.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u27	MANGILI (M5S). Thank you, Madam President. I was saying that we have found many surprises that make us say that nothing has changed compared to the old financial maneuvers. We thought we didn't see any more gifts, boils, tips, but that didn't happen: the commas grew out of proportion until we reached the number of 999! Another surprise was the words of the Minister for Economic Affairs, who said: From 2016 the debt returns to decline after eight years of increase and that strengthens the internal and international credibility of the Country and has added that the reduction of taxes that takes place on the first January will increase the income and confidence of the families and therefore the consumptions, that this year have finally recovered. Too bad other authoritative interlocutors don't think so! In fact, from a sample survey, it turns out that the disposable income of Italian households in 2014 turned out to be up by 0.5% compared to 2012, but the real income and its purchasing power have been reduced by 1%. Due to the dynamics determined by the last governments it has gone worse to the poorer families, than instead of having more protections they have suffered a loss of 32 percent of the disposable income, that is double the one suffered by the Italian families as a whole. After the austerity measures of previous governments, even the current government has not managed to put in place effective solutions to reduce the level of poverty. The new entry card for families can certainly not be a solution to the problems that the weakest classes face daily. Rather, it gives the idea of yet another electoral slogan, such as that of the 80 euros per month that certainly increased inequalities instead of thinning them. Not only did this bonus prove to be unfair, but it was also ineffective for the revival of domestic demand, as can be seen from the new macro-economic framework on the horizon, which is more uncertain than ever and in which weak growth is emerging. The macro-economic factors that could have pushed our economy are changing. There is already talk in Europe of a descending parable that sees the scope of action of the States increasingly reduced in order to counter the consequences of the crisis. It should be remembered that the Government has set new levels of public finance balances, raising in particular the net debt of 0.2 percent of GDP to 2.4 percent of the product in 2016 increasing the deficit target mostly to finance a series of measures intended for different purposes, including an extraordinary bonus of 80 euros monthly to the Order Forces and a card for cultural purchases of young people who make eighteen years in 2016. Brussels' green light for all flexibility clauses remains and is therefore crucial. If additional flexibility for investment and structural reforms were not granted in the spring, the infringement procedure could be opened, with the real risk of causing adverse effects on all citizens, particularly the weakest. It does not appear that the establishment of the law has been strengthened; the problem of safeguard clauses remains and the future for Italians is increasingly uncertain. This measure, to say of all those involved, reflects the temporary nature of some covers, as well as the postponement of safeguard clauses will require substantial budget cuts or revenue increases starting from 2017! The Parliamentary Budget Office also stated that: However, the relatively expansive fiscal policy for 2016 adopted to cope with a fragile economic environment presents significant risks in subsequent years. This is all the more true because the assumptions of nominal GDP growth contained in the Budgetary Plan Paper, in the light of recent economic developments, seem to be subject to strong risks of downward revision. In this respect, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has recently stated that growth of 0.9 per cent of GDP is a forecast and there is a risk of having to review it, but now we have no concrete elements that will lead us to revise that figure. Citizens are at risk of being the weakest link in a chain that sees tax reductions pouring into the last to make the accounts of local authorities square. This is the message that can be seen from the content of those rules that require municipalities and regions to restrict their budgetary constraints even more. The cuts to local authorities will force administrators to sell out to private individuals or to raise tariffs. On this point, the Court of Auditors gave its opinion stating that, between 2016 and 2018, local government support for the achievement of public finance objectives is of particular importance. The Stability Act, making maximum use of deficit flexibility spaces, explicitly reduces margins of protection for public accounts and leaves unresolved issues (clausulas, public contracts, pensions) and important issues such as the reorganization of local government funding. The only logical consequence of this is the reduction in the quality of services for the benefit of citizens. It seems unnecessary to point out that, if the Government does not find far-reaching solutions for local authorities even for the years to come, the usual consequences will always be to pay for them. In conclusion, this Government, acting like the other precedents, postpones the solution of any problem and is relieved of all responsibility. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Engili. MANGILI (M5S). All this has the sole and sole purpose of conquering much of the electorate. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u28	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, given the short time available to me, I would ask that I be able to attach my speech to the documents.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u30	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u31	I would remind you that your speech must remain within the four minutes envisaged. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, ma'am, within four minutes. We are close to the Christmas festivities and we have reduced ourselves to the limit to intervene on such an important subject. On the law of stability there would be so much to say... [[Brusio.]] Excuse me, colleagues. There would be so much to say, but I will only dwell on one issue which has been of interest to the Italians in recent days, but which has been very debated, both by politicians and non-political. I'm talking about what everyone calls... [[Brusio.]] President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you are a victim of what you did to others this morning. I've called her back several times. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Me? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yeah, yeah! ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). No. I'm sorry to contradict you, but you're telling a lie. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I do not allow this, because you have long talked with Senator Romani, disturbing; while I was taking her back, you did not listen to me. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). President, I'm sorry to contradict you... You can't say I'm lying. Please continue and ask your colleagues... CHOICES ISGRO' (FI-PdL XVII). President, I'm sorry to contradict you, but you're lying. [[Senator Candiani's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u32	No, Senator Scilipoti Isgrò, I do not allow this and I also explained to you what was the episode I was referring to.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u33	Continue in your speech, hoping that your colleagues will be so courteous as not to disturb you. Please continue. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, President. We hope to be able to resume this minute used in our debate in order to continue my reflection. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please continue. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). President-in-Office of the Council. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall just comment on the question of the so-called bank-saving measure, which everyone has discussed: the great opinionist journalists have done so in particular, but also the great politicians, who have made so much talk, but have not actually discussed the real problem. What should we say to Italian citizens and, in particular, to those who are representatives of the Government and who are outraged? I use this word even though Jesus Christ, in his history, was indignant only once. Here, however, we have people who are constantly indignant, and in particular the representatives of the Government, who should listen and instead, with great superficiality, think they know everything. In 1992, dear President, the Bank of Italy was privatised. Immediately after the privatisation of the Bank of Italy, from 1992 to 1999, all the banks applied on loans that were made to the Italians interest rates that were called "use piazza": they were wear and tear rates that almost 32 percent. The banks have cheated about 52 billion Italians. In 2014 at the Senate and the Chamber we voted a law that gave the possibility to buy shares of the Bank of Italy and financial intermediaries. In 2015 we voted and said with great nonchalance that it was appropriate to make the forced levy above 100,000 euros in case the banks, as far as the accountants were concerned, had some difficulties. In addition to these three passages, there is another one that is truly shameful, because the banks have carried out a behavior of extreme unfairness, and all this had to be controlled by the Bank of Italy. I would like to ask you a question, Mr President, and the government gentlemen who are outraged when someone doesn't think like them. How can the Bank of Italy control banks if it is no longer the Bank of Italy, but it is a privatised bank and its shareholders are the banks present on national and European territory? I want to say to the friends who are on the other side of our rope and in the rows of the center-left: how can the Bank of Italy be controlled and controlled at the same time? How can banks be controlled and controlled at the same time? This is what we should have seen. In the law of stability we had to make very serious and concrete interventions. Which ones? We had to predict the return of the Bank of Italy to the Italians. Another immediate intervention was to be the separation between commercial banks and business banks. In fact, it is not conceivable what happens today in Italy: when speculative transactions by banks and shareholders are good, then they collect that money the bank and the shareholders; when instead they go wrong, we ask for the socialization of the debt. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator Scilypoti Isgrò. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). I shall conclude, Mr President. Three things we should have done immediately: to return the Bank of Italy to the Italians; to pass a law by which commercial banks are separated from business banks; and a third intervention, for which it was necessary to take courage to carry it forward and support it: to impose us, within the European community, for the creation of a parallel currency to try to get out of this moment of great difficulty. President, I understand that my time is perhaps over. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish. It's already over. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you for your great willingness and I hope that, within this Parliament, there will be respect for those who think otherwise: we could all together or should build a useful path for the Italians and our children. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Buccarella]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u34	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u35	Madam President, the North League considers this law of stability to be a completely inadequate measure. It is a maneuver in severe deficit and will inevitably lead to a further increase in public debt. This choice is not the solution, but it will cause the country and all of us to sink more and more. The deficit-GDP ratio was raised from 2.2% to 2.4%, with the goal of consolidation of public finances being removed. The forecasts of the increase in GDP sin to say the least of excessive optimism. It is a law of stability strewn with micro-interventions of facade useful to print numerous slides, but contains few important and effective answers. The furrow between the real country and the country of Renzi and its government is getting deeper and deeper. We're having a dramatic moment, and you're pretending nothing. The real life of citizens is characterised by many concerns for their future. Today we are experiencing fears and uncertainties that we did not have in the past, first of all for work: the real figures of unemployment are increasingly alarming; too many citizens are experiencing the tragedy of not being able to find a decent role in our society. You live, then, with the fear of not being able to reach a decent pension, because of the infamous Fornero law, which plans to work longer and to have hunger pensions. You don't feel safe in your own homes anymore. We are now at the mercy of organized gangs, of criminals who trust in impunity. It does not feel safe in its cities, with an absolutely uncertain and inadequate Government in the fight against terrorism. The money in the bank isn't safe either. Life savings can disappear overnight with a government decree. This is the real country of the Renzi Government and you have great responsibilities: you have made it so, with the empty prison, with the decriminalization of so-called minor crimes against people and heritage; with the billionaire policies of the invasion and the inability to identify who enters our country [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni]] ; with the infamous Fornero law and the exodus; with the recent measures save bankers and savers; with a single European currency that has made our economy more fragile and less competitive; with the sanctions to Russia that hit our exports and take away opportunities for growth and employment in the country. And Renzi takes credit that they're not his. If the European Union's pressure on public finances and respect for the parameters of the individual Member States' budgets has decreased, Renzi's merit is not, he is a smasher and boasts to strip Merkel. The merit is that of the European citizens who are reacting and who, by vote, are sending strong signals against European policies. Everywhere they lose the parties that have imposed the euro on this Europe that enriches few and hits the masses hard. The European Socialist and People's Party only resists in Germany, demonstrating that this Europe was built on the interests of a single state. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The new wind blowing in Europe will also sweep Renzi away. It's only a matter of time. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We are experiencing a situation of apparent calmness due to a favourable economic situation. The time had to be used for targeted (but decisive) cuts to public expenditure, to the now unsustainable costs of the state apparatus. No serious spending review took place, but only continuous resignation of those who had to do such work. The only cuts imposed by this Government are those directed to local authorities now on the verge of failure (Comuni, Provinces, Regions), with serious repercussions on the essential services to people, in particular on health. The only cuts Renzi can make are those that must fall on the shoulders of others, of the mayors, of the governors, of the citizens. The truth is that the government is strong in the parliamentary classrooms. It has numbers thanks to those who have only one goal: to make the legislature last and not go home. But it is increasingly weaker in the country, despite the rivers of words of the President of the Council and the complacency of the major media. This is not the law of stability that can help our country. This is not the Government that can respond to the legitimate, true and realistic fears and uncertainties that we are experiencing. There is an alternative path and the League has the will and determination to build it through a next government that will not be born from the palace games, but from the citizens' vote. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u36	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u37	Madam President, we are going to vote on this law of stability, in the past financial law. Already during the last reading we proposed a series of working and social security rules that would certainly benefit the world of work and the people who have to retire. At present - and I quote a few aspects - we see a new rule incorporating accounting experts into the National Social Security Fund of accountants and trade experts. It is very good to incorporate new figures, but there is a small problem: these cases - in my opinion - seem to be the new frontier of easy spoils. In 2014 - it was a year ago and, in a period of time like this, the problems of a social security fund were not solved with a snap of a finger - there were problems in this register and even the president was arrested. It is fine to incorporate other figures, but we believe that the State has a duty to include guarantee clauses that limit the investments of these gentlemen. We also believe that checks should be carried out to make everything that the President of a social security fund does fully transparent. We therefore believe that controls should be put in place when these funds invest at least EUR 10,000. Are there few? No, in Britain there are checks on smaller figures. I now come to the recurring seasonal workers. President, I do not know how else to say this. Our Group had repeatedly stressed the emergence of a problem in Italy at the time of the introduction of the new calculation of unemployment, called today's new employment social insurance (NASPI). If it is true - and it is true - that Italy is a beautiful nation with a fantastic climate and many historical and archaeological assets, it must focus on tourism. We all agree and we go on television shows to say that we must focus on tourism. But how do they want to do this if you have told your future tourist workers that their future is without a family? You said that if you live in areas where work is seasonal recurrent, you have to move to a different State or Region and, therefore, you cannot have a family because you have to move continuously. AIROLA (M5S). There's no money to pay. PUGLIA (M5S). Ask for flexibility from others, but not for you. AIROLA (M5S). I'm only here for gambling. PUGLIA (M5S). We then ask once again for these gentlemen to be reinstated the previous calculation and we ask it not alone, but together with many other people. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator. PUGLIA (M5S). Already? Was that five minutes? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's been four minutes and twenty seconds. PUGLIA (M5S). Then there are the reductions for new hires, which you have reduced by 60 percent. We said not to touch the previous law that gave 100 percent to employers. You have not only annulled a previous law, but you have also reduced it by 60%. As far as non-onerous reunions are concerned, we had asked that there be no cost at the time when money is passed from one pension fund to another. The state is asking for flexibility in work. So, today I'm a trader, tomorrow I'm an employee enrolled in a cash register, the day after tomorrow I'm a professional: if I have to put together all the contributions, I can't even pay a cost to do it. It is the State, however, that is telling me that work is flexible. I conclude by saying that once again you have made a measure on poverty without money. We ask for the income of citizenship, which envisages giving people the opportunity not to remain without money and, therefore, not to have to go begging. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u38	Senator Romani Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start from the European Commission's opinion on Italy's 2016 Budget Plan Paper. For Italy, in particular, the Commission has identified a potential risk of non-compliance with the Stability and Growth Pact and, in particular, of significant deviation from the path towards the medium-term objective. It therefore reserves the right to continue to monitor compliance with the obligations of the Stability and Growth Pact, including and above all in the evaluation of the next stability programme. I must say that three countries subject to preventive arms (Austria, Italy and Slovenia) and one country subject to corrective arms (Spain) are at risk of non-compliance. Having said that, I see that budgetary balances are being eased in our law of stability, which, however, is more a fact of the impossibility of achieving the planned objectives than of questioning the European faith. The resources for growth are less than what is claimed and are intended to substantially reduce labour costs. However, in the final analysis, industrial and structural policies are lacking. There is no coherent redistributive fiscal policy. The tax system mainly affects the middle classes, workers and consumers, while high incomes, assets and profits are still poorly engraved by the tax system. I think that this law of stability, unfortunately, like all the laws of stability, is what it takes to survive, that is, not to drown. However, we remain at the mercy of the storm, with resignation to resist as long as possible. That is why the governments of politicians are often replaced by the governments of technicians and, therefore, the laws are in the hands of the Executive, with technicians disguised as politicians at the service of survival day by day, with the illusion of opening up to who knows what future. Here's another thing for me to live. To live is to design what is not yet there and that we would like to see realized in the future. To exist in order to exist is a pure non-sense and it is the cause of the removal of citizens from politics, the policy that increasingly relies on technicians or takes refuge in personal selfishness. If there are no projects on which we can make a political choice, we will have no knowledge and no choice but only necessity. This has become our condition. Someone may be well and ill, but this is only due to the place they occupy. What happened to the ideas? What happened to the plans? We are dominated by finance without a doubt purpose other than itself. Culture and politics become almost enemies, activating moral feelings, while capitals, moved from one square to another in the world, are completely deprived of moral feelings; indeed, they see them as enemies. We must not be optimistic or pessimistic about this law of stability, but we must simply try not to be silly. Our efforts must not be made to survive, but to plan a future, what is not yet there, and to hope that it can be realized. [[Applause from Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u40	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on this occasion I have taken less account of the work of the rapporteurs and the minority rapporteur, because we are actually putting a stamp on what the House has done today and that we have just had time to read. The other branch of Parliament has consistently increased expenditure, in a more or less acceptable way. Of course, at this point, if the revenue provided for in the fight against evasion or tax revenues were less than expected, we would have serious problems with Europe, with markets, but above all the Italians would have very serious problems. I do not pretend to discuss the so-called bank-saving measure, because I know that it has been decided to exclude the Senate from this argument. I take advantage, however, of the presence on behalf of the Government of a serious and competent person, beyond the differences of opinion, as is Deputy Minister Morando, to make a consideration. CONSOB and Banca d'Italia are two supervisory authorities that have very important tasks; their prestige and their credibility are a heritage of the country system at national and international level. And, therefore, it is essential that savers, small or large, and international markets have the certainty that CONSOB and Banca d'Italia have rules that allow them to function well and are managed by capable and credible people, otherwise they are and will be serious problems. I do not know the cards of the four banks that came into crisis and, therefore, I do not express opinions, because I feel responsible. However, I strongly call for the Government to demonstrate that it makes sense for the institutions. If the rules are to be improved, the government will tell us and we will intervene as a matter of urgency. If people do not live up to the opinion of the Government, they themselves assume responsibility for their opinions and act immediately; otherwise they operate in such a way as to safeguard the credibility of Banca d'Italia and CONSOB. In this matter, in fact, you can't say or not say, throw the rock and remove the hand; it's not a talk show topic. President Mattarella's words must be a warning to everyone and, above all, to the behaviour of the Government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u42	Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u43	Madam President, what I am going to do is my second speech on the stability bill. In the first I had already dealt with several shortcomings and now I will talk mainly about the measure on banks included in the bill of stability in the House. There is little to say about how and how pettyly the South has been forgotten and how, lightly, the great scraper has done nothing but distribute money in rain with the usual tips that this Parliament has known for over twenty years. I will use the very few minutes at my disposal to talk about the measure on banks, first of all to deny everything that the Premier and the rest of the majority are going to say. First of all, it is not true that the interbank fund could not be used because the European Union did not want it. The spokesman for the European Commission, Mr Cardoso, said that, among the various possibilities, one could also take the view that the State could immediately compensate subordinated bondholders using funds from its own budget - and let's not say that public money is not being used because, with the facilitation of tax discipline, two billion already leave with the transition from the four banks to the bad bank - or those of the interbank fund, which would then have to be safely returned by the banks, as is right and reasonable. But this unfortunately does not happen. The government moves in the grey context of three strands of investigation. On the one hand, the prosecutor investigates Bank Etruria because there is suspicion of issuing false invoices for at least 15 million euros to give very, but very generous advice that has not yet been justified or specified. Let's remember that the father of Minister Boschi is on the board of directors of this bank since 2011 and that in 2014 he became vice president of it. Another trend is 13 advisors and 5 mayors - we are talking about those who, with the diligence of the good father of the family, should have protected the savings of citizens and customers - afford trust that amounted to even 20 million euros each (for a total of 185 million euros to them personally granted), rather than working to protect savers. From here we immediately have 18 million losses, to which we add 90 million euros that go into stranded credits, that is those that are no longer returned. In this way a loss is recorded caused by the person who was to administer it. Finally, there is what - in my opinion - appears to be the most resounding scam, even proven. Precisely in Banca Etruria's 2013 financial statements, it is written that institutional bonds for the beauty of 125 million euros would no longer be renewed. For another EUR 161 million, what does Bank Etruria do? He picks up the ones he gave around. This brings us to the figure of EUR 285 million, for which the bank could no longer afford not to be financed. So what do you do? The bank writes it in the balance sheet. Where are the Bank of Italy and CONSOB? Here we talk about a hidden association, which includes the Government, to cheat and steal from citizens, because - I repeat - writes it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The bank clearly writes that it passes from qualified investors, able to understand well, to granularization, and that is to the sale of the securities to the poor savers, who are thus cheated. There is also the testimony of a bank manager of a small village in the Province of Perugia who declares what happened. In the Renzi government there is a minister who acts in a conflict of interests as large as the bank - as my colleague said - but the Quirinale, Palazzo Chigi, the House and the Senate. Instead of lying about the presences, the only thing that should have been done would have been to work until December 31st and immediately withdraw the decree because there is a dead man, whom I certainly do not intend to exploit here. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But I want to remember that there is a suicide who in a letter, whose words I printed in the eyes, writes that he was teased. A man of almost seventy years cannot tolerate this...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u44	Senator Lezzi, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u45	Mr Lezzi (M5S). I'm gonna finish. This is the thing that is most bitter when one hears the majority and the government talking superficially only out of pure demagogy or to enlist the crowd. You still have time to resolve this situation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u46	Senator Bellot is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u47	Madam President, Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the epilogue is also obvious for today: yet another confidence for a bill of stability that has seen the Senate and us senators debased in our role. We worked at first reading with a great sense of responsibility in the Budget Committee, working together to get to the House with the mandate to the rapporteurs, who, moreover, shared a work in a timely way to ensure that this could become a concrete result. The times were fast at first reading, but in the third and last they are not acceptable, and this is also because the House has returned a completely distorted text, profoundly modified, without the time to examine it or to be able to intervene. And then the disappointment is so much when it is discovered that amendments from the identical content here have found opposition, to be then approved and inserted in the text that came out of the House: one article, but almost 1,000 paragraphs (exactly 991)!). I am thinking of the amendment to reduce the price of fuel at the petrol pump for border areas, or the extension for Veneto for special accounting. Amendments that we had tabled were rejected during the first reading at the Senate and were, instead, approved in the House: we do not understand the motivation. For a debt of about 35.5 billion there are many small sectoral measures and microlocalistic interventions, all focusing on the possibility of growth, decidedly ambitious. We are not opposed but, indeed, we hope that this condition will be fulfilled. I wish the predictions for this country were true! We are just frightened that this cannot happen, with the negative consequences that would result. Let us think of the activation of the safeguard clauses currently frozen or of an intervention that could come from Europe. The measures are micro-sectoral and localistic, excessively approved by the House with a substantial increase in the deficit, against interventions - some undeniable - such as the abolition of TASI on the first house or in the matter of advertising for games (of course very important, given the negative results that this entails). There are, however, lack of incisive choices with targeted cuts, in the sense that a true spending review involves. Then there are no simplification and bureaucracy: perhaps almost 1000 paragraphs are too many to think of finding these terms within the bill of stability that you have hastily submitted to us. The criticism, therefore, is not only about the content but also about the method: an absolute parcelling of the interventions with microcifres - let's call them so - divided into infinite paragraphs. This branch of Parliament would have liked and knew how to give voice to the demands of our territories, collaborating in the drafting of a bill that could have been the result of a work strongly shared. Instead, all the major issues have been addressed in the House, not least that of the banks, which - in our opinion - deserves serious reflection - on which I will not dwell - and responsible work, which, in the light of the latest events, must be addressed individually, identifying responsibilities and concrete answers for the citizens who are waiting, in terms of transparency and fairness. I repeat, however, that - in our opinion - this is a subject to be dealt with individually in a very thorough way. The reduction of IRES postponed to 2017 does not find our consent, as well as other interventions. The contributions for university students had to include - in our opinion - the costs that mobility entails, especially for those living in disadvantaged areas, for orography and lack of services (I think of the service that you have given again to Trenitalia, but perhaps it must be verified because in many areas it does not work). We from the Mixed-Doing Group! We had tabled amendments at first reading so that the study is a right for everyone, even for those living in those areas. No attention has been paid to the dairy sector, which is strongly in crisis, especially in mountain areas. However, we had tabled many amendments and agendas which were adopted (maybe they could be taken up at second reading) but which we would really like to see reflected. Once and for all, let us make the commonplace for which an agenda is not denied to anyone! I really ask the government to follow concrete responses to the agendas. Finally, Mr President, while appreciating certain measures, the Mixed-Doing Group! It confirms the vote against yet another confidence that will soon be placed which, from the methodological point of view, we cannot share, but only suffer. [[Applause from Senator Munerato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u48	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, among the plethora of changes that have contributed to the embarrassing expansion of the law of stability, making it, during its parliamentary process, a sort of omnibus measure, the prime feature of all the increase in the deficit. In 2016, Italy's net debt will rise to 2.4 percent of GDP due to the measures contained in the more than one thousand accounts included in the text. At the same time, as is natural, the "weight" of this maneuver has also grown: it is about 6 billion more than previously expected. For example, the only package of amendments relating to bonuses for eighteen-year-olds, police forces and suburbs, the funds to combat cyber crime and those for law enforcement equipment is worth about 2.4 billion euros. All - and this is the most important - is financed in deficit. All this in full violation of Constitutional Law No. 1 of 2012, by which, as is known, the principle of balance of the budget has been incorporated into our Constitutional Charter, as can be deduced from Article 81, first paragraph, of the Constitution, where it is established that the State ensures the balance between the revenue and expenditure of its budget, but also from Article 97, first paragraph, real and proper pivotal rule of the entire reform, where it is expected that public administrations (...) ensure the balance of the budgets. In a situation like ours, a maneuver with a large deficit would require measures to stimulate investment. Only in this way would the deficit that is used in the law of stability make sense. Instead none of this. Another salient feature of this law of stability is that of the failure to reduce taxes: it has been flaunted for a long time but there is no trace of it. It was a necessary measure, to the point that we have tabled a number of amendments in favour of companies, families and workers, in a kind of strong and ambitious tax plan, which provided 48 billion less taxes over the next three years, with all the justifications and with all the consistency of this rule, which we have revealed before the law of stability, as the Conservative and Reformist Group. Who could be against affecting a tax burden that is sinking our economy? But doing so in deficit, as the government does, exposes to enormous risks. It is not only an economic obviousness, but it is a mathematical fact, linked to the current rules. It is also true because Brussels's agreement to over EUR 3 billion of extra deficits has been given to Italy in relation to the implementation of reforms, but they are only on paper. In fact, I would like to remind you that it was the Government itself that brought zero the impact of the so-called reforms since the beginning of the year. Simply see, in this regard, the Update Note to the DEF. Similar concerns have been expressed by the European Commission on this matter even when it was still under consideration in the Senate. We are challenged by the failure to use the flexibility granted to increase investment, as well as the lack of systematic reform of the tax system as a whole and, in particular, of land register and tax expenditure. It does not seem to me that such criticalities have been considered by the Government and, therefore, cured by the subsequent reading in the House. This leads to a rather uncertain and disturbing scenario for the fate of Italian citizens who, despite them, are thus exposed to a very probable adjustment of the accounts in 2016, through a corrective manoeuvre, in order to achieve the medium-term objective (structural layout). Added to this is the unscrupulousness used in giving cover to a series of measures in total contempt of the well-known guidelines of the Constitutional Court: the coverage of each law, in order to be consistent with the dictates of Article 81 of the Constitution, must be sufficiently secure and must be assessed ex ante, credible and reasonably argued, according to the rules of experience and accounting practice. These are certainly not, for example, the hedges provided with the proceeds of voluntary disclosure - for which approximately 2 and a half billion were optimistically estimated - and of the games, the extent of which is not previously determinable and, therefore, not subject to analytical quantification and proof of suitability, in accordance with Article 81, as first illustrated. Moreover, the devastating effects that citizens could always suffer in the event, far from remote, of the inadequacy (or insufficiency) of the proceeds that the Government hopes to recover from the return of the capital. This would entail the inevitable activation of the safeguard clauses (not eliminated, but procrastinated), resulting in an increase in VAT and excise duties and a very serious impact on the tax burden. And, like this, I could cite other examples. But the Renzi government's virtuosity did not stop at what has been said so far. In filling in the contents the budget maneuver, taken from the urgency to save itself, or who of its entourage can be involved in recent events that have concerned the now famous four banks, has considered to introduce to it the decree-law 22 November 2015, the so-called "salva banks." It contains measures for the rescue of certain credit institutions in extraordinary administration, through the use of the National Resolution Fund, provided for in the single resolution fund, following the launch of the single resolution mechanism. This adoption is justified in the preamble with the aim of "ensuring the timely establishment of bridge institutions, with a view to improving the protection of depositors and investors and in order to avoid adverse effects on financial and economic stability." But the use of this fund follows the negative opinion expressed by the EU Commission on the use of the interbank deposit protection fund which, together with other resources from the banking system and without implementing any form of bail-out, would have been first identified by the Executive, which was endorsed by the Bank of Italy, in order to face the crisis of those credit institutions. The Government, in fact, has relied on the reasons given by DG Competition in Brussels to justify its disagreement with the measure proposed by the Italian Government on the assumption that, while not using public resources, it would have infringed the State aid rules laid down in Articles 107 to 109 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in order to be subjectively imputable to the State. This remissive attitude, which resulted in the use of instruments that were not invisible to the European Union, has and will have dramatic repercussions for our savers, for the economic system and for our order. The government, in fact, has chosen to save the banks to the detriment of their private creditors, thus calling, once again, the saver citizens to pay for the defections of managements anything but healthy and prudent. A choice that, as we are witnessing these days, causes fears and fears in people, undermining, due to the contagion effect, the foundations of the banking system, with harmful repercussions for the entire economic system. A possibility so concrete as to lead, in hindsight, the Government's bad conscience to make an amendment that provides for the establishment of a guarantee fund for "subordinate" bondholders. Moreover, the choice of the Commission has led to a serious vulnus in our system, allowing the primacy of Community rules which, even if immediately effective, can operate only and insofar as they do not violate the fundamental principles enshrined in our Constitution. The Government has, in fact, allowed the fundamental principles enshrined in Article 47 of the Constitution to be violated, the protection and promotion of savings and access to popular savings, i.e. those that gave rise to the structure of our credit system; principles that would have imposed on a government worthy of that name to help and support saver citizens, since this is the real scope of the term "promotes" as used by the constituent legislator. I conclude with a reflection on the absence, in this law, of real measures and concrete measures for the South. I noticed, with a mixture of pleasure and bitterness, that some of the amendments tabled to the Senate were accepted in the House, although almost all of them had been prejudiced here. These amendments, which were and are intended to promote a real revival of the economically most fragile realities, such as those of the South, consist, inter alia, in the extension of the relief for new recruitments made in 2017. In a context in which, starting from the infamous Cassa del Mezzogiorno, everything in the South is pointed out as the natural seat of corruption, illegality and endemic malgovernment, this is but a small, very small intervention. Read yesterday's intervention by Galli della Loggia on the "Corriere della Sera" in this regard. Especially in a situation in which poor management of regional competences has unfortunately legitimized the abandonment of the South by widening the delay between the regions of the North and the South, all this is unacceptable. This country will never be able to progress economically without its essential part, that of the South, which requires non-help, but structural interventions. However, many should have been the measures for the South that are lacking in this law of stability and even such consideration denotes the sloppyness and oversimplification of this law of stability, from which we are considerably distant and which we cannot in any way share. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u50	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u51	Madam President, I think that in dealing with the debate on the Stability Act there is a prerequisite that we cannot ignore. Since the Council of Ministers launched its original maneuver, the world has changed since the Paris attacks of 13 November. After those attacks, the Europe of Maastricht has proved inadequate and defenceless in relation to the global challenge posed by terrorism. The European Union, therefore, has a duty to change in depth because the one nailed to the 3% deficit-to-GDP ratio and to strict growth without growth risks disappearing under the weight of its contradictions. There have been, and certainly not all of a sudden, priorities such as security, the defence of terror and the emergency of refugees with its increasing costs. The strengthening of security and intelligence mechanisms costs a lot and the protection of citizens' lives is worth much more than the old European rules. In short, the security pact must prevail over the stability pact, because the whole of Europe is under threat. Well, therefore, the investment made by the Government on cyber security with a budget of 150 million for 2016 and even before the recognition, also economic, of the specificity of those who guarantee the order and public security with a first, necessary increase of the salaries of the Forces of the order. In this respect, I believe it is unfair and instrumental to call these increases irrelevant, because they have been expected for many years in which Parliament had always had to surrender to the Diktats in Brussels and the Ministers for the Economy of Governments of all colors. If the law of stability were financed in deficit only for this, then it would be a sacrosanct deficit. Having said that, it must be acknowledged that this is the first expansive manoeuvre after years of rigour that has proved excessive. Much of the measures taken, together with the structural reforms that will have to be completed quickly, can help to sustain a still very weak recovery. I welcome the idea of lowering the tax burden to support consumption as well as lowering the tax burden on businesses, such as increasing cash to 3000 euros. In addition, measures aimed at making more effective use of European funding, over-amortization to 140% for the benefit of business income holders and 25 million more for equal schools are in the right direction. Unfortunately, the cut of three IRES points for 2016, which would have been done if the ok had arrived in Europe to the migrant clause, skipped. The 2016 Stability Act is worth just over 35 billion, compared with 29.6 billion initially expected and the 2016 level of net debt rises to 2.4 percent of GDP (2.2% of the original text), while for the following years it confirms, for the time being, the planned path of public finance objectives. Other changes in expenditure: 600 million per annum for the tax credit for companies in the Mezzogiorno, 330 million more for the pension rules, 146 of which for the raising of the no tax area to 8,000 euros. Among the most important measures, and in this positive sense, the abolition of TASI on the first house is worth 3.7 billion euros. As far as measures for businesses are concerned, there are 530 million for financing the cutting of the IMU on fixed machinery and about 570 million for measures for agriculture. That after years and years of slender budgets, one should focus on an expansive maneuver, it was more than justified. However, provided we do not exceed, and the rain of microfinance contained in this maneuver makes us say that in some ways we have returned to the uses and consumption of the past, to the famous assaults on the diligence that characterized the financial laws of the first Republic. In addition, the rules of bank rescue already contained in the Decree of 22 November have been transferred to the "Stability Act." The Fund has been set up to meet those who subscribe to subordinated bonds, those 100 million which will only partially compensate those who have lost much more. As far as the final budget is concerned, the European Commission will be the last to speak. In the meantime, in order to cope with the mass of new paragraphs and new expenses added by the House, the Government has created a small "tresort" in the folds of the budget: about 1.2 billion that should derive from the higher revenues of voluntary disclosure, the tax on the return of capital from Switzerland. Money set aside to meet future needs. We hope that it will be enough to contain the damage and to sustain the Italian economy which sees a recovery still too uncertain. We cannot hide the risks, hopefully calculated, of this manoeuvre, based on yet another postponement of the budget balance, which not only makes us more vulnerable, but also means shifting the burden of adjustment to future generations. However, the real weakness of this law of stability is the chapter of the spending review. At the time of the Letta government, the Commissioner for spending Cottarelli had made a very ambitious estimate, evaluating the expenditure to be cut into 18 billion euros. Subsequently, with the April Document of Economy and Finance (DEF) the billions to be cut became 10 and, in the end, the dowry of the spending review has been further reduced to only 6 billion euros and the cuts to the Ministries and the participants have become almost all dust to put under the carpet. However, when public expenditure exceeds 50% of gross domestic product, as in Italy, there is no longer a simple accounting problem, but an anomaly that hides itself in the very functioning of the institutions and that is where it should be resolved. In the meantime, local authorities could have been prevented from recapitalising their chronically lost companies, thus obtaining many billions of savings to be transferred in large cuts to labour and business taxes. In this law of stability a cut from 10,000 to 1,000 participating companies is expected, but for now the cuts have always remained dead letter. Therefore, the law of stability, which goes in the right direction, with the reduction of taxes on the house, remains another missed opportunity. [[Applause from the AL-A Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u52	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this law of stability, valid for 2016, which you are about to approve, with the twenty-fourth confidence that the Government has asked the Senate since its entry into office, will be a disaster for our country. Since 2011, our country has been suffering bad choices by three unelected, illegitimate governments that had to restore public finances and that are leading the country to disaster. The various measures you have approved have only made the situation worse, have led to the closure of companies, have led to higher unemployment. You have shifted the balance of the budget to 2018 with continuous postponements, the debt-to-GDP ratio is constantly deteriorating and the public debt, in October, has reached 2,211 billion euros, with an increase of more than 300 billion euros (in October 2011 it was in fact 1,909 billion euros). The large parliamentary majority you have could be used to make more just choices, and it is instead the tool to exercise arrogance and arrogance, to continually violate the Constitution, laws and regulations and determine the results that are before everyone's eyes. The President of the Republic, yesterday, could not help but call everyone to respect the rules, saying that: There is a strong need for a reordering and recovery of rationality in the legislative process. Reforms are not only about constitutional organisation, but also about the misuse of instruments and procedures. Returning to the merits of the measure, if the interest rate on the market had not been reduced to zero, if the price of oil had not collapsed, which caused the energy bill to halve, with 10 billion euros of savings only in the last year, if there were no parity between the euro and the dollar, I would like to know what the growth of GDP and the parameters of unemployment would have been. The deep uncertainty, which slows down the world economy recommends much more financial manoeuvre, characterized by greater prudence and a sense of responsibility and not only "marchettes." The slowdowns in the world economy have already blocked the modest signs of recovery that had occurred in the last period. Under these conditions, proposing a law of stability with an increase in the deficit of 14.6 billion euros was a real madness. Not content with this, ladies and gentlemen, you have done worse in the House of Members by approving a number of amending proposals, which amount to more than EUR 3 billion, resulting in a budget deficit of EUR 18 billion and net debt of 2.4% of GDP. You will never achieve a balanced budget. It is now clear: you are aiming for the failure of Italy. Even if we wanted to make a financial manoeuvre in deficit, at least resources had to be used to increase investment and revive the economy. In this law of stability there is no sign of investment, even for those areas that are in dramatic economic conditions. This is not a law of stability, but a tip law, made exclusively to gather consensus in the local elections next spring and be ready, as soon as the opportunity arises, to go to early political elections, because the collapse of the consensus you are the subject of, colleagues, is clear to everyone. Otherwise, what does it have to do with the law of stability all the micro-interventions that you have inserted, all the "marchettes," the prebende, the clientele that you have satisfied: the extension of the contracts to the 7,000 precarious Sicilian Municipalities failed, the 20 million euros for the usual Calabrian forest, the 500 euros to the eighteen-year-olds, the 100 million euros of the 2 per thousand to the cultural associations, the 3 million euros for bands, choirs and music, the 9 million euros to Campione d'Italia, in favor of the local gaming house, that has lost105 million euros in 10 years? Once the municipalities created public works with the gaming proceeds of Campione d'Italia. Today, however, citizens are forced to pay to support the gambling house. But is it really necessary to feed gambling? Is it ethical and correct or would it be better to allocate these resources to families in difficulty, help companies in difficulty and support investment? It would take an hour to illustrate the whole series of scandalous speeches, but let us not do so even if we do not further inspect the citizens who are in a great deal of trouble and perhaps are listening to us right now. They don't want to know. You reduce incentives to support employment to 40%, while the unemployment situation is becoming increasingly tragic. I want to use the time that remains available to me to emphasize the deplorable behavior maintained towards the savers of Banca Marche, Banca Etruria, CariChieti and CariFerrara. It is not acceptable to try to avoid the debate here in this House on this issue. It was not correct to include an amendment in this law and to terminate Decree-Law No 183 of 2015 which you adopted only a few days ago. Now do not try to avoid the Commission of Inquiry, as some newspapers report this morning. I recall what President Mattarella said yesterday: it is necessary to protect and enhance savings, a characteristic element of our economy. Citizens have a right to know what happened to their savings. All responsibilities of Banca d'Italia and the management, as well as of the Government and its members, must be identified. Why was Banca Marche, who could solve her own problems on her own? Why has a bank that had better capitalization parameters than others that still continue to operate failed? Who was to check what he checked? What were the results of two and a half years of the commissioning of Banca Marche? Who established a devaluation of stranded loans by 83 percent? Who should be enriched by this operation? Savers, shareholders and subordinated bondholders, as provided for in Article 671 of the Code of Civil Procedure, must take preventive action to seize stranded claims remaining in the possession of the bad bank. Someone has to pay here. Someone's gonna have to resign. Someone's gonna have to go to jail. We will fight for full light to be shed on what has happened and for savers to be fully compensated for what has been stolen from them. The EUR 100 million you have planned is completely insufficient, and 100% compensation is needed. Don't try to unscramble on this: we will force you day by day. It will not be enough for you to reassure, interview or buy journalists. With greetings to all for the Christmas holidays, I express the hope that next year you will be able to completely change your approach to the problems of our country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u54	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u55	Madam President, the news that during the course of this law of stability in the House the measure was swelling and rising in terms of the number of paragraphs and also of the financial envelope that this same multiplication of the norms moved, had basically reopened a hope. We hoped that in the field of knowledge he had finally put his hand to the wallet, after with various interventions we had emphasized that, as it had reached the Senate, this law of stability was if not depressing, absolutely limiting in this field. You had kindled this hope: "Do you want to see that it is the good time that with this increase in resources you finally put hand to an organic intervention in school, university and research?" This hope was, among other things, reinforced by the fact that on November 30, shortly after the law had been fired by the Senate and was beginning its process in the House, the MIUR had issued an act of direction containing the political priorities of that Ministry. It is interesting to read these political priorities in the light of the debate that followed the law of stability in the House. For example, the political priority 13 - I hope not in the order of importance, but only in the organization of the issues - was that of human capital. In this document of the MIUR we read: "to invest in the replacement processes of the teaching class, to ensure agile access to the academic career and the effective coverage of the turn over". Do you want to see that it is the good time that the House has finally gone from a shiny extraordinary plan of assumption and from the confirmation substantially of the limits of the turn over to a more decisive intervention and to the unblocking of the turn over itself? However, once again we register how the government itself in a schizophrenic way denies the same priorities that are given in its official documents. Well, none of this has been done in the House. The extraordinary recruitment plan has remained shrunk: 1,000 new recruitments in the face of a loss of about 5,000 researchers and university professors per year (since 2011, the year in which the Gelmini reform began to produce its own effects), are absolutely insufficient to guarantee that human capital that is being discussed in this act of direction. Not to mention the school sector, where the entry into the role of a large number of teachers clashes with the impossibility of their use by schools, since the recruitment was made without reflecting any criteria of programming of these teachers (the schools themselves in many cases do not know what to do with them, of these teachers). The political priority number 17, which concerns the national research programme, the country's strategic vision document, which together with the document of economics and finance should decline the research policy of this country, is always stated in this act of MIUR. Well, here we are even ironic. The national research programme refers to the 7th anniversary 2014-2017, was announced in magnanimity in January 2014 by the then minister Carrozza, but has never been seen again: the latest announcement of the current Minister of Education dates back to October 14 of this year, in which his official presentation was given for imminent. But once again this document is on the sidelines of the strategic programming documents. All this, Madam President, is reflected in the structure of the law of stability: a series of micro-interventions in the now established tradition of the assault on diligence that also affects the knowledge sector. It is justified in the absence of strategic programming documents also interventions of the kind present in the decree-law introducing urgent measures for interventions in the territory: for example, 80 million are given to the Italian Institute of Technology, a foundation of private law for the creation of a pole of excellence of research and innovation. This intervention - I remind everyone - is even comparable to the one in the law of stability for all universities and research institutions. Once again we are witnessing an assault on the diligence that responds to shortsighted logics, which exclude the major universities and research institutions in this country in the face of interventions of dubious effectiveness. In fact, it is clear that micro-interventions are doubtful effectiveness. Let us think, for example, of the four million of the national aerospace research programme (Prora), which is also financed from a reduction in the ordinary operating fund of public research bodies which should do research on that aerospace programme. Basically you navigate on sight. We do not know where to go and I find myself in the embarrassing situation of not being able to criticize those micro-interventions in a situation where universities and institutions have seen their funding reduced. Similarly, we cannot welcome the 15 million data now from the National Institute of Nuclear Physics or other small research organizations in such a serious situation. I find myself in the embarrassing situation where, on the one hand, we need to be positive and, on the other, criticize for the lack of strategic planning. All measures to strengthen centralized acquisitions of the goods and services of universities and institutions remain in the law of stability, which will result in a cut of EUR 20 million to the University's operational fund and the Public Research Authority's ordinary fund. So all the provisions we had at first reading remain. No further increase in the fields of university and public research institutions has resulted from the increase in the provisions and funding of the Stability Act. That is why our judgment on this law remains strongly negative. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u56	Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u57	Madam President, over 20 years a people of savers and workers have seen their country flooded by a myriad of small casinos. It was not only slot machines and videolottery, but also scratch cards, sports betting, online gambling, which have invaded the collective imagination and are at the top of the preferences of young and underage. It is a flood that comes under the house, inside the house, in the computers and, even, in the mobile phones used even by the little ones. In 2014 there were already more than 30 applications to gamble on mobile phones aimed at children. They invented a new need that did not exist before, exploiting the crisis and the hammering advertising. They have changed the thinking of an entire generation, which a minister had the courage to define as "bamboccioni" and which, in reality, is the sacrificial victim of a bad state education, a biscuit state. They told us it was to avoid illegal gambling. But they don't believe it anymore either: advertising beats attract new customers, the legal market loyalty them and then move on to the illegal market, which in recent years has increased at the same time. This government is in fact, willing or unwilling, a mafia business hunter, who infiltrates heavily even in the legal chain and recycles huge occult capital. It is a Bible disaster, the eleventh plague. For this reason we have asked to abolish immediately and totally the advertising of the hazard: can no longer be tolerated a reclamation of a business that causes suffering to the families, economic poverty and cultural backwardness, that drugs the budget and makes it dependent on dirty money, that makes the press dependent on these adverts (a round of 200 million per year), that also drugs politics with direct or indirect funding through the foundations or with sponsorships of events. The words are zero: in fact the Government has covered up the RAI service contract, which freed at least the public service and the fiscal delegation showed only impalpable and facade bans. But after intense and prolonged pressure in the Senate and the House, after an avalanche of e-mails sent by anti-gambling associations and thousands of citizens, it seemed that time was ripe. Then it happened that nothing is free, even when the health and future of a generation is at stake, the Government is able to do the right thing to the full. There are interests to be protected: those of the Treasury and of the multinationals. They wanted something in return: the Santini amendment came out, which was going to limit the powers of the mayors and Regions no slots. We denounced him to the point that he was withdrawn and disowned by the Democratic Party itself. That's how the senate was silenced at first reading. Everything returned to the House, where the compromise came to light. First the propaganda sentence: ban from 7 am to 10 pm. But then the exceptions: the ban applies only in general broadcasts. What are they? Juridically, it doesn't mean anything. Specialist media will then be excluded. What are they? It is the Government itself that admits ambiguity. It will be the Executive, with a decree, that determines who comes in and who doesn't, in four months, just the deadline within which the State-Regions Conference could decide to limit the powers of local administrators, which bothers lobbyists so much. The message, Madam President, is all too clear: if the State-Regions Conference does not muzzle those who protect citizens, the Government will be able to reduce the ban on advertising by granting exemptions to the right and to the left. And, since the award of new licences will soon expire, it will have the opportunity to add urgency and necessity so that it can issue a decree-law to give investment certainty to the lords. Does that surprise you? It's happened before. I shall conclude, Madam President. What changes for our boys? The bombing before, during and after football matches can continue, although sports betting is already at the top of their list of preferences, as at the top of the list is gambling on the Internet; even here, no prohibition and no restraint from the government. Where, then, are men of good will? All I see is the butterman, the coachman who loaded unsuspecting boys to take them to the country of the bullocks. The responsibility is yours. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u58	He's enlisted to speak Senator Boccardi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a famous maxim of Albert Einstein, much abused in recent years, identifies the crisis as a source of opportunity, because - I quote - it is in the crisis that inventiveness arises. And again: The only danger of the crisis is the tragedy that can be achieved by not wanting to fight to overcome it. Every struggle, however, involves the ingredient of courage. And this law of stability, if it wants to fight the crisis, needs courage. I mention the crisis because, contrary to certain optimistic vulgate, in Italy unfortunately - alas - it is still a reality. President Renzi must surely be recognized as an ability to draw broad ambitions for the future, and that is no small thing. However, after weeks of open and frank discussion in the Commission, in the context of which Forza Italia spokesperson for the interests of citizens and businesses and the undersigned intended to represent in particular the instances that come from the South of the country, whose innumerable resources and potential are often ignored or mortified, I regret to have to note that the initial good intentions have unfortunately not been followed concrete facts. To a general analysis the law of stability that we find ourselves examining, in all honesty, seems to lack a perspective and strategic vision of the country and a long-term planning, that alone can promote that restart so much announced, but never really engaged. We intervene with rain funds and interventions of which we struggle to understand the ratio, without trying to solve concretely and effectively and definitively the nodes that hold back the development of our economy and that prevent a real recovery, rather favoring the encumberment of those phenomena that represent a scourge for the lives of the individual and the welfare of the community and of the enterprises: from unemployment to the rising poverty, from the decrease of consumption to the yoke of a tax system that crushes especially the weakest, from the increasing gap between North and South of the country to the breakdown of the social fabric, increasingly eroded by the loss of certain points of reference. Not to mention the effects that the continuation of this condition of suffering paralysis causes in the relationship between citizens and institutions, with a decrease of confidence in the political class - which we all have the honour to represent - which does not seem to find a solution. Illustrated President, ladies and gentlemen, this honour calls us with a pressing voice to our burdens, to the duty of responsibility, not only to those who elected us (delegating to us, Members of Parliament, the choices that concern the present and the future of the country), but to all Italians who ask for work, simplification, recognition of merit, no real privilege but real opportunities for young people and attention to marginality and the peripheries, so dear to Pope Francis. The Italians call for the protection of basic rights, such as health rights, and the refreshment of small and great injustices, which mortify energy and undermine social cohesion. It is therefore for this sense of responsibility that I am here to express deep dissatisfaction with the measure that we are preparing to vote on. 12.05 a.m. (Follow BOCCARDS). On the substance of the measures under consideration, because of the shortness of my speech here, I will be speaking in relation to the issues covered by my amending proposals, which concern the problems of the South, with particular regard to labour, business and young people. As is well known, the South of Italy is rich in historical, artistic and architectural beauties, environmental, landscape, cultural and human resources, food and wine and business excellences, small and large companies that structure the economic fabric of the South, give work to thousands of people, perpetuate the know-how of that tradition that the whole world envies us, exporting Made in Italy and giving lustre to our country. With regard to the companies of the South and the work, I acknowledge to the Government that I have transposed the proposal concerning the introduction of a tax credit on the investments of the companies of the South (the argument I have addressed, being the first signatory of a proposal to this effect here in the Senate) and to have extended the decontribution to the permanent hirings carried out in 2017, which will allow many enterprises to continue or begin to invest. However, the limits imposed on these facilities, the diversification of them according to the size of the company, the postponement to 2017 of the cut of the IRES, the introduction of a preventive screening of the EU and the general installation of the measures that invest the companies of the South, which turns out to be seriously insufficient, allow for the failure to achieve the intended growth targets, also with regard to the levels of employment. The Commission has rejected many of the proposals of Forza Italia that would give real oxygen to companies, such as 100% decontribution for new recruits and the establishment of an ad hoc fund for infrastructure. Then there is the dramatic southern question, that is, the condition of young people in the South, who are the largest, but absolutely unexpressed, among the resources of the Mezzogiorno. On this point too, we can only express disappointment at the measures proposed by the Government. It is also regrettable to have to note that in the so-called cultural bonus, which allocates 500 euros to all young people, without distinction, that in 2016 will turn eighteen, there is no valorization of the merit, nor an intervention in favour of the children of the less fortunate classes or geographical areas. An opportunity has thus been lost from the educational potential for young people and to reduce inequalities. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, starting to conclude, I note that the economic crisis is not an already written destiny, but the result of wrong or otherwise inappropriate political choices. If our country grows by 0.8 per cent, while on average in the Eurozone by 1.6% and in the European Union by 1.9 per cent, it means that some mistakes have been made and therefore on the part of the government it would not hurt a greater humility and awareness of its limits. However, we have the opportunity to turn towards paths and prospects of real growth, which cannot but involve Puglia and the whole of the South, which must never be considered a ballast again, but the flywheel of Italy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u60	Mr President, first of all, there is the obligation to point out that the time allowed for the examination of the text dismissed by the House of Deputies (which was delivered to us as a draft at 9.30 a.m. on Monday 21 December) has been squeezed to the extreme, thus not allowing an adequate examination of the numerous amendments introduced by the House for the consequent amending activity. The deadline for tabling amendments was set at 12 noon in the budget committee and 4 p.m. in this House on Monday 21. I remember that the text of the bill of stability which began its examination in this branch of Parliament consisted of just 52 articles; it then arrived at the Chamber of Deputies, transformed by the maxi amendment of the Government into a single article that had 556 paragraphs; now it returns to the Senate with 991 paragraphs. This is a maneuver that, during the first reading, surprised us for its synthesis and ease of reading, although it already presented numerous problems in terms of coverage and showed measures characterized by a certain short-sightedness of views, especially with regard to the South of the country, on which I will return later. Now, on the other hand, there is a heavy, hypertrophic and difficult to read text in this House. The stage of examination in the Senate has, to some extent, been marked by a positive dialogue between majority and opposition, and we must acknowledge this thanks to the work carried out in the Budget Committee by the two rapporteurs. As far as we are concerned, at first reading we tried to limit our proposals for amendments to the maximum, presenting a few carefully thought-out and useful measures for the whole country. Many of the amendments put forward by the Conservatives and Reformists Group have been rejected, others recovered in extremis by the reporters, others approved in the Senate Assembly, but many more made own by the Government in the House. One of them is the amending proposal, approved in the Senate, which excludes from industry studies investments for the purchase of capital goods made from 15 October 2015 to 31 December 2015, for which a super depreciation is expected. Without this amendment, we could have expected a depreciation of up to 200 percent, but the measure would have remained unenforceable precisely because it would have affected industry studies, making them inappropriate. At the third reading - a fourth one would genuinely be needed to rewrite the draft law which, as it is, is done in deficit - my Group's senators have tabled very few amendments, among which are particularly important those relating to the lowering of IRES for companies as early as January 2016, with a rate of 24.5%, which falls to 23% in 2017. In this regard, we point out that the Senate technicians themselves have expressed doubts about the government's estimates of the measures included by the Executive on the IRES surcharge for banks since 2017. I would also like to mention the two percentage points reduction of IRAP in 2016-2017; the reduction of VAT rates from 22 to 20%, the reduction of IRPEF by 0.4 points in 2016 and by an additional 0.3 percentage points in 2017; the elimination of the additional safeguard clauses introduced in the text under consideration, which provide for the increase, from 1 May 2016, of the excise duties referred to in the European Council Directive of 16 December 2008, to an extent that ensures the 2 billion expected by voluntary disclosure. All measures capable of accelerating the recovery, the achievement of which is possible with resources identified through a real rationalization and revision of unproductive public expenditure. We strongly reiterate the need for a reduction in taxes of EUR 48 billion in the next three years and an equal reduction in unproductive state spending. So why do we leave that safeguard clause that hangs like the sword of Damocles on the heads of motorists and companies in the sector? Let us hope that it will not be activated because, if so, it would be a nice gift that the Government will give to all workers on the occasion - alas - of the feast of May 1. It is always worth remembering in terms of safeguard clauses that this bill of stability although fortunately sterilizes more than 46 billion euros of increases between excise duty and VAT, introduced by this Government with the previous laws of stability, does so however in deficit. I said "luckily" because, although the price of oil in these days has reached the historic minimum of $36.17 per barrel, consumers have not noticed at all. Indeed, the weight of fuel taxes remains very high in Italy. We said that this bill of stability is done in deficit: well over 56 billion in the three-year period 2016-2018, that is we will spend money that we do not have, betting on the recovery of the economy. A recovery we hope for, as well as our children wish, but if not, they could find a huge debt on their shoulders. Let's go south. Aid for the Mezzogiorno for some 600 million can be considered positive, but more could be done. We appreciate the Government's efforts to identify the measures to be implemented, which virtually copied almost all the amendments tabled by the Conservative and Reformist Group. On the contrary, on the decontribution to new recruitment, the government did not have the strength to dare, especially in the South, where work is needed, believing that 40% could be enough. A reminder is necessary: the government could reflect more on the establishment of the special economic zones proposed by our Group, than if established, they would have constituted an important economic and employment flywheel. In addition, again in the light of the importance of the senate's technicians, it should be noted that, given that the extraordinary competition procedures for the recruitment of staff in hospitals are intended to ensure continuity in the provision of health services, while respecting the European Union's provisions on the articulation of working time, it would be useful to clarify the extension of these recruitment procedures to administrative staff who, in fact, have not been involved in the new European timetables, and therefore will not have to reduce their working hours. Moreover, we cannot fail to recall how with the so-called female option, the number of workers who, in the period between January 2016 and January 2017, could benefit from this experimental scheme is estimated at: 17,500 private employees, 7,500 self-employed workers, 7,800 public employees. This means that, in order to allow a few thousands of women to go into quiescence before the age of sixty (even if they submit the calculation of the benefit entirely to the contributory calculation) the treatment of millions of pensioners (those who receive a cheque above three times the minimum) will be penalized, which will have, in the biennium 2017-2018, a less convenient re-evaluation system. We don't say that, but Professor Giuliano Cazzola writes, one of the highest and most appreciated experts in occupational welfare and policies. Also at work, the Government intended to extend some income support measures and in particular expressly extended the DIS-COLL, the measure replacing the old one-off, which ceased to exist on 1 January 2015. I come back to what I mentioned earlier as the absence of the South, namely the abandonment of the concept of the South, which, as we can remind this House, is of an ideological and political nature, rather than of a cultural nature. This abandonment of the South is not only the fault of the Renzi Government, having begun from the eighties: quickly, everything that concerned the South of Italy, beginning first of all from its political class, has acquired a taste of fraud, of evil. We must remember - and this is what has been forgotten in this financial manoeuvre - that the economic gap between Lombardy and Calabria is greater than that between Germany and Greece and is at risk of poverty in the South one in three, while in the North this ratio is one in ten. [[Recalls of the President]] I shall begin with the conclusion, Mr President. The unemployment rate in the South is 20% and is twice the national average; the youth rate is 30%; 18% of families in the South have difficulties in water supply. Well, then, how can we be surprised if in Renzi's "narration" the South is not there? Without the South - adds yesterday, on the Corriere del Mezzogiorno, in a detailed fund, the scholar Ernesto Galli of the Loggia - it is difficult that there can be a "narration" of Italy, the more a project for its future. Without the South in fact there is not even Italy, there is another thing, another Country. Therefore, if it is proposed to govern Italy for ten years, as our President of the Council seems to want to do, then it is impossible to do it only from Florence (at most with a propaggine in Milan and surroundings). Just as it is impossible to do so by repeating and tweeting bursts of exhortations, as we roll up the sleeves, the turn is near, we are broken down and similar. Something more is needed: something that looks further and higher (...). That connects the past with the future, the few with the many, who has the most with those who have the least, the North with the South, that is. [[Applause from the CoR Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u61	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u62	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, the effects of the economic policies of recent years are before everyone's eyes. Italy has experienced a serious decline, both in absolute terms and in relation to other European countries. Industrial production has decreased with two-zero figures; social protection has decreased, labour incomes have decreased, the percentage of GDP devoted to research has decreased, university students have decreased. Only the unemployed and those who work precariously or on a fixed-term basis have increased. On the other hand, the tax levy has increased to an unsustainable level in recent years. The country lives in a condition of grave distrust, which sometimes expresses itself in the expectation of a demiurge capable of solving all problems with a magic wand stroke, more often in a blind grudge that comes down against everything and against everyone: Parliament, politicians, parties, the State, even the Carabinieri and the Catholic Church. This is not, as the results of the recent French or Spanish elections show, a situation that is only Italian. This concern is widespread throughout Europe and is the daughter of economic policies wanted by Brussels and accepted in Rome on a supine basis. Let's just think about the bail-in. Over the last two decades - and the trend has increased further since the 2007 crisis - public spending has been demonised, the welfare has been privatised - when it has not been destroyed - and the criterion of competition has been introduced in all areas of human life. In Italy, these policies have had worse effects than elsewhere, as the budgetary constraints imposed by European regulations and the rigidity of the single currency have proved to be incompatible with a production system based on small and medium-sized enterprises. In the absence of anti-cyclical economic policies or the weapon of competitive devaluation, attempts were made to unload productivity differentials on labour costs and taxation, i.e., to put it simply, on workers' direct and indirect incomes and on their rights. Thus we have entered a dead end where the productive system is based on the progressive impoverishment of those who carry it forward, with their work. To make the situation even more serious, the problem of public debt was not dealt with within the political economy, but in moralistic terms, as if debt was a theological fault and not the result of certain historical circumstances. All the more hypocritically because the entire Western economy is founded on debt and no one can legitimately rise to the pulpit to preach, less than the representatives of a people who on two occasions, in the last century, caused tremendous damage and never paid back to the rest of Europe, for being irresponsibly thrown by its ruling classes first into the arms of Prussian militarism, then into those of the criminal gang led by Hitler. If the picture I have drawn so far is correct (and only those blinded by neoliberal ideology can deny that it is) it would have been expected from this economic maneuver a change of course compared to the past. No, you don't. We continue unceasingly on the wretched road that has led us to the point where we are. Of course, the government claims the expansionary character of some of its measures, but things are very different. Some of them have a particularly demagogic nature and stand in the line inaugurated with the 80 euros bestowed on the poor before the European vote, continued with the 500 euros for the purchase of teaching materials granted to teachers, and now further improved with the 500 euros destined for eighteen: these are initiatives themselves also right, but they have the obvious aim of obtaining or maintaining some credibility among variously mistreated categories and that are now trying to collect with small gifts. Other measures are totally wrong and lead to a funny redistribution to inverted parts, from the poor to the rich. I am referring, in particular, to the abolition of taxes on the first house, which leads to the equivalent of those who bought the house with the savings of a life with those who can have high incomes and houses owns dozens of them. For the rest, we are witnessing, in fact, the continuation of the austerity policies imposed by the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund. In a single field investments of some consistency are announced: that of defence. The ruling classes are willing to loosen the strings of the stock exchange only to promote a security culture and finance participation in wars around the world. No! This is not the fate that Italy and Europe deserve. A radical change is needed. Finance school and university. Promoting culture and artistic heritage. Aim for research. Invest not in the great useless, invasive and perennial works of corruption, but in many small useful works: the building of the people, the safety of schools and other public buildings, the environmental reclamations, the redevelopment of the abandoned industrial areas, the safety of river courses and landslides, the construction of bike paths and waterways. Above all, it is necessary to focus on the ecological conversion of productive activities. It is only in this area that we can imagine lasting growth. If properly valued, craftsmanship, non-invasive tourism, research and use of alternative energies, organic farming could be the engines of a renewed development. On all this the law of stability is almost completely silent. What I have stated could be hoped for is a book of illusions. But all we need is the will to achieve it and, probably, to break up with Europe, as it has been conceived so far, and with its military projection represented by NATO. These are objectives that appear at this very distant moment, but their achievement represents - I fear - the only hope of giving our children a dignified and peaceful future. [[Applause from Senator Casaletto.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u63	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u64	Mr President, for us the bill of stability of the President of the Council of Renzi, as we have already noticed in his passage to the Senate and then to the House, and as we see things going on here in the Senate today, seems to have shown the real face of this Government. It is a maneuver which responds, according to our system of evaluating matters, exclusively to the wishes of the President of the Council and his majority. Manovra that has no prospect of relaunching the country and that unfortunately will leave a very salty account, destined to burden Italy of the future with a total remission to our young people. What is happening is nothing more than a copy and paste of what we lived a year and a half ago, when the government (we all remember it), with the 80 euro bonus, paid for the election campaign for the 2014 European elections at the expense of the state. And the state paid for it. On this occasion too, the behaviour of the Commission is unfortunately confirmed: the attempt is the same, and the administrative authorities on the horizon unfortunately represent a test for this government not elected by the people. The international judgment on the maneuver is irrefutable, objective and certainly, from those who have done it, disinterested: the law of stability of the Government is a mess in deficit that risks to turn - as we say not only - from here soon, into an infringement procedure against our country. The Court of Auditors says that the Government uses the most flexible spaces available by explicitly reducing the margins of protection of public accounts and leaves unresolved issues in the background" (the famous safeguard clauses, which have no longer been mentioned but which will eventually arrive between head and neck, public contracts and pensions) "and important issues such as a definitive reorganization of the system of financing the territorial self-governments". Big mess there, too. As Senator Divine of the Northern League Group has pointed out several times in his speeches, the Government clearly tends to ignore them all the time. For example, as the European Union has also found, the recovery launched in 2015 is strengthened in 2016, as you always tell us. But this happens only thanks to the low cost of oil, thanks to an individually favorable conjuncture that, as we know, will not last forever. So let's prepare ourselves for events that will probably question what you see as the light at the end of the tunnel. I have never seen a bill of stability with this imprint, in which the Minister of Economy communicates with the press rather than coming to Parliament to report on the story of the "save banks" with issues, such as the one in the South that actually made everyone angry a little bit, and like the clamorous issue of the Forces of Order. Then we talk about all the proposals put forward by the opposition, such as the introduction of the family quotient, to bring the minimum pensions to 800 euros, to really modify the Fornero law, to implement the funds to be allocated to the security sector and to strengthen the no tax area for all and not only for pensioners, who have therefore found the road blocked by the government. And here we can only thank him for the little attention. The 80 euro bonus to the Forces of Order is nothing more than the will of the Government, once again, to take out the intermediate bodies and not arrive at the renewal of the contract, which the Constitutional Court had indicated as an element of primary importance. The same bonus of 500 euros to young people does not go in the direction of promoting real employment opportunities for young people, does not value the merit and does not guarantee the most deserving. Perhaps it would have been better to invest these resources in measures in favour of young people, which would have allowed them, however, to start a business or to complete their studies, helping those who do not have the possibility, or on other issues, more binding and important. It is therefore a public finance maneuver that could and should have had a huge potential, which at first foreshadowed decisive changes in pace and sharp reversals of trend, but which in practice was absolutely lacking and fragmented. The maneuver should have had a huge impact on problems, which have been dangerously messed up in recent years. Intervention on the rules for the seventh safeguard of exodus, for example, is a non-final solution, which still leaves out tens, hundreds, thousands of workers. It's another huge mess, which doesn't seem to be solved. There has been talk many times, in various ways, in a large number of tables - worse than the IKEA! - the tax burden. The Government has repeatedly stated that it wants to achieve, with the present public finance maneuver, a relief of the fiscal pressure, which has now largely exceeded the threshold of tolerability: the Court of Auditors, in 2014, declared it at around 43.5%. The economic impact assessments of this Stability Act for 2016 tell us that the measures will not produce significant effects in this respect, as this pressure is set to stand at around 43%, until 2018. I therefore ask myself, Mr President, and I ask everyone, whether a 0.5% increase can be considered, for a period of two or three years, as a result worthy of attention. The question of so-called bank-saving measures is a very serious one. For small savers there have been very heavy economic and material damage and someone has also taken his life. It was a very dangerous and hard affair. What disturbs and weighs on the responsibility of the national and European institutions is a framework of confusion, of insufficient transparency, in a context of ineffective supervision: they are all elements that have debunked one of the few certainties that concerned the Italian economy, that is the ever-declared solidity of the banking system. Once again, however, as was the case with the blocking of the pension revaluation index, declared unconstitutional by the Council, the Government proposes a partial refund, which is unacceptable and above all incomprehensible. So, Mr President, let's start with a simple consideration: we are faced with a maneuver launched entirely in deficit, which is based on inconsiderately optimistic economic forecasts, already disavowed by the current economic data and completely overturned by future forecasts. A figure on all: the Italian public debt, which has always been the real scare of the Italian economy, continues to rise and in October has increased by about 19 billion euros, reaching the figure of 2.211.8 billion euros of debt. For the government to trace the mistakes of the past it is easy to intuit it: this Executive has at heart only its own survival, not the real interests and needs of the Italians and puts measures in series, aimed at the mere acquisition of electoral consent, as already done with the sadly famous IRPEF bonus of 80 euros last year, extended in this bill also to the Forces of order or, again, with the bonus culture for the eighteen, of which we have discussed previously. They are all named bonuses, which will in fact turn into deductions in the near future. Let us take the case of the banche-save decree, which we have already talked about. Minister Padoan initially announced a rule that had humanitarian measures to address cases such as the one affecting the 12,500 customers holding subordinated bonds of the banks in question. This is a substantial recognition of the responsibility of the Government, which has decided to follow the path of the national resolution fund rather than that of the interbank deposit protection fund, and of those who were to supervise it. All the more so since the government has returned to the interbank fund to finance the solidarity fund of 100 million euros, established for the refreshment of subordinated bondholders of failed banks: 100 million that, among other things, are totally insufficient. This is also true of the provisions contained in the safety package. The Government, as mentioned, has provided for the staff of the Forces of Order, the Armed Forces and the Fire Department a bonus of 80 euros, bonus therefore not structural, that does not even apply to the calculation of the pension, a mere palliative that dodges what should really be put into practice. [[Recalls of the President]] Mr President, from the sound of your bell, I assume I have to finish. I simply say that this bill of stability in our eyes is certainly not something positive. There is no credible push for employment or the shadow of an industrial plan. There is no measure for tourism, little or nothing for craftsmanship while there is an energy plan without foresight. The only thing that was done was the renewal of the trade blockade with Russia that only a few traders and industrialists know that economic damage can produce to this country. Clearly for us this maneuver is imprudent, absolutely deceptive, in some ways also inconsistent and risky with regard to the accounts of the State, personalistic with regard to the footprint that it had and absolutely out of reality. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u65	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not delay in making a detailed criticism or consideration of a positive sign on the various aspects of this vademecum before me. I believe that in a slender and modern state the plethoricity of the laws should not exist and the tome that contains this maneuver, which consists of a few hundred pages, says a lot about the state of the art regarding the need to modernize this state. If we need a volume of the Treccani encyclopedia to make some corrective and some improvement, this means that we are still in the marsh of the bureaucratic state and the state maximum and far from that construction - which the President of the Council recalls in all his speeches - of a modern and reformed state. I am not the judge of the President-in-Office of the Council and I am perhaps the least praised, but I believe that in his speech to the Leopolda he photographed, with the expression that I will shortly report, his real intentions that can only be shared. He said that in Italy the season of envy must end in order to give way to the season of admiration, i.e. that the method and merit must be the constituent elements of the new state that must be realized. I do not know what method this law of stability is inspired by, except that it is sufficiently quick to make Parliament's intervention plentiful, and on what grounds the fact that to amend some laws and to introduce five, six or seven innovative elements must be faced with a tome of this dimension. Then there is no point in us talking specifically about financial laws. We should question the aspects and the prodromes that have led to this bureaucratic monster called the law of stability. To do this, I wanted to dedicate to Deputy Minister Morando, who serves Nemesis (because I see him very corraced and bored because of the fact that he had to suffer the interventions, among other things useless, of all the speakers, having to affix the government here little by little the fiftieth confidence), an intervention that raised him from his condition of thoughtful depression. In fact, unlike the other members of the government, he must listen to the juxtapositions of those who do not agree with many... president. There will be reciprocity, however, because then the Deputy Minister will also intervene. D'ANNA (AL-A). Yeah, but he'll talk for ten minutes while we're here talking for hours. They asked Bertrand Russell, who I think belongs to Morando's school of thought (he was a logical atomist), what philosophy was for, and he made a beautiful comparison. He said that in order to explain what philosophy is needed, it was necessary to remember the story of a man who, traveling by bicycle, had lost himself in the countryside of Winchester, and not seeing anyone nearby stopped at a casupola - which was a little refreshment - to ask the host what the way to Winchester was. Not finding anyone behind the counter, because the host was in the back shop, he said, "Lord, what is the way to Winchester?" And the innkeeper in the back shop, not having heard answered, "What do you want?" And he repeated the question: "What is the way to Winchester?" And the host: "Winchester"? The wayfarer said, "Yes, sir, the way to Winchester." The host replied at that point: "I don't know." So Bertrand Russell claims that philosophy is not about solving questions, it's about asking questions. On this basis, I ask Deputy Minister Morando: is this a measure that reinforcs the future and progressive destiny of the socialist state, of the maximum state, of the Leviathan State, of the State that can everything with regard to individuals? Or do the tax relief, depreciation for businessmen, tax relief instead go towards the happy liberal revolution that the President-in-Office of the Council offers us every day? I would like to give an example, and I therefore conclude my point, Mr President. You have dedicated a good part of this document to health care and you have told us that the Regions, with a plan of return from debt, cannot use the active leftovers: we have 500-600 million, in Sicily, Campania, Calabria and Lazio, which are the result of savings or linear cuts or of the subtraction of the care given to the sick, in the presence of an increase of the health fund assigned to the same Regions, which cannot be used to provide additional benefits. So that citizens of these regions can receive assistance not until September, but until December. Indeed, it seems that those who actually command, that is, the bureaucrats of the Treasury and the bureaucrats who are in the plans to verify the return from debt, have crushed their wings. So, even if we give you a sign of resistance, compared to the text of the Senate, which you had in the House, you had to stop in front of the missed boiling; but you should immediately fire these bureaucrats if you want to switch from Stalin's heirs to Milton Friedman's sons, Friedrich August von Hayek, Kelsen, to Wittgenstein. What did they put you through here instead? There is paragraph 526 which says that on the road of the future and progressive destiny of imperialism - hear, hear - you will go to evaluate the productivity of hospitals - those under state management are the real and only source of health debt - with a tariff parametric - you do not know well what these tariffs will be; I advise you to put what you give to the public health sector in private management - and, if you find a deviation between what this hospital produces and what it produces, calculated at rate, you will either submit this hospital or submit this hospital to a plan of return from debt. Therefore, this bureaucratic semantics is pleasing to you because you are still children of stateism and it is pleasing to these bureaucrats. Mr Morando, would it not then be better to write a staff and put it in a reform where you say that public and private, on the same technological, structural, instrumental and quality performance conditions, are paid at the same rate? Could you not imagine financing the state-run health care benefits it provides? This would be enough to save 20 billion on a fund, which, while constituting the fourth item of expenditure, does not give you any cause for concern. The road to Winchester is therefore still long. You still have to pedal to achieve liberalism in institutions and liberalism in the economy. Ride, pedal, the road is long! [[Applause from the AL-A Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u67	Senator Cattaneo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this comprehensive text, on which the Government will shortly put its trust, I will concentrate on two small "stories," which are also about to become the law of the State. They recall, in my opinion, how difficult and risky the work of the legislator is, in how many mistakes it can incur when it deals with matters that it knows less and also how important we can and should do, as legislators, for the development of the country. They recall that, if we want to invest in innovation, we must allow the free confrontation between ideas to win the best one, because this maximises the benefit for the citizen, making the legislative instrument - I am talking about the scientific field - become a mechanism of strong protection of fairness, transparency, respect for comparative evaluation procedures in the conferral of public resources and not a top-down allocation instrument, decided by the legislator. When this happens, a part of the credibility of politics fails and a further portion of that too feeble relationship between science and politics crumbles. On the other hand, I believe that we must work to break the mistrust between science and politics, a distrust which - as I have pointed out several times - I feel mutual. Well, in focusing on the first small story, I would like to point out that this time, too, we have run the risk of giving top-down funding to a chosen research; a mistake that my fellow Members in the House have corrected, together - I know well - the work of fellow Members in this House. I am talking about the rules referred to in paragraphs 409 and 410, perhaps to the best known ones such as the rules that finance, with EUR 6 million, the clinical trial with stem cells for rare diseases, with now meritorious procedures of selection of trials that will be judged more plausible. But in those provisions, in fact, there is much more than an important funding for research according to international parameters: in fact, in the two paragraphs, there is the realization of one of the main wishes that, as Senate, or rather as Health and Health Commission, we unanimously gave ourselves to the outcome of the cognitive investigation on the story Stamina, which ended on 18 February. With paragraph 409 we proceed in fact and finally to the repeal of the dispositions originally previewed from article 2 of the decree-law n. 24 of 25 March 2013, the so-called decree-law Balduzzi, with which it is expected the continuation of the treatments then in course with pretensioned mesenchymal stem cells and that, as such, constituted explicit recognition towards the illegal practice of Stamina. It therefore repeals that article of the decree-law which prescribed a clinical trial decided by Parliament, which - as has been shown - was in fact without any scientific basis and as such, thanks also to the evaluation of the committee appointed by the Minister of Health, has never been implemented. The experiment did not take place, but the decree - beware - remained standing. Further evidence of that moment so dark and traumatic for the country, the Constitutional Court on 1 December 2014, precisely in relation to the story Stamina, reiterated in summary that the legislator must not enter into the decisions on the appropriateness of the trials to be carried out; that is, the legislator must not decide which clinical trial should be done for a certain disease. This happened with Stamina, a closed chapter, which this Senate helped - alas - first to open, but then very forcefully to close. Here, the repeal of that decree-law today present in the law of stability, with simultaneous allocation of resources for good scientific research to be identified on a meritorious basis, is how much better we could wish for; indeed, it can only be the rule. But, if the outcome is commendable, it is important to understand how this happy conclusion has been reached and how, precisely for Stamina, the legislator has risked repeating the errors of the recent past, frustrating the work done with months of serious discussion and discussion. In fact, unfortunately and incomprehensible, here in the Senate at first reading we had not repealed Article 2 of the Balduzzi decree. I had tried to do this by means of an ad hoc amendment, which was considered inadmissible by the Budget Commission; an amendment which was signed by many senators, who, in addition to repealing it, requested that the 3 million tied to the alleged Stamina trial be allocated to the increase of the non-self-sufficient fund. But the amendment was not accepted. Here in the Senate we had instead moved in a diametrically opposite perspective, approving another amendment, on 25.42, which used the Balduzzi decree, without repealing anything, as a vector of other specific experimentation, also - and here lies the analogy with Stamina - decided arbitrarily and by law, without any comparative procedure of evaluation of the scientific assumptions and to which to allocate the 3 million allocated to Stamina and never spent. This is the mistake that I would like to point out to you and that the legislator must no longer repeat. There has been a great deal of indignation in the Italian scientific community in the face of that amendment, followed by a national and international media echo. There was an alarm that in Italy the method of allocating funds ad personam and top-down was perpetuated. All this, however, meant that parliamentarians who were more attentive and sensitive to the issues of research and its ethics would add reflections here and to the House and prepare amendments of a much different tenor. This is how the bar was pointed out, dedicating resources to research for stem trials for all rare diseases on a merit-based basis, but also eliminating in nuce the possibility that others try to use the skeleton of the Balduzzi decree for experiments and funding decided on the sole will of the legislator in office. I can only express my heartfelt thanks to those in the majority and opposition parties and to the Government itself who have had the lucidity and readiness to intervene and correct. Among the many I would like to thank my colleagues, many of the 12th I am referring to Mr Carnevali, Mrs Lenzi, Mr Giorgis, Mr Boldrini Paola, Patriarch, Amato, Argentin, Beni, Burton, Capone, Casati, D'incecco, Fossati, Grassi, Mariano, Miotto, Murer, Piazzoni, Piccione, Pini, Sbrollini, Capua, Pastorelli, Monchiero, Galgano and Librandi. I have lingered in the list because, working with you, I am increasingly aware of how much everyone in his singularity and with his/her skills has the possibility of weighing, making a difference, especially in seemingly minute matters, but pregnant with consequences. Of this story, however, it remains a warning: we must oppose, all together, the management of the public thing on a discretionary basis, without programming and with completely impromptu ways, when not even clientele or propagandistic. In science we do not go top-down: we must always act through competitive procedures for evaluating the most promising proposals. These procedures also help to define the reliability of innovation policies: they also look at young people when they decide whether to stay, leave, return and arrive in our country. Coming to the conclusion, reaffirming the importance of this correct evaluation of ideas and an honest, transparent competition that rewards merit, gives me the grip to introduce, much more briefly, a second small story, enclosed in paragraphs 580 and 581 of the bill of stability, which concern a national project on genomic medicine. It is the National Project genomes Italy, a wide program of sequencing and study of DNA of part of the Italian population and expansion of technologies aimed at it, which aims to identify the letters of our DNA that distinguish us; it is a few million of the 3 billion letters that make up our DNA. The goal is to tie the letters that are different to our different and individual responses to drugs or to our different susceptibility to diseases: most of this is written in those letters, so we have to find them in order to understand which and how many drugs to administer. Many nations have already started their national projects: the British Government has created its own company, called Genomics England, which aims to sequence 100,000 genomes in four years. Today Italy can also have its national project Genomi Italia and also in this case the merit goes to those who, in the Government and in the parliamentary classrooms, have shared and defended this proposal: in addition to the Ministry of Health, with its institutions, also to the members of the Group For the autonomy, of which I am a member, whose contribution was indispensable, and for all the colleagues who in the Senate and in the House have maintained it. The Italian genome project will receive funding of 15 million euros from the State in three years, but here in the Senate it was immediately asked that the amendment be conditional on the availability of equal resources (so at least another 15 million) by other bodies. Well, I don't know if you've read the papers in the last few days, but the president of the National Welfare and Medical Assistance Board (ENPAM), Alberto Oliveti, has expressed the desire of the agency to participate in the project, putting equal resources. With the vote of confidence it will only be the beginning. Then, under the responsibility of the Ministry, the priorities of sector research will be developed and a public call and evaluation will be made by a board of independent and competent third-party experts. Nothing must be left to chance because all of us, as well as the citizens, will enjoy the fruits of this work. There will be a strong responsibility for the scholars who will win those funds, because they will open a new frontier on the health of Italian citizens, with the opportunity to equip our national health system with additional elements of effectiveness and precision. Even in the light of these considerations, I announce my vote in favour of the draft law under consideration and, if requested, to the confidence that the Government will believe it to be so. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Liuzzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u69	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u70	Mr President, the draft stability law under consideration is based on the assumption, on which we have serious doubts, that it is enough to reduce the tax burden and reduce the burden of taxation on households and businesses in order to automatically determine overall economic growth and, consequently, a greater production capacity which would then have a positive impact on employment rates. We think that this is an old mode, a somewhat old hypothesis of work, since instead there is a need to change step. We believe that the content of a maneuver that aspires to be considerably expansive should be based on other pillars, such as investment, the redevelopment of the production system and the identification of a new horizon of the ability to make economy. This horizon is that of the valorization of the territory, its defence, its sustainable infrastructure, its root and every initiative consistent with itself and, therefore, the identity of that territory and the economy. I am referring to the development of the productive vocations of the places and the good use of local resources. The setting up of instruments of this nature would also be necessary in order to overcome an existing imbalance and strongly denounced by all and, first, by us in the Commission to the Senate (through considerations that the Government had shared): I refer to the imbalance between the North and the South of our country. I do not want to say that tax relief is an instrument that leaves things as they are and does not lead to positive elements, being convinced that tax relief and the reduction of taxes on households (I think, in particular, that on the home) are a useful instrument. However, I do not think that fiscal leverage can be used to overcome imbalances between North and South, to revive the economy as a whole and to improve our production capacity and make it innovative on the eco-sustainable front. I do not want to mention those that all recall these times; who more than others had the opportunity to analyze this topic, will remember an important political manifesto: I am referring to an Encyclical recently published by the Holy Father. Saving the earth to save ourselves does not just mean paying attention to how we consume resources and how it becomes unviable, through unsustainable pollution, the planet; it means finding a thread on which the economy can develop and also employment; it means doing research in that field, learning to produce without doing harm. It also means, in this sense, learning to produce using the vocations and resources that each one of us possesses within our own territory, a recipe that we must use not only thinking of ourselves, but also thinking of the rest of the world, that side of the Mediterranean that is the victim of greater suffering; that is, thinking that each of us, men and women, must learn to make our economy based on our energies, therefore the energies of the territories in which we live, and learn to respect them. We therefore need an investment plan that makes our country unattackable, as it is attacked on the front of the hydrogeological order; a country where it is not necessary to systematically rebuild, because damage is prevented; a country in which it is possible to think of enhancing for that type of vocation. I think of Sardinia: instead of drilling in the Gulf of Oristano to collect a few drops of oil is it possible to think of an intervention of a tourist-environmental nature, that is to make available the productive capacities of the wetlands, ponds and salt cultivation? Can we go back to being ourselves, to recognizing our identity even in economics? Of all this, there is nothing in the financial maneuver, and it is not critical for what is there - because some planned interventions are appreciable; I also appreciate them - but it is critical especially for what is not there, for what is missing. An advanced idea of development is missing. The idea behind today's measure is a repetitive, ancient idea, which leaves to the "industrial private" an idea of capitalism that is no longer there, the destiny of an economy and a society. The State has a duty to intervene on these issues, to direct, also to encourage, and also to support financially, an effort that is understood by those who have to take initiative. Therefore, it must not be a State that affects the enterprise, but that helps it, that directs it towards a destiny of general interest. In other words, the enterprise must return to a social function - not just the selfishness of profit - and that is support for the general interest. Unfortunately, there is no trace of this in the financial maneuver, because it is a maneuver that expresses a culture, in our opinion, of the past and not of the future. That is why we do not agree with these contents. We do not agree because we use the tax lever positively at the centre and we mortify it in the suburbs. When the Regions increase the additional IRPEF, taking away also 1,000-1,500 euros per year from the salary of the workers of the middle class in important regions, such as Sardinia, to cover the deficit of health care, what has given the right hand is lifted from the left hand and frustrates that positive solicitation that would have been given to consumption, allowing the families to own some more money to spend. That's exactly what happens. This morning in the Regional Council of Sardinia we vote for an operation of this kind and we vote before the end of the year because in May we will pick up the additional IRPEF of 2015 and, throughout the rest of the year it was also that of 2016. [[Recalls of the President]] I have concluded, Mr President. The Government: if the tax lever it uses is aimed at relaunching the economy and also the spending of families in this country in the next year, avoid that the Regions increase, with the additional IRPEF, the tax levy; otherwise, it would have frustrated also a good intention, which we also recognized in this maneuver. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u71	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u72	Mr President, coming today to the third examination of a controversial law of stability is certainly a achievement, not only because of the hard confrontation that has accompanied the debate in one and the other branch of Parliament, but also because of the sensitivity and relevance of the measures dealt with. Among these, perhaps the most strategic ones, introduced in the course of work, especially in the Chamber. This is perhaps the most appropriate premise that allows us to justify an increase of as much as EUR 8 billion compared to the original maneuver. The Premier summarized yesterday the guidelines of this law of stability. He spoke of an organic design: down taxes, defense of the weakest and simplifications; but we would have liked this leit motiv had accompanied every single point of stability. I do not intend to make a sterile decalogue of what could have been done or done better; but a lucid approach, which takes into account both what has been achieved and what is still to be done, cannot help but identify some operational gaps which, on the other hand, have affected the approach on certain issues. In fact, it makes us think that, precisely in a socio-political context in which the attention of the State towards the implementation of the instruments of security and public order is greatest, it is precisely some aspects of this sector - and the workers who work and sacrifice themselves - that they experience a clear lack of attention. I refer with regret to the fact that certain measures concerning victims of duty are not being deepened. I am referring further to the treatment given to the Red Cross and the fragmented tampon measures planned for its operation, which totally ignore the compromise resulting from the role and future of the first Italian humanitarian agency. A country that struggles to value its values, not paying due attention to those citizens and those realities that are an expression of pride, is a country that still has so much to learn. But let us take a step back, regarding the Red Cross; a rule introduced to the Chamber intervenes on the provisions outlined in Legislative Decree No. 178 of 2012. In particular, all implementing acts have been cancelled from the treasury account of the Red Cross or from third parties. There are no negligible doubts about constitutionality, when the citizen and the worker are deprived of an essential right, that of the defence of his or her rights and interests through the recourse to justice and the right to legitimate refreshment in the event of the acceptance of a request; a right which, we recall, is an unavoidable principle of our Constitution. Although this legislative intervention arises from the need to find buffer solutions to the impasse that currently conditions the institution, it is far from identifying a path that substantially revises the process of privatization of a fundamental public body of the Italian welfare system, always at the forefront to alleviate the needs of the weakest and most defenceless with an organizational model that has brought prestige to Italy and that has distinguished itself also abroad, currently the subject of a questionable work of scaling to the rank of an association, which will no longer have a pregnant and incisive role, as up to now has been indissolubly recognized. On this point, on yesterday's evening an agenda was adopted as a recommendation in the Budget Committee and I am sure, by making sure that this subject will soon become the subject of further parliamentary intervention. But shouldn't the Red Cross be addressed in the same perspective of implementing the security instruments adopted by the government so far? It is a doubt that frankly remains. As I mentioned earlier, Renzi spoke of protecting the weakest as a priority guiding principle of maneuvering. Excellent assumption, I would say, but for this reason it is even more difficult to understand why many families of serious and very serious disabled people will not be able to access the resources of the refinanced fund referred to in paragraph 405 of the new text. In fact, the specification for people suffering from ALS, in many cases is still misinterpreted by local health agencies to the point of creating a kind of supply constraint that excludes carriers of other disabling diseases, although, paradoxically, the law provides for it. Recently, the circulars of the Umbria and Marche regions are the most striking example of this dramatic problem. I asked for a simple formal correction that nothing would compromise in substantial terms but I want to believe that perhaps there was no time to deepen it. The dynamics, however, that led to this text, today at its last reading, cannot hide that they were sui generis, characterized by a division of competences and themes between the House and the Senate which, in fact, prevented the one and the other branch of Parliament from focusing on the same priorities. I do not want to enter into a sterile controversy about the fact that Parliament's competence under the Constitution has been taken away from the possibility of "reading" the rules on certain matters, but I would like to stress the fact that we are faced with lost opportunities and that, although motivated by the need to give priority to one issue at the expense of another, we cannot underestimate the effect that these shortcomings will have on the social level. Certainly we must not forget what has been achieved in the law of stability, although many of the achievements, although presented and discussed in the Senate, wanted to approve them in the House because of the macroareas of attention reserved in that forum, as I explained before. It is worth noting that some of the measures have also been presented by myself, discussed here at the Senate and welcomed to the House in a path of continuous attention certainly not negligible. I would now like to focus on the operation of the Ministry of the Environment. In 2016, a quota of 41 total units from the rankings of winners of open-ended competitions launched by ISPRA was available. These recruitments are undoubtedly a first important step towards strengthening the structure of the Ministry, but they are not themselves decisive. It is not only a matter of strengthening the number of employees in the role, but also and above all of completing in the broad sense the organic endowment of this Ministry, acting on both quantity and quality. Indeed, the specificity of the tasks assigned to the Ministry of the Environment would require the stable presence of a qualified and structured technical role in the ministerial ranks. This requirement stems from the close link between national environmental policies and the constraints established at European and international level that Italy is required to comply with, to which are added the increasing environmental protection obligations in the national territory that directly involve the central administration; just think of the increasing exercise of the substitute powers on which the same law of stability has intended to strengthen the recourse to infringement procedures and sentences of condemnation of the Court of Justice of the European Union. As Vice-President of the Environment Commission, I can only draw attention to this very measure. This is certainly an important step, but there are many open fronts and they must be resolved. But the hope is that the sensitivity shown by this Government, towards issues sometimes considered to be second-floor, is a prerequisite for further financial corrections to be made perhaps in short-term measures; and this also because some issues leave a sense of unfinished that risks to stun with the attempt of multi-faceted and multi-tasking intervention to which the Government seems to have wanted to tend. In this particular historical-political situation where new security demands, growth measures and instruments for protecting the weakest groups overlap, the institutions have renewed their responsibilities. And perhaps with this stability, which from schematic became largely omnibus, we realized it. But we can't leave the commitments in half. I certainly want to have a constructive and responsible approach to this vote of confidence. But I would like to point out that these commitments, which I discussed earlier, must be taken into account in the forthcoming parliamentary debates so as not to fall into the trap, so exploited by the populists of each side, of double standards. I would like to make a clear statement on these commitments and, among them, on the need to give proper value to measures of a financial nature, in the name of a principle of subsidiarity, equality and functional rationalization which unfortunately, in many cases, continues to be subject to sometimes questionable priorities. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u73	Mr President, first of all, I would like to stress and point out that working with this timing is insane. The official text of stability appeared on the Senate website yesterday, late in the morning, and allow only a few hours to read and study 437 pages that contain 999 paragraphs, many of which were inserted at the last minute, I can only call it an arrogant, bullying and bold act. Therefore, I will confine myself to addressing the issue of the 2012 earthquake. At the first reading at the Senate I had tabled an amendment to Article 33, no. 50, in which I asked that the free zone, which included the Modena Municipalities hit by the 2012 earthquake, be added to the twelve neighbouring municipalities, but in the province of Mantua. People living a few hundred metres from each other cannot be discriminated against. It seemed to me to be an amendment of pure common sense. Well, my amendment was rejected. Now I see that, in the version released yesterday from the Chamber, paragraph 445 widens the Modena free zone and also includes some municipalities located in the province of Mantua. But of the twelve municipalities hit and recognized by law, only nine were inserted and then another was added, hit by the earthquake only marginally, but of the other 3 no trace. They are small municipalities: Magnacavallo, Schivenoglia and Pegognaga, probably children of a minor god. But let's stop for a second. Let's focus on PD's behavior. Where's the ratio? An amendment proposed at first reading by the 5 Star Movement is rejected; then presented by the PD at second reading and approved. These are the so-called waste of time to get to which you want to abolish the Senate. Still remaining on the subject earthquake of 20 and 29 May 2012, I remember article 3-a, paragraph 6, of the law 6 July 2012, n. 95, which assigns funds for reconstruction and which reads: For the purposes of implementing this Article, the maximum annual expenditure of EUR 450 million from 2013 onwards shall be authorised. So there's already money in the balance sheet. You've been announcing these 450 million for three years. If we think of how many times you have announced them, earthquake victims should have strongholds and castles, instead of houses that are still unworkable. But these funds have not yet been fully allocated. The first part was assigned, with the utmost calm, by Decree-Law No. 78 of 2015 which, in Article 13, allocates 205 million, 140 of which taken from this fund, while the other 65 million are drawn from the interests of a fund for reconstruction. Then we move on to the current law of stability, and precisely to paragraph 440, in which we assign 30 million to the Lombardy region "to further support the economic recovery" after earthquake, without specifying which are the areas of the earthquake: are the initial ones or the twelve municipalities or are the ten of the free zone? You don't know. Then paragraph 441 assigns 1.5 million to local authorities in Lombardy. Then paragraph 443 assigns another 3.5 million for security. Then, in paragraph 444 to "satisfy the additional needs of the affected populations" another 70 million are allocated. I forgot: the free zone I mentioned earlier, namely the ten municipalities, was financed with EUR 5 million. In conclusion, Mr President, the sum of EUR 140 million, EUR 30 million, EUR 1.5 million, EUR 3.5 million, EUR 70 million and EUR 5 million is finally allocated, hoping that this will be the right time, as the author said. To reach 450 million euros, 200 million euros are still missing: the mantovano earthquakes are still waiting for them since 2012. Citizens need concrete actions of help and not announcements. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u74	Senator Cantini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have read these days in the newspapers and have heard today in this House and in the Commissions the criticism of the law of stability, various as always, insistent, but nevertheless, and often - in my opinion - ingenious with regard to the content of the measure. I would therefore like to mention briefly some of the measures included in the Stability Act, which I consider to be important, because they involve all citizens and businesses positively. This law, in fact, is in favour of the growth and reduction of taxation on citizens and businesses. Only to make a quick list, it provides for the elimination of taxes on the first house for all and the reduction of the IMU on rented properties at agreed rent or data in comodato to the children and removes the IMU on machinery functional to the production processes and on agricultural land owned by direct farmers or agricultural entrepreneurs. Super 140% depreciation on machinery purchased by companies is introduced. It is also expected to reduce other taxes on agriculture, increase tax simplifications for VAT consignments, decontribution to 40% for a further two years for new hires in 2016, the reduction of IRAP for seasonal tourists, tax deduction for VAT on the sale of real estate of building companies and for real estate leasing, increase of IRAP deduction for small enterprises, VAT recovery for uncollected loans, ecobonus, which is reconfirmed and expanded, detaxation of part of productivity wages. In addition, an automatic tax credit is re-introduced for companies investing in the Mezzogiorno and then there is a tax advantage for new recruitments in the Mezzogiorno, starting in 2017. This law is not left-wing, it is said. If this law is not left-wing, it is not left-wing to give back purchasing power to families; it is not left-wing the fund established to fight poverty, to which 600 million euros are allocated for 2016 and one billion euros since 2017; it is not left-wing the fund for the fight against child education poverty or the fund, with a budget of 90 million euros per year starting from 2016, intended to cover measures for the support of people with serious disabilities, without family ties; it is not left-wing to set up a fund for the care of persons with autistic spectrum disturbance, with a budget of 5 million euros, or 5 million euros, for the year 2016, for projects to make effectively independent the lives of people with serious disabilities. Perhaps for some this is not enough left: for us it is, even if still so much remains to be done. We are here for this, to do: we are the left of doing. Much remains to be done, but the road is the right one, the direction also, towards greater growth and more social justice. It includes a plan of attention, prevention and protection the resources that this law of stability devotes to culture and the suburbs (it is 500 million euros for 2016), the program for the realization of urgent interventions for the regeneration of the degraded urban areas and the increase of the territorial security or, again, the possibility for the amateur sports associations, not those with so much money, to obtain in concession or in lease to preferential rent the real estate of the State. This is because social inclusion and culture, the creation of a beautiful and rich social fabric, which can include everyone, even children born in less fortunate situations, are examples of good investments, which will be shown, over time, in all their value. Include the children and allow the cost of labor to be taxed, that they are constituted through tax deductions more stable employment contracts, with the norms that allow to buy in lease a property, buying it with the price of the rent, are choices of good policy. Or even the 500 euros for eighteen-year-olds, to be used for the purchase of books and entry into museums, theatres, archaeological sites, or the one-off 1,000 euros for the purchase of musical instruments by those who study at the conservatory, are a process of inclusion and investment in generations and culture, because inclusion is a good practice to be pursued if we do not want to face the future with terror. How right are the security resources with which the Government makes available 1 billion, in addition to 150 million for the fight against cybercrime, and the extension of 80 euros to the Forces of Order. Finally, allow me briefly to talk about my sector, transport. How long have we been talking about sustainable mobility, reduction of traffic, cycling, intermodality in transport? It's been a long, long time. Well, with this provision you have a substantial increase of expenditure for the planning and the realization of a national system of tourist cycleways; the realization of Cyclostations; for participations for the safety of the cycling in the city; for the planning and the realization of tourist itineraries on foot; for the services of railway and intermodal transport in arrival and departure from the logistic and harbour nodes and, finally, for the potenziamento of the intermodal and road chain. More money for roads and railways. Finally, let me close with a final notation on the Government's attention to the issues of inclusion. I have tabled an amendment to the Senate, together with the Group of the 8th Commission, which makes it a priority to take account of the needs of people with reduced mobility when purchasing local public transport, because public expenditure must also be effective and calibrated in order to allow everyone to use public transport. And after the transition to the House, this fund was very conspicuously refinanced until 2022. It is a sign of attention and inclusion in this law of stability and that makes the difference in ensuring fairness, justice and autonomy for all, starting from weaker and disadvantaged subjects. In short, again this year we have taken another important step on the road to reform and growth. Step by step I am sure that we will be able to give back to our beautiful country the smile and trust in our potential and in the future. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u76	The joint general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Zanoni.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u77	Mr President, I give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u78	I call the rapporteur, Senator Chiavaroli.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u79	I give up the replica.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u80	I call the Vice-Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u81	Mr President, I also give up my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u82	This concludes the joint debate on the measures on the agenda. We now come to the follow-up to the discussion of draft law No 2112-B.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u83	We shall now proceed to the examination of the articles of the draft budget law. I would like to point out that with the approval of the individual articles, the tables, the general frameworks, the annexes and the lists referred to by the articles themselves are also to be approved and are listed in the 2112-B print (with the second Note of variations).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u84	He asked the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, I raise the question of trust. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] on the adoption, without amendments and additional articles, of the single article of bill No 2111-B (Stability Act 2016), in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u86	The Presidency notes that the issue of trust has been raised on the adoption, without amendments and additional articles, of the single article of bill No 2111-B (Stability Act 2016), in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. I therefore call upon the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups to organise the debate. The sitting shall be suspended until the end of the Conference of Leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 1.48 p.m. and resumed at 4 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Leaders has organised the discussions on the question of trust posed by the Government on the 2016 Draft Stability Act, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. For the general discussion on confidence, one hour and thirty minutes were allocated, on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The explanations of vote will follow. The call will therefore start around 16.30. Two further votes will follow, at around 5.30 p.m. to 18 p.m.: the final vote on the draft budget law, by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure, as well as the final vote on the draft RAI reform law. This is our order of business. As you heard, the hours are clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u88	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill of stability before us, like any law that is passed every year, obviously has merits and limitations. With regard to merits, it is an expansive maneuver and, therefore, there are further interventions - compared to the text that came out of the Senate before being modified in the House - so the maneuver goes in deficit of 35.4 billion and, therefore, in percentage terms of GDP, of 2.4. What surprises me - as has also been said in this House by the opposition - is that we have repeatedly torn our clothes because respect for the Stability Pact obliges us to remain below the 3% ceiling in the deficit/GDP ratio. Several times oppositions have asked for that limit to be exceeded in order to expand, to be able to do what we should do, namely to respond to all the spending needs that we have to face. Well, when the government chooses to move from 2.2 to 2.4 percent overtaking, it accuses itself of increasing by 0.2, and this could be a delirium in economic terms (we will see next year what it can actually be). Positive are the increase in the no tax area for pensioners and the extension of the unemployment benefit for collaborators (DIS-COLL) - also this important - as well as the possibility, even for women in maternity, to participate in the corporate premiums, considering them as real workers even when they are at home. For the South there were perhaps more promises and expectations, but nevertheless the House has made some improvements: greater reductions for recruitment, even if they will start only from 2017. It must be said that we already had in our pocket Law 407 of 1990, which allowed more important reductions, but last year we wanted to suppress it; we did not respond, perhaps, in a comprehensive way to this need for the South. Again, another important measure is the release of recruitment into health care: it will certainly not be enough, but it is certainly a necessary first step. Beyond, then, the reorganization that each Region will have to do in health terms, in order to ergonomize the services and respond in a better way to the needs, it is however important, in qualitative terms, to respond also through the hiring of staff both medical and nursing, the latter actually in strong deficiency. The card for large families, which gives them greater benefits and discounts to meet their needs, is also a point of merit. The Italy of Values has always paid a lot of attention to gambling. Surely what has been done in this law of stability is not enough, but it is a first step: already removing advertising from 9 a.m. to 10 p.m. on public and private channels is certainly an important step; removing it from all networks, as has been chosen to do, is obviously a good thing, otherwise, if we had only removed it on public networks, there would have been unfair competition. Moreover, even advertising on private channels causes social damage, which is then paid in health terms, to the community and to those who pay taxes. Again, one important and qualifying point concerns local television. Also in this regard, as Italy of Values, we wanted a fund to be set up for local issuers, which give work and are very widespread in the territory. This has been done thanks to the RAI canon: given the expectation of increased revenue from the RAI canon, a distribution will also be implemented in favour of local issuers. As for the limits, we, as Italy of the Values, would have wanted more courage in the positions taken regarding the use of cash; we would have liked that, at least, things had remained as they are at present, that is that it was possible to use cash up to 999 euros in reality, it was chosen to widen the meshes and to extend this possibility up to 3,000 euros. This certainly does not help the legality, because it does not allow the traceability of the money in circulation. It is true that, if we really wanted the money to be more traceable, in contrast to illegality, this position should also be taken by the whole of Europe, not only... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u90	Please finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u91	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). ...not just from our country. We will therefore have to work on this and make improvements. Another point is that it was not intended to encourage the deduction of health care in the dental field. Our national health system does not respond to dental care or, at least, only responds to nine percent of the demand, it would therefore have been appropriate to implement deductions for dental health expenses. This would make it possible to bring out undeclared work, black work and abuse in the field of dentistry. We have also gone back on the possibility of access to competition for graduates of type L01 (class of degrees in cultural goods): in the first phase, in the examination of the Senate, an amendment had been inserted that allowed them to compete to enter the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism; then, in the Chamber, after the insurrection of officials and Minister Franceschini himself, the amendment was lifted. [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u92	You have to finish, because the time is up. Please say the final sentence, because we are organizing the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u93	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). You're right, I'll stop right there. That amendment has been removed, so I am very sorry. It's a question of whether three-year degrees make sense or not. 14,08 p.m. (Benchini followed). In all cases, our representation - I am here to represent Italy of the Values - is in agreement with the relative majority party, the PD. We believe that this law of stability has, of course, limits, but also many merits and we think it is right to give our assent to this law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u94	Madam President, of course, as far as trust is concerned, everything was quite predictable and obvious. I just want to make sure that the documents remain two considerations, but on the issue of security and, the other, on the issue of credit. Our vote, the vote of the Forza Italia Group, is obviously contrary to the law of stability. Sometimes the President of the Council says: but how, do they not vote in favour of a law that removes the tax on the first house? We note that a mistake is being corrected which has been made by the governments that we have seen passed through these classrooms. The tax on the first house was removed by the Berlusconi Government, so, for us, the absence of the tax on the first house is a condition of normality, is not an exceptional event. It was unusual to re-propose an exotic tax levy, which the Italians have just finished paying. We hope, moreover, that the cancellation of the tax on the first house - which we consider, I repeat, the restoration of the policy of the government of center-right led by Berlusconi - will not be compensated by the revision of the cadastral extimes by substitute fiscal interventions of the cancellation of the IMU on the first house or, even, by the calculation of spaces, square meters or other methods of taxation on waste. In short, we would not like the revision of the register or the taxation of waste with a different basis of calculation to compensate for the failure to draw the IMU. We'll see what happens in time. As far as security is concerned, Renzi says he put a billion for culture and one for security. The billion on culture we want to understand who will end up: I would not want to end up with third world organizations or new Buzzis, who, with the excuse of doing other CARAs of Mineo or other business, then will take money, in theory, to cultivate immigrants and, in reality, to profit. For Christ's sake! We've already spent a lot. And where have Renzi's demands for a refund, or rather, an increase of 3.3 billion for the extra expenses incurred for immigration ended? So the money's already there for foreigners. We spent 3.3 billion more in 2015 alone. Europe has not yet authorised the overflow and we have not understood how much has been spent: do we want to spend more? Then they say: we requalify the outskirts. We will see, other types of interventions are desirable and useful because they serve Italians, foreigners and anyone living in degraded areas. We would not, however, like all the psalms to end the glory and therefore the Buzzi and the "Cooperative 29 June" next to the belly, the next CARA (speaking of the assistance centers) would feed the money for the alleged integration for the benefit of third world organizations and other waste. As far as the billion allocated for security is concerned, we see that staff remain a crumb of all this, because 150 million go to cybersecurity. Very well, so our security services will not let the terrorist Salah, still fugitive, who took the ferry to Bari in August, after having crossed Italy and then, so had been safe his transit in Italy, he also made the way to the contrary: he thought that here you pass quiet, because nobody asks you anything. And Salah, who, together with others, committed the massacre in Paris, went back to Italy during the summer. Where were the security services? How much are they? What are they doing? They don't work. They're cheap. Someone gets angry when I say it, but they're cheap and they cost too much, and we give them another 150 million for cybersecurity. We hope that electronic structures will be more efficient than the physical structures of agents. After that, $500 million is assigned to the defense. I also take this opportunity to protest: we read that in Mosul, to protect an important dam, or private interests, 450 soldiers will go. What Commission has been talking about this? Yesterday there were whole press agency launches on the subject, then I realized that the Copasir had talked about this. And yes, my Group, Forza Italia, is not part of the Copasir and therefore we know nothing. Parliament closes its session before Christmas - it will come back to work in January - and we know nothing about the mission in Mosul. Do you have $500 million to spend on defense? All right! 150 million is allocated for cybersecurity, 50 million for various machines and equipment and 300 million for staff. How do you pay the bonus of 80 euros in 2016 to all police forces, fire department and port offices? Moreover, those of the Harbour offices had forgotten them, and only thanks to the amendment of Elio Vito has been corrected this error: how, you send them to take the illegals and not even the 80 euros you wanted to give them? The 80 euros, however, are worth one year, for 2016, and do not count for social security purposes and therefore are not a stable element of pay and future pensions. And how do we renew the contract for the police, since the Constitutional Court, in June, issued a judgment requiring the release of public employment contracts? For the renewal of contracts, €70 million remains, equal to €3 per employee and €80 are valid for one year and, I repeat, are not a stable element of remuneration. That's not good. So it's all a recitation: 500 euros to the kids and 80 euros to those others, various announcements without a serious policy, stable action for greater security and a greater culture. With regard to security, therefore, we are convinced that appropriations will be needed in the course of the year, because we cannot but renew contracts since the Constitutional Court orders it and the 80 euros are good for an announcement but do not fill the effects of six years of contractual blocking. And then, the contract should have a three-year projection, from June 2015, as established by the Court, to June 2018. What do we give the police for these three years? We do not believe that what has been done is sufficient. In conclusion, there is the question of banks. This morning I attended the protest in front of the Bank of Italy. I believe that the Governor of the Bank of Italy, Visco, must resign for the omission of vigilance. Even here, the government gives 100 million to those who have been conned, while to pay the debts of the Unit the State gives 107 million. For the state budget the debts of Unity are worth more than the people cheated by the banks. We want this to remain in the record, too, because it takes 900 million to compensate the bondholders who have been swindled by the banks. Otherwise, people who have other banks' bonds will run away, and the system will collapse. And the system must not and cannot collapse. [[Senator Marino Luigi's dissension.]] I see Senator Marino doesn't do that with his finger: so you don't want 900 million to be paid back? MARINO Luigi (AP (NCD-UDC)). I'm saying they won't run. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Then speculators won't even show up from Cantone, because speculators, financial corporations, understand that it went wrong and they'll do it again next time. To show up from Cantone will be those like those I saw this morning at Via Nazionale. I invite you to go see them: they are people who trusted the bank, who told them to make certain purchases, because so much the current account makes zero. We believe that this issue is not over and that perhaps more money will be needed otherwise the credibility of the system will fail and the credit system will still be needed. Of course, you can remove Visco from the Bank of Italy and other characters from some local bank. Here I save controversy over relatives, attached and related, of which we will talk again on the occasion of the question of distrust to the Government as a whole, which Forza Italia has promoted and signed, before others and as much as others. I will stop here, Mr President, to reaffirm our vote against the government's confidence, which we are also distrusting today, and against the law of stability which, even on credit and security, does not solve the problems of our country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u95	He's enlisted to speak Senator Companione. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u96	Madam President, we, as our Group has already said, will not be able to give the government confidence in this measure, because, although some of the measures contained in it, such as the abolition of the ICI on the first house and the IMU on agricultural land, we believe that the Government, as we usually think, has lacked courage and has not been able to develop an organic framework for real development. Above all, for those who speak to you, he points out a problem, which we have repeatedly put to the Government without being properly listened to so far, that is, the one, year-old, of the development of the South. This problem has been, yes, in some way, the context, but, in fact, beyond great pronunciations, it is dealt with in an insufficient and lacking of courage. However, we will have to check the real effects of the measures taken. Even this time we will not be able to trust the Government, and we will not be able to do so until there is a serious plan, agreed with the Sicilian purification in order to create real development, which certainly does not happen with the one-off commercials and donations. These really do not serve much, and in the absence of a general project of growth and above all of job creation, the scarcity of which is the real tragedy of Southern Italy, cannot originate either development or work in the long term. As far as IMU is concerned, we had asked for it to be abolished for all agricultural land, for whatever reason it was owned, but the abolition was limited only to direct farmers. This certainly denounces a lack of courage, strategic vision and even real knowledge of the problem. Another serious problem that we have highlighted to the Government, which did not listen to us, is the very serious and annoying problem of the precariousness in Sicily. We are talking about 22,000 people, who will be able to be fired as soon as this further year of extension expires. In a land where unemployment is already at very high levels, imagine what it means to lay off 22,000 more people. On this occasion, considering also the political homogeneity of the Government which is substantially left-wing, in direction PD, a party that has functions of government both at the national level and at the level of the Sicily Region, could have made a serious and adequate reasoning, stabilizing once and for all these 22,000 precarious. This would not only make their lives more decent, but also allow greater stability in the municipalities themselves, increasing the effectiveness of the action of these employees and the government in local administrations. It would have sufficed, as we had proposed, to grant the extension for another two years and, in the meantime, to oblige the regions, through the municipalities, to prepare the new organic plants. By meeting the needs of the municipalities in this way, we would have created greater efficiency within them and given security and stability to all these people. All this has not been done and, among other things, the very serious thing is that the year of extension is maintained only for the municipalities not in failure, while all the municipalities in pre-dissement and in failure will not be able to implement any extension and this small detail means that 7,000 people will be fired, with a huge increase of the social framework and in the social estate of this Region. Once again, the government has been deaf to these problems. For these reasons, although I come back to say, there have been some hints and at least an opening of intentions for the solution of the problems of the South (but we will see), from now on we announce our vote against the confidence requested for the approval of the measure under consideration, in the hope that the Government will open its eyes and want to start a serious and concrete reasoning on the development of the other half of Italy. [[Applause from Senator Barani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u97	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u98	Madam President, we do not know whether we should comment with a serious joke or reasoning on yet another request for confidence and yet another debate on trust in this House. In fact, with this Government and in this legislature, we have now completely and definitively changed the procedure for the adoption of laws. This also applies to the law of stability, which is certainly one of the most important measures. This procedure has changed in fact, because in this House - but this is all about Parliament and therefore the whole Parliament's relationship with the Commission - we no longer approve almost any law under the ordinary procedure: whether it is the conversion of decree-laws or delegated legislation, the substance does not change, because in the end we always come to the same point. We will vote against confidence, not only because, as an opposition force, we are opposed to this Government, but because we are totally and firmly opposed to this law of stability. Certainly the law of stability has been amended in the House of Deputies, but this has not changed in any way towards maneuvering. From the beginning we had defined this maneuver as absolutely unfair and above all not able, despite the propaganda, to be defined as expansive and the data are inexorable from this point of view. An unfair maneuver, which also on the tax front and regarding IMU and TASI on the first house did not see us absolutely agree, because it has in itself the negation of the root of progressiveness. As is well known, in fact, it was possible to eliminate the IMU for the poorest families and of course for the lowest cadastral incomes, keeping it for that band, which corresponds to and no to 10% of taxpayers, which was carrying almost 40% of the revenue and this could be used to deal with some social emergencies. Instead, the measures of this maneuver and the changes made to the House are more of an electoral nature than of a long-term and structural nature to deal with what is now the poverty emergency. We will continue our fight in this House for the establishment of income of dignity and I am wary of the government wanting to sell the rules contained in this law of stability against poverty or other cards for families with at least three children as the beginning of a path in this respect, because they have absolutely nothing to do with what we believe is absolutely necessary and that would also give the possibility of modernising our welfare system and its characterization in a more universalistic sense. The maneuver therefore does not change towards: it is unfair and certainly not expansive. It is certainly not with the reduction of taxes that a recovery of the country is induced: it is an economic theory widely used in the past with the Berlusconi Governments, which also refers to the Chicago school, but we know that wherever it was tested it did not produce the results it evoked. Today, in order to emerge from the crisis - which we are still in - a real investment plan would have to be put in place. Even private investments, despite the incentives (then I will return to this point), cannot have any virtuous effect if they are not in symbiosis and therefore if they are not accelerated and stimulated through a real plan of public investments in the crucial sectors for this country and for an environmental sustainability. After signing the Paris Agreement we should remember how we then implement it, how we put in place rigorous actions to achieve those objectives and therefore to a completely decarbonised economy, not only sustainable, but much more: a sort of ecological conversion. Investments in the territory, sustainable infrastructure, transport, mobility, school, culture, true valorization (not in the sense of consumption of other territory) and on the redevelopment of the territory: these were the cornerstones that it was necessary to put in place for a real plan of regeneration of the territory and urban regeneration, that began to lay the foundations of an absolutely necessary ecological conversion if we really believe in that Agreement signed in Paris that our Government also signed. The maneuver focused very much on the so-called external emergencies, in particular on security. It is divided into two actions, one more specific to security and the other so-called culture. We agree that cultural measures and social support must be put in place, but the measures chosen do not agree with us: they have an electoral taste and, among other things, the allocation for the famous card of 500 euros is not even clear how it is covered. Those resources, all together, would have been much more useful if they had been invested in the fund for the right to study and this would certainly have been a further step forward, rather than being used for interventions in favour of eighteen-year-olds for electoral manoeuvres, in view of the local elections. With regard to interventions on the redevelopment of the suburbs, we agree - in fact, I spoke of an urban regeneration plan - but everything is centralized in the Presidency of the Council and here too we have the doubt that they are always used for electoral manoeuvres. The measures planned for IMU, the measures for sport and the card contained in this law of stability have much the flavor of electoral maneuvers and, frankly, is once again a missed opportunity. In fact, having increased the deficit from 2.2 to 2.4, we have put in place about 4 billion euros more. We absolutely agree on challenging and breaking flexibility, but we think that the resources should be used to give the country a chance to recover and, therefore, for that public investment plan, which I mentioned at the beginning, in the sectors crucial for the future of the country. The other manoeuvre for external reasons was the rescue of banks. I would like to say very clearly that the allocation of EUR 100 million, which has always been placed on the fund that should be a guarantee for household bank deposits, will also cover only one fifth of the losses of the savers involved. We are very careful: these measures will once again benefit the banking system itself, as it will be able to buy back shares of the newly created banks of 1.8 billion euros. Therefore, we should really, as I have wished several times, have a very serious debate on the Commission of Inquiry and make real decisions on the banking system in our country. It is hoped that this will happen when work is resumed. In summary, in this law of stability there are many micro-interventions and many electoral spot interventions, but also the whole of the changes made to the House were absolutely not able to change towards this maneuver, on which the judgment remains absolutely negative. One last point concerns the intervention to avoid the referendum on drilling. Even there it is not exactly what is announced and there is an almost swindling attempt, because even heavier drilling interventions are only suspended and not erased. I would remind everyone that we need for the future, if we really want to be innovators and not conservatives and look to the past, to put in place a strategy for a low-emission economy, with decarbonisation and exit from fossils. It is therefore absolutely necessary an energy plan that definitively abandons the idea of drilling, an idea that in a very conservative and almost challenging way to modernity this Government is carrying out. For these reasons, we shall vote against confidence and the law of stability. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group and Senator Campanella]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u99	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u100	Madam President, for reasons which are diametrically opposed to those of my previous colleague, we shall vote against. Why? Because we haven't been given a chance to go into the matter. We, in many points, share this law and have tried to enrich it; we have tried to help the Government, as Mr D'Anna said this morning precisely and with great fervour, talking about the road to Winchester. We have helped to point the way for reforms, to reach the goal of the reforms to be carried out. Ours is a Group created to make reforms; it is a constituent Group, for reforms and for constitutional reforms. So we really want to help change the country and that is why we would like this Government to allow us to make a greater contribution and to come to vote on a law as well. When a government raises the question of trust, it is the confidence of the majority and not a parliamentary confidence; instead we would like to help make laws for the country. We criticize this law a little, to which we have also contributed in many of its points and to which we attach a positive vote of sufficiency. Some Christmas decorations have been added, which are niches that do not respond to an overall view. In the provision we passed on last week and which we sent to the House, the so-called decree-law on the Jubilee, there were twelve articles that were included in the law of stability. So there's no overall view. These decorations are not good for the Christmas fir, the fir of the recovery, that fir that must give oxygen and absorb carbon dioxide, for the photosynthesis chlorophyll, for the life of the country, for the development, for the occupation, for the infrastructures. That is what we believe is necessary. In this regard, there is one sentence - Senator D'Anna mentioned many of them this morning, but he forgot one - by Victor Hugo, according to which it is not enough to destroy the abuses, but we have to change the customs; if the mill is no longer there, the wind is still there. This means that the philosophy that we pursue as a Group, that of merits and needs, of development and reforms, has the hand held back by a maximalist left. That is why I said that we will vote against it on the basis of considerations diametrically opposed to those carried out by Mr De Petris, who drew his speech to a becero maximumism that leads to nothing. We would like the government to remove this brake, which led to these Christmas decorations of a spruce that is only valid during the Christmas period, period and only, while we would like consumption, recovery and employment to be three hundred and sixty-five days a year. Do not allow us to vote for trust, since we are not in the majority and that is why we ask you, from now on, to stop putting trust, in order to allow us, too, on laws that we share, to be able to give our vote in favour and to tell the country that we have helped and contributed to the development, employment, growth and economic recovery that we begin to see. Red in the evening, good weather hopefully, however the good weather is seen from the morning and the good weather, at this moment, can only be seen if you make the reforms. And we want to make reforms. [[Applause from Senator Comrade.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u101	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Undersecretaries, the law of stability is a maneuver to Renzi, electoral, in search of easy consent. The Premier in his debut focused on the elimination of TASI and agricultural IMU. Then, in the second reading in the Chamber, but only after the attacks in Paris, a billion for security was added and, according to the logic of Florence, for culture as well. Are these last two measures characterized by multiannual programming? Absolutely not. They are one-off interventions valid only for 2016, such as the 500 million for cybersecurity, the instrumentation of the Forces of Order, or as the 80 euro bonus for the staff of the Forces of Order, the Firefighters and the Armed Forces, with which the Premier - but he is a poor fool - thought to keep good the operators on the slope of the contractual renewal. Our men in uniform, who must protect our citizens and the country, forced to tax themselves to pay for the bulletproof vests or to do the maintenance of the service machines, deserve seriousness and much more than this tip. I wonder and ask you whether, in order to guarantee the country an effective security apparatus, one can rely on one-off measures. No. One thing is certain, if there had not been the massacre of Paris, we would have fired a text, that of the Government, that marked for 2016 a cut of 500 million to the mission public order and security, an irresponsible hypothesis that shows how superficial this Government is. Say it's an expansive maneuver. Yes, but it is a question of debt expansion, in fact the net balance to be financed is 35.4 billion, covered almost exclusively by greater indebtedness. You are irresponsible, but in any case you are consistent, that is in line with the 300 billion increase in debt created from 2011 to date with the governments of the appointed, supported by the PD, one hundred of which recorded during the Renzi Executive, of which 20 only in the last month. This is the harsh reality, other than the consolidation of the country's public finances! Today, after having given responsibility to the last government elected by the citizens, that of Berlusconi supported by the League, when removed from 2009 the ICI on the first house, the PD changes its mind and, after having reinstated from 2012 with Monti the assets on the first house, today turns 180 degrees. In four years, with the unfortunate choice to have introduced the IMU, it has gone from an ICI revenue of 9.2 billion in 2011 to a growing IMU revenue that has reached the peak of 25 billion in 2014 and 2015. In these four years have been stolen from Italians, families, craftsmen, professionals and businesses 15 billion more every year, for a total of extra levy of about 60 billion; a forceful levy, obtained by calling the mayors to make the tax collectors on behalf of the State, which dramatically accelerated the crisis of the real estate market, determined the closure and failure of thousands of companies in the building sector, with the consequent loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs. Bravo, congratulations! This is the heavy legacy and great responsibility of the three governments of the appointed Monti, Letta, Renzi and the main political force in their support: the Democratic Party. Since 2016, without TASI therefore, the assets on houses and sheds will fall, but will remain abundantly above 21 billion per year, a revenue very far from the 9 of 2011. We at the North League are for the reduction of taxes on the house, but we reaffirm that we do not share financial cover with the use of more debt. Where is the much trumpeted spending review, once again failed, as certified by Professor Perotti's resignation, the Gutgeld shoulder, the last of the many commissioners who have failed? Other than spending reviews, in many cases the Government is "spending more," starting from the management of immigration, a subject on which we continue to take absolutely deserved slaps from Europe. Other than Italy, which dictates the European agenda on immigration. We receive slaps for the missed photosignals of the illegals who thousands continue to land on our coasts; slaps for the long time for the examination of asylum applications that make the reception system explode, for the happiness - given the huge economic deal - of cooperatives, private and hoteliers failed. That of the reception system is a problem that is exploding and which should be dealt with with with a greater number of commissions and men for the evaluation of asylum applications, by establishing special sections for asylum in the ordinary courts, to which it is used, and therefore by proceeding to return for those who do not have the right to do so. There is nothing about this programming in the bill of stability. In fact, with the rejection of the amendment tabled by the North League, which devoted money to the return fund, the will of government and the majority that, despite the proclamations, is not wanting to repatriate the illegals has been exposed. That's crazy. No money to the return fund, but only money for the reception: this year a madness costs the total amount of 3.3 billion euros (it says Minister Padoan and not the North League), which will increase to 4 billion in 2016. In this way, two out of three illegal immigrants will continue to benefit from an asylum which they are not entitled to. We are talking about tens of thousands of subjects who, after enjoying food, accommodation and telephone for free for months and years, will continue to be illegally on our territory. Not only security and culture: the infamous decree saves banks has also been added to the Chamber of Deputies. This is a measure made to the label by the Government that, with a serious political choice, took the capital of Bank Etruria, Bank of the Marches, CariFerrara and CariChieti and brought it into the bad bank, deciding a devaluation of 83 percent. Within a few days this measure exploded in the hands of Renzi and Boschi, since from evening to morning he left many victims in the field: more than 100,000 savers, among shareholders and subordinated bondholders, who lost the savings of a lifetime. The Commission's late EUR 100 million solidarity fund is far from sufficient, and the government's justification for its smallness is clumsy to avoid being accused by the European Union of State aid. Why could Germany use billions of avalanches to save its banks (even with the money of the Italians), while Italy did not? Why yesterday did the Portuguese Government save a bank by providing for a disbursement of almost 2 billion public money, avoiding zeroing for subordinated bondholders? We continue to have unhomogeneous behaviour between the various countries of the European Union and Italy has taken the worst decision. The figure of 100 million for the Solidarity Fund is too low. Much of these resources will be spent to pay for arbitration and little will be left to compensate the conned savers. Canton, the parsley called by Renzi for everything (in this case also for arbitration), will also guarantee impartiality, but will not guarantee the full refreshment of the swindled savers. The North League demanded much more for the refreshment of bondholders and even shareholders. Instead, the government has shown to turn its back on families and businesses that have lost everything, first deceived by their own bank that has betrayed their trust and now ruined by the government. It is scandalous that this decision was taken a few days after Commission Renzi transposed the European directive on banks by means of a regulation which took away from savers the possibility of exercising the right of revenge against the bad administrators responsible for these failures. The Renzi-Padoan couple actually created a dangerous precedent that undermines the liquidity of the real economy. Imagine what will happen from next January 1, when the new rules of bail-in will take place, which will charge the price of the rescue of a bank at risk of bankruptcy not only to shareholders and bondholders, but also to accountants. From next January also a simple relationship with the bank will be considered risky, with negative implications on the collection and, therefore, on the financing of the same credit institutions, that will automatically reduce the lines of credit to families and enterprises. The bail-in must be absolutely changed, even if we understand that it can be functional to someone in Europe to drain the high savings of the Italians, or functional to someone in our house to divert the savings of the Italians from their bank to Poste Italiane, it happens, society not subject to the bail-in, today more oriented to finance than to the historical universal service - in fact, has closed many post offices - to the joy of Cassa deposits and loans and of those who control it (the Government), perhaps for financial operations unscathed or questionable like the realization of the bridge on the Strait. I mean, the League wants us to be clear. We want the Commission of Inquiry into the crack of the four banks to be set up immediately, officially requested together with Forza Italia. A committee of inquiry that detects irregularities and scams and above all identifies those responsible for paying, as the President of the Republic also asked yesterday, after days of silence. No, President, we are not, we do not like this bill of stability, not only because of the debt side but also because an opportunity has been missed to implement important measures. You have not revised the Fornero law, the main obstacle to the entry of young people into the world of work, nor have you definitively solved the problem of exodus created by that inauspicious law. You have not touched the problem of pensioners, who are hungry: more than four out of ten receive a cheque of less than one thousand euros, and the League does not say so, but the social balance of the INPS, according to which, of the 15 million pensioners, almost two have cheques of less than 500 euros; and these are still waiting for the bonus of 80 euros promised in 2014 by the Renzi Government. In addition to the compression of the health fund, you have still planned cuts in the regions compared to the promises. Still linear cuts, without the application of standard costs, to which - I remember - are added the other 7.7 billions coming from previous measures. It is serious for us to reject the amendment signed by the League which called for the exclusion of accompanying allowances for disabled and seriously ill people from the ISEE calculation. Renzi says that behind stability there are no marchettes, but there is an organic design. All bales: the maneuver is full of marchettes, tips and favors; many voices, even from a few thousand euros, for everyone. It is a return to a disgusting practice worthy of the First Republic; it is a new assault on diligence, which carries with it a chest now empty, conducted clumsily by the coachman Renzi. I conclude, President, by expressing, on behalf of the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group, the best wishes for Merry Christmas and a serene 2016 to our two maròs, Latorre and Girone. It is already the fourth Christmas - from that far February 2012, when they were arrested in India - that they will spend without the freedom that this Government has not yet been able to guarantee them. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u103	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u104	Madam President, just a few minutes to remember what this bill of stability contains about culture and school. What do you do with culture? Instead of deciding to have a far-sighted perspective and trying to restructure, and, by reforming it, improving the world of our cultural heritage with a long-term vision, we decide to do the usual operations of pre-election propaganda. In fact, we have a Premier who, alas, has been caught by the perpetual campaign syndrome. Then, after 80 euros, comes a bonus, in the form of electronic paper, of 500 euros to those who turn 18 in 2016 (who knows why it is to those who turn 18 in 2016?), as if children had no right to have money for their own personal cultural training. Even the worst pedagogist knows, in fact, that eighteen years is certainly not the age in which the intellectual, spiritual and cultural formation of a young person begins. It is legitimate, then, to wonder if this is not yet another march in view of future elections; that, then, is also a march made maluccio, very superficial. Renzi launches this beautiful campaign talking about Italy as the country of libraries, but he needed the 5 Star Movement to introduce, among the expenses that can be made with that card, that for the purchase of books. But look at this: we are the country of libraries and reading, but young people were not allowed to take advantage of this money to buy books. Thanks again to the 5 Star Movement, these 500 euros can be used for visits to art galleries, archaeological sites and natural parks. In Law 107 of 2015 there was a paragraph in an article (the book of dreams), in which it was expected that in schools the study of the history of art, music, civic education, food education, environmental education and the study of natural parks should be strengthened or introduced; beautiful things that, however, did not provide for the allocation of additional funds: they were all without charge to the budget of the State. And then - toh - these 500 euros come out, always the usual illusory brand, without taking charge of doing structured interventions. But we also have the 1,000 euro bonus for the purchase of a musical instrument for students of music schools and conservatives. And we, instead, are still waiting for a global reform of the sector; this would certainly encourage students to have places where they can study music and learn to play an instrument, perhaps with an adequate staff, with adequate buildings, with all the certifications of agibility and anything else. Instead, we decide to give the bonus of 1,000 euros, not to reform the sector of high artistic and musical formation and music high schools, to which we had to give a breath of oxygen. And again in the Commission lies the bill to reorder the music school sector. We've also had to block marches. These are the ones that have passed, but we have also managed to block some of them, for example the one that wanted to fund the foundation Romaeuropa-Art and Culture, led by the wife of MP Marco Causi. We have not, however, blocked the amendment that provides for the suspension of the application of the rules of spending review for the MAXXI Foundation, led by Giovanna Melandri, which in recent years has certainly not distinguished itself for a virtuous management of financial resources nor has it been given virtue even for management in other fields. Among other things, it is a private-law foundation which - it seems - will see the entry of ENEL into its board of directors. Here, we have not been able to block this brand, which provides that the MAXXI foundation will be able to exceed 500,000 euros a year, since 2016, its budget. I'll finish with the school. It has been denied the restoration of posts for auxiliary and technical-administrative staff, fundamental to the good performance of the schools; we speak of the janitors and the people who work in the administrative offices (2,000 places cut in the last law of stability that have not been restored). It has even been said 'no' to the training of technical and administrative staff to support disabled students in their hygienic activities; it has been the courage to say 'no' to this proposal too! As we have had the courage to say no to the amendment which tried, at last, after a very long telenovela, dotted with shameful mockery, to resolve the situation of the so-called 96 of the school, which still, after promises and mocked, wait to have access to the well-deserved pension, which they were entitled to if she had not arrived "mother Fornero from Calcutta" to do what she did. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So it is clear that even as far as schools are concerned, given the funding to private equals (let us remember, another 25 million) and everything I have said, we are certainly not happy with this bill of stability. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u105	He's enlisted to speak Senator Galimberti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u106	Mr President, fellow senators, representatives of the Government, we are at the third overall reading of a bill whose content is far from providing the stability that our country needs and even less provides the foundations on which, in theory, the economic policy of the coming years should be set. However, it must be acknowledged that there is something stable: the use of the bonus as a basic instrument of this government's policy. Announced as the first real expansive maneuver in recent years, in reality it is a measure without any real tax and economic policy project, a series of paragraphs whose result is the increase of the already abnormal public debt, placing a further burden on the future of our country. Of the 999 paragraphs that constitute the measure, only two can be shared: the increase of the limit of the cash to 3,000 euros that brings us closer to the European standards in which eleven countries, including Germany, Holland and England, have no limitation to the use of banknotes, and the abolition of the TASI on the first house that grants a little 'breath to the Italian families that, with the last three governments, have been hit on their primary good. Apart from these two measures, therefore, the rest is a joint venture of contradictions, vain promises punctually disregarded and commercial measures which, instead of solving the many problems of our economic system, leave them unfinished or even worsen them. For example, the safeguard clauses: instead of disabling them and freeing the country from this sword of Damocles, the Government has committed 17 billion out of a total of 35 to postpone them to 2017. A totally irrational choice even in the light of the fact that the coverage of this manoeuvre has not yet had the final place of the European Union. The Commission has probably failed to take account of the fact that the funds to be raised will be much higher next year than this year, but above all, if the European Union does not accept a deficit maneuver, the Italians will find themselves paying the cost of gambling with a repair maneuver next spring and the increase in VAT rates. Such a prospect would lead to a fall in consumption of Italian households for about 65 billion euros as calculated by the Confcommercio study center. In this already difficult situation, in Palazzo Chigi, in the most total legislative schizophrenia, it was thought to add a new safeguard clause on excise duties for the amount of 2 billion to cover the measure on the return of capital from abroad. Then I remember saving banks, a measure that saved four credit institutions, but downloading the costs of the operation to 130,000 savers with very serious social repercussions. The Government has made an unacceptable choice whose consequences go far beyond economic effects: it has skilfully violated Article 47 of the Constitution which protects the right to save Italians; it has undermined the system of guarantee and trust established by the Constitution. In addition, it has set up the Solidarity Fund with a budget of only 100 million, a sum totally inadequate to heal the 350 million euros lost by the currentists. As far as security is concerned, we are witnessing a real theater of absurdity on this issue. At the request of the Italians to be protected from threats to their everyday life, the Government responds by allocating 150 million for the enhancement of cybersecurity, extending the 80 euro bonus to the armed forces and then leaving them with equipment unsuitable for service and finally a tax credit to natural persons for the installation of video surveillance systems or alarms. Is that really what the country was asking for? Definitely not. They are only small interventions, useful to create consensus, as well as the bonus culture of 500 euros to the newly eighteen, or of 1,000 euros one time for the students of the Conservatories. It has been decided to give security only to the PD, guaranteeing the hold of its base, put to a hard test by the latest scandals that have overwhelmed it. Finally, I would like to close by reminding you that this financial manoeuvre was expected from the entire productive world like that of relaunching, an economic flywheel that should have guided the country towards a decisive and definitive recovery and instead, once again, not only the expectations have been betrayed, but the main measure expected by the companies, the reduction of the IRES, so promised by the Premier, has been neutralized and postponed to 2017. A further blow to the real engine of our economy. If only a genuine and effective spending review had been carried out in the public sector, a drastic reduction in taxes could have been achieved without increasing public debt. But a pre-election maneuver was preferred in view of the spring local elections. But you know, this is PD. This is the Renzi Government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u107	Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u108	Madam President, I am speaking briefly only to leave the following to the acts. Paragraph 556 states that, in order to ensure the clinical and organisational effectiveness and appropriateness of the services provided by the National Health Service within the framework of the LEAs, the National Commission for the updating of LEAs is established at the Ministry of Health, in which representatives of scientific societies may participate. This is a very complex point, as scientific societies have often not been characterised by an objective assessment of health benefits, but, as we also see in television advertising, they are very often responsible for excessive or particular consumption of drugs. I conclude here, but I want what I have said to be left to the record, because this is a measure that will not lead to a saving of the National Health Service, but will certainly cause the cost of benefits to expand. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u109	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u112	BONFRISCO (CoR). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the text of the bill of stability that we are about to vote for is the one for which Minister Padoan has spent words of great satisfaction on many occasions. In fact, the Minister defined the maneuver as a further step forward in government economic policy, the ultimate aim of which is the creation of good quality jobs, thanks to the return to sustained and sustainable growth. In this it is supported by Prime Minister Renzi, who never fails to remind us that, thanks to the work of the Executive, Italy has now emerged from the crisis and has taken the virtuous path of growth, which next year will certainly reach 1.5% of GDP. But obsessively repeating a concept does not mean telling a truth or manifesting evidence. The Minister of Economy and the Premier constantly repeat this chorus precisely because the numbers know them and know that they tell us about our difficulties. In spite of the press and television that support the reckless work of this Government, the mantra that now recite Minister and Premier is more like a hope than the externation of economic forecasts. A wish that certainly falls within the government's skillful communication strategies or that, however, each Government has the obligation to carry out. But what good is it to say that we will grow by 1.5% tomorrow, if not to conceal the problem that we have today, now, of an effective growth that even fails to make true the forecasts made in October last? Is it possible that no one remembers that the growth of our economy is strongly influenced, almost exclusively, by that quantitative easing put in place by the European Central Bank? An influence that weighs about 1.4%, just in the biennium 2015-2016, according to studies that have been diffused and, above all, according to the study of the Bank of Italy. Not to mention the occupation, which is another battlehorse of the Executive: there are few lights and shadows in the data provided by ISTAT, in which there are all the perplexities for a labour market drugged by the contributions contained in the jobs act. I believe that the words of yesterday's President of the Republic of Mattarella have sounded loud and clear, because of the concern shared by them too, according to which the numbers of growth, but above all the numbers of employment do not leave much hope. So much work will have to be done on this front. What, then, would be the economic policy of this Government? If this law of stability is an explanation of this, we are not doing well at all, Madam President. According to the facts, this law of stability would be represented by that generic, old-Keynesian idea - so generic and so old-fashioned that even Keynes would probably deny today - that helping consumption is the best way to sustain growth. It's not like that. Therefore, in the most important economic measure of the year, which indicates the way forward and the measures to be taken, we have seen - particularly on the occasion of the transition to the Chamber of Deputies, but this had already begun in the first reading by the Senate - a long list of uneven, broad-spectrum measures that make this bill of stability more like an omnibus decree, than a measure containing the fundamentals that constitute a reliable forecast of growth. Apart from these specific provisions, which I do not even want to mention, because my colleagues have already mentioned them extensively, I simply say that there is room for discretionary choices in an uneven view. Someone calls them tips: I don't want to do it, but certainly the fact that this law of stability resembles a gigantic tip law, unfortunately, is before everyone's eyes. I also recall, for example, the emblematic case of a measure that can find the favor of many, including ours, that is the bonus of 80 euros for those who work in the security sector: this is yet another manipulation of the tax system. It is an old practice, which we have already seen and which does not produce the desired effects. It is not 80 euros, which are given and which I dare not define tip for anyone, but we aim to achieve an objective through tax and tax leverage, which we hope will truly achieve all the effects that our Premier believes he has to achieve. What about the EUR 500 allocated to 18-year-olds in a hypothetical cultural operation, linked in some way to the most important security intervention? What culture can be guaranteed for our young people, through access to the most diverse forms of shows and cultural initiatives? Will they really help young people to understand cultural value today in a context in which one of the toughest crises is being tackled from the point of view of international relations, which is likely to lead to far more serious events? Do we really think of fighting this international crisis, which has led to tragic events, such as those that happened in Paris, through an injection of money, in a pseudo-culture, to which we would like our young people to access? Or didn't our young people rather need to be able to be anchored, with a strong intervention of public finance, to their role within society, to make them part of a great operation of solidarity and unity with their country, with their homeland? An operation that made them feel patriots of an idea, as well as of a country, and defenders of their identity? I have paid much more attention to the Government's commitment to civil service than to this, which risks being a sad instrument, which in some time - not even much - will certainly be stigmatized, for wrong and distorted use, which will throw a bad light, on a measure that costs so much and cost Italians. But I come to the most dramatic question contained within this bill of stability. Not assimilable to the tips of the law of stability, but rather to an approach that we have considered wrong and that we have stigmatized since its origin, is the way in which this Government has intended to address the issue of the rescue of banks that, being an integral part of the banking system, carried with them the risk of a very dangerous contagion effect: although these four banks are not even 1% of the Italian banking system, they brought within them the danger of many financial instruments also the danger of the contagion effect. It is right to remember here, because this is the seat of economic planning that through the law of stability must be done, that the famous directive that we voted in a somewhat careless Chamber in July for its transposition, that of bail-in, is not intended to protect bank depositors, but public budgets, concealing this instance, which is a true fixation of European policy on two seemingly noble grounds: that of not burdening on the community the burdens caused by unwary operators or by financial scams, and that of preventing the rescue interventions of crisis units from taking place as state aid, i.e. those capable of altering the proper functioning of the market. However, we do not take into account in that directive the profound differences between its real and financial components, those which have led to the serious crisis in progress. In short, the saver loses all protection in the name of higher instances. That directive was wrong, and even Commissioner Hill had to admit that it was probably to be corrected and he was committed to doing so formally. It was necessary for some governments, such as the Italian government, in defending their banking system and their savers, to impose on European leaders the revision of that directive, because it had achieved the objective of correcting some distortions of the financial system that belong little to us and much to many other European countries. The reality that is now incumbent on us, however, is the worsening of the guarantee treatment, which will take effect from 1 January, i.e. in a few days, which will be a real threat on the path of the Italian economy and society. In fact, in our savings there is our life that passes, our vocation to saving that makes us among the most important countries in the world from this point of view; there is the economic history of the country and also that possible development that we still have before us, but that we must not waste. The market fixations of finance, the one that speaks English, unlike the Italian one strongly rooted in the economic fabric of our territory, have had the best and we have sacrificed a lot on the altar of a European policy, which we do not have the strength to counter and correct (and this Government least of all), endangering not only the security of those savers today involved by the hypothetical scams of those banks, but also the whole solidity of the banking sector, a fundamental tool for any economy and for any possible growth, that we have not been able to defend. For these profound reasons and for the many reasons of opposition to a gigantic tip law that some still call stability, we will vote firmly against the confidence of a government that we do not consider to be up to the situation. [[Applause from Senators Bruni and Quagliariello.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u115	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I should like to begin by pointing out that neither the President of the Budget Commission nor the rapporteurs are present. This shows the attention given to the measure. That same attention has not been applied even when it was a matter of having to apply the accounting law. If we go to read article 11, paragraph 3, of such law, we note that it is prescribed that the law of stability cannot contain rules of delegation or of order, or organizer, nor interventions of localistic or micro-sectoral nature. If we look in detail at the bill in the vote, we notice that there are interventions of 100,000 euros for the company Dante Alighieri, 100,000 euros at the Historical Museum of Liberation in Rome, one million to such association and anything else. The government has asked us why we complain, since on the total figure of the maneuver (35 billion) all these microsectoral interventions represent only the zero comma. The concept is not of the zero comma, President: the concept is that the law of accounting has not been respected. We should be the first to comply with all the laws! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bulgarelli]] We would also have to say about the method used in the analysis of this measure. We have seen that a number of amendments have rightly been declared inadmissible in the Senate, as the rule says so. In the House, by chance, they have become eligible. Why were they inadmissible here and from there they became eligible? Probably had to be favored by someone or probably the MPs are more insistent than the senators of the majority who are here in the Senate. Finally, there would be discussion on the same time-frame of analysis in the Commission, the seat of the Senate's third examination. The concept is: we do not look at the text, we have to do it quickly, the important thing is to approve it, it does nothing if there were important issues such as the issue of banks and security, the important thing is to do it quickly. The technical report arrived late in the afternoon when we started the Commission in the morning; but it is not important to read it, the important thing is to do it quickly. In the House, a number of amendments were then incorporated without a minimum of coordination. Let us think about the rules on cinema: after having just been introduced into the decree containing territorial measures, we find them in the law of stability. The same applies to the CONI: 100 million have just been given to the CONI for the Rome nomination committee for the Olympic Games and, by chance, we find them also in the law of stability. But the thing that has left a little perplexed is the norm for the redevelopment of the urban suburbs of the decree-law with territorial measures; we find this provision also in the bill of stability, where it has a peculiarity, that is, the 500 million data to the Presidency of the Council, that is to Renzi: the Premier will be able to decide, in its indispensable judgment, to which municipalities to give them. To these 500 million, however, ladies and gentlemen, there is also the 800 million that we gave him with the decree-law on local authorities. Therefore, Renzi has 1.3 billion euros at its disposal, which it can dispose of by deciding who to give it to and thus determining its electoral campaign. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli.]] It's no use talking about spending review. My colleagues have already mentioned the issue we are talking about. A year ago Renzi said: "Ah, the spending review!" and thought to solve all our problems in finding resources. Now we're done talking about it. Even, what little has remained of spending review to someone is not applied, who knows why; if we then go to see the list of those who are not applied, we find out. Then we think of that system of making a law so that we can say: "Look how good I am! I'll give you a rule that the administrators of public companies have a limit on compensation! I do this! Later there will be the final vote on the governance of the RAI; then we discover that yes, there is this limit, but it is enough that the company issues bonds and resorts to the market and, by chance, you exceed this limit and you can decide the compensation you want. But we're used to that now. Beautiful these standards impact and effect on the public! If we go see the substance, zero. As far as the issue of banks is concerned, the most absurd thing is that we talk about so many things, but not about responsibility. The government introduced the bank-saving decree into the law of stability; this is a crazy thing, but it did. He says: "I have numbers and who cares about everything else" An amendment was tabled asking for the responsibility of the directors; it happened to have been rejected. An amendment calling for a ban on the sale of toxic securities was tabled. There is a small rule that says that those who manage a bank that fails lose the requirement of good repute, but with this system these administrators will not pay, especially if we then go and see who the magistrate is investigating. He is a magistrate of Arezzo who, by chance, is a consultant of Palazzo Chigi. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The savers, Madam President, in our opinion have been cheated, because with their life savings they have lost everything. We then asked the government, since the bridge companies will then be sold, to use how much it will collect from the sale of these banks to go and fill the solidarity fund for shareholders and bondholders who have lost everything. The answer was negative and you don't understand why. Again, the government said: See how good I am, I'll make 100 million available to you. Too bad, however, it is not known how to whom and with what criterion will be given; already it is thought that there will probably be few who will take some compensation. Another issue is security. How many times in this House and in the House have the Senators and Members of the League raised the issue of security? And all laughing at us, saying, "But no, you are the usual alarmists! We're a quiet country. Don't worry, the Forces of Order are fine. Then let's go and see that, coincidentally, maybe we were right. Even then, the government must go to the shelter, saying also in this case: I'm good and I give a billion to the Security Forces. Then we go to see in detail and discover that only 500 million are paid in terms of security, because the other 500 million are given to Defense for international missions. The theme of the 80 euros the Government says: "Look, I give 80 euros to the Forces of Order". Madam President, those 80 euros are for a year and above all they are gross; if we go to see that that staff has had the contractual blockade for six years, we will eventually realize that it will receive about 30 euros. It is for these reasons, Madam President, that we will vote firmly against confidence, because this is a measure of electoral adverts, an election campaign and nothing else, without that vision that a real government must have in view of the long term, because it is a manoeuvre made only of deficits for Matteo Renzi's electoral campaign. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u118	Mr Barani (AL-A). Madam President, the Group I represent will not vote in favour of the draft stability law, but for reasons contrary to those of Senator Comaroli who preceded me, because we share a number of points in this measure that we have helped to put in place. We have tried to get amendments to both the Senate and the House (in fact few have been accepted), but we already felt that the maneuver was sufficient in itself, yet it has been improved. You see that I now have the dossier containing 364 pages of amendments approved by the House and I am convinced that neither the chairman of the Tonini committee, nor the representative of the Government, Senator D'Onghia, can tell us about these changes, which we in the Senate have had to read, evaluate and view with great difficulty in twenty-four hours. As I have already said, our Group will not vote in favour of the issue of trust, precisely because trust is inherent and is being asked by the majority, while we are an opposition group, which wants to help make reforms; a Group, as Senator D'Anna said before, which wants to take us to Winchester, which points the way, as we do at all times. We want reforms to be made: those for recovery, health, justice, taxation, work (deleting the hateful Fornero law) and, of course, the constitutional one. In the course of the debate, our commitment has never been lacking. At first reading we were always present in the Senate with amendments that we have illustrated and helped to make understand to Deputy Minister Morando (and it was not easy, because he has still pervaded from that left that Senator D'Anna called socialist maximalist, which has nothing to do with that reformist). We, however, are convinced that it repetits iuvant and that, by repeating things, then people can understand them. Some of our most significant proposals have also been accepted. I am referring to the agricultural IMU, the exemption of low-income pensioners from the payment of the RAI fee, the increased commitment to the Mezzogiorno. All these measures were instructed here in the Senate, but then codified in the passage to the Chamber of Deputies. I am pleased to have seen in the House an amendment on defensive medicine that had also been presented by me and rejected in the Senate; the same reasoning applies to the paragraph, approved in the Chamber, which allowed the enrollment to the ENPAM fund of the students of medicine and dentistry of the fifth and sixth year. I am referring to the amendment by Mr Di Gioia, which is the same as I tabled in the Senate, but which has had a different fortune: in the Senate it was rejected, while in the House it was approved. This means that Deputy Minister Morando had the opportunity to "metabolize" him and to understand that he needed to be approved in order to help ensure that students of medicine and dentistry enrolled in the fifth and sixth years could also benefit from the new pension protections. Therefore, perhaps the government acted in the manner described hoped to silence its majority by offering it on a silver plate the possibility to contribute precisely to the completion of an expansive economic policy line (the one that we, as a Group, sought to carry forward); an indispensable choice to restart the country's economy. Unfortunately, that was not the case. On the other hand, there has been a sort of rembing that has denied the roots and principles of Law No 196 of 2009, which represents the cornerstone of the budgetary session, to the point that the President of the Budget Committee of the House of Deputies himself is obliged to admit that this cannot be the case and that the whole system must be reformed. In the previous speech I made during the discussion on the question of trust I had the opportunity to talk about firs and Christmas tree decorations: fir is indispensable when it also has roots; if cut and placed everywhere - even in St. Peter's Square - without the roots - then obviously withers and decorations will be beautiful, but only during the Christmas period. We are showing you the way to Winchester, the way to reform. This proposal runs the risk of only being an escape forward, if the taking of the government over its majority will not change or, better, if there will be no majority able to give consistency to the action of government. This is the real contradiction of the current political situation: there is a numerically large parliamentary majority, but so divided within it and with maximalist brakes that it is impossible to develop a coherent parliamentary action. As we have said several times, we are ready to do our part and we did so also when we appointed the judges of the Council because Barbera and Prosperetti without the 19 votes of our Group would not have become judges of the Court. We have therefore helped to elect the three judges in a specific way; otherwise, only Modugno would have been elected, because the inhibiting brake of that maximalist and antagonistic left would have caused Barbera and Prosperetti to miss the votes necessary to be elected by a two-thirds majority. Therefore, we continue to engage even more in the development of a reform process that allows the country to finally get out of the dry land in which it is located, but the task of making the first move is for the President-in-Office of the Council, who will first move better for everyone. Madam President, in concluding my speech, I obviously confirm that this stability plan is sufficient, but I repeat: confidence is being asked of the majority and not of those who want to help make laws. For this reason, it would have been appropriate to approve this move in accordance with the normal procedure and not through a vote of confidence. We hope that the President of the Council will have the strength to change the things that can change, that he will have the patience to accept the things that cannot change, but, above all, to have the intelligence to know how to distinguish those that can change and those that must have the patience to accept. Moreover, he must not compete among those who are more presentable because he will always find on his path someone who will believe himself more presentable and will judge him entrepreneurial. For this reason and with these two aphorisms, which are not mine (one by Thomas Moro and one by socialist Pietro Nenni, then by a founding father of the Republic), our Group, while expressing a more than positive opinion, is obviously forced not to vote for trust because, as I have already said, trust the Government asks for it from its majority. [[Applause from the AL-A Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u121	GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI, Id). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, gentlemen of the government, I shall make a very clear assessment of the financial manoeuvre that this House is preparing to fire. However, I would say that I will do so in full respect of those who, within the parliamentary group to which I belong, intend to vote in favour of this draft law and, indeed, thank them for allowing me to express my opinion and those who believe that they cannot agree. With today's day, the senators who gave birth to the IDEA movement and who formed a member of the Great Autonomous and Freedom Group are structurally outside the majority that supports this Government. The whole path that led us to the opposition took place with transparency in this House. If we take back the parliamentary acts of the last few months and the speeches with which we have contributed to the debate, we can retrace the stages and the evolution and, above all, understand the reasons. This does not mean that our attitude will be dictated by prejudice. We do not like favorable prejudices and, consistently, we will not have prejudices against them. We will be in opposition but, where there will be interventions that serve Italy, we will press the Government and we will do our part. We have also done so in relation to the draft stability law under consideration. The opposition, which I shall argue in the time allowed to me, is not a child of prejudice and this is demonstrated by the attitude we have held during the parliamentary passages of this manoeuvre. From the beginning we had challenged its installation, complaining about the absence of cover, conservatism compared to the pockets of customer state-of-the-art in which billions of unproductive and often pathological public expenditure are nested, the reference to improbable payments in the short term destined to fill with new and higher taxes the chasms opened by fiscal reduction measures not supported by corresponding cuts of expenses. We had expressed fears about a deficit manoeuvre, all dictated by the contingency and the search for consensus in the short term, against the macroeconomic trend of Europe and beyond. If it is true, as Prime Minister Renzi says, that austerity feeds populism - and certainly it is true - it is equally true that democracy is not bought with public spending. We had proposed a package of interventions, few but incisive, which would result in 2 billion structural savings each year. We abstained from the Senate as an opening of credit so that our proposals could be transposed into the other branch of Parliament. In the House of Deputies, all our amendments were declared admissible, thus taking a step forward in relation to the hypocrisy used in the Senate, but in the end they were consciously rejected. On the other hand, the amount of the maneuver has increased from 27 billion to over 35 billion euros, half covered by the safeguard clauses, that is with the promise of new taxes in the years 2017 and 2018. The debt ratio has risen from 2.2 to 2.4 percent. Another 3.2 billion were added to the 14.5 billion mark-up of our debt as a result of the interventions approved by the House of Deputies. Despite this, all the nodes remained unsolved. Weak, very weak answers have arrived, both on the family and on the South: themes that should have been addressed in the other House. On the other hand, the bill of stability has reached 999 paragraphs, without breaking the roof of the 1,000. Mr President, I do not want to make an easy joke, but this figure reminds us a lot from the end-of-season sales. What is more serious is that such a risky maneuver, at such an uncertain international time not only for terrorism, but also for the slowdown of the economy in many of the so-called BRICS countries, will lead, according to Premier, to an increase in growth from 1.4 to 1.5% (perhaps 1.6). We have come, precisely for this logic adopted by the Government and the majority, to give importance to a 0.1 more or less, as if there were to be won or to lose a bet. The problem is another one: such a risky maneuver would have made sense if an effective growth of 1-1,5 points had been proposed compared to the forecasts, not if we stopped only at the decimal points, which will probably be frozen by international quotas. The other element, which seems to us to have been worse than the Senate text, is that the logic of the one-off policy of this government has been strengthened. You see, Madam President, if I wanted to be caustic, I could say that this logic recalls, in postmodern sauce, the practices of Naples of the Sixties, masterfully described in Raffaele La Capria's novels. But I want to make another thought, which is more fundamental and less controversial, and I address my colleagues in the majority in particular. We have opened this legislature with one objective: that of a structural consolidation of the country both from the institutional point of view and from the economic point of view. This was the basic logic that governed the Government of broad understanding. It was a historic occasion, in some ways. Some people around there would have said: make Italy a normal country. I would add: even a country able to face tough times, and perhaps a country in which one could afford what a Social Democratic Head of Government in France did at the last elections: an appeal to its voters to vote in certain circumstances for their opponents. What was left in the middle of the legislature of that emerging logic, of that historic occasion? We have reforms of the institutions that have been approved in some parts of them in a half-empty Chamber, with confidence, without even the whole majority and even the whole relative majority party. From the point of view of the economy the logic of the one-off has passed, for which they give - one-off, in fact - 80 euros to someone before the European elections, 80 euros to the Forces of the Order, once again one-off, and 500 euros to the eighteen-year-olds for the culture, thinking that this is an intervention that can be structural in the war on terrorism. This approach denotes, at best, an unbearable conception of cultural imperialism [[Applause from the M5S Group),]] because one should know that there are certain principles that we should protect, above all others. We should protect the principles of democracy, respect for the other, separation between the religious and the state spheres. We should protect the principle of equality between men and women, while cultures must confront each other freely, and in some cases also integrate. Other than 500 euros to defend an undefined lifestyle, which in some cases seems to be boundless in the freedom of the spritz to take in the center of your city! All this is very superficial and all this is reflected in this law of stability. Madam President, allow me one last remark. You see, the contrasts between the President of the Council and the Minister of Economy have been a feature of governments both center-right and center-left. Viewed from a very close perspective they have marked pages also very bad, but considered in a historical logic they have represented that clutch that has allowed to hold together the accelerator and the brake in very difficult times for a country that has the public debt like ours. That clutch game of the Prodi and Berlusconi governments - to name names - seems to me that today it has failed and that the brake is no longer there and there is only the accelerator. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] But the descent and danger of our time did not fail. This is also a difference from the past, on which perhaps a reflection is worthwhile. These are the criticisms that I am referring to this House, on the basis of which we shall vote against confidence in this measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Bignami and Mauro Giovanni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u122	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u124	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, we are faced with a bill of stability that finally marks a turning point: not only austerity, as in recent years, but also the objective of growth. The fruits of the Renzi Government's policy are already visible, because Italy is coming out of the longest and most lasting crisis in history. This law of stability seeks to inject a massive amount of trust in businesses and the population; the confidence that is indispensable for a country that wants to succeed in the economy and in the world. Firstly, tax deductions and strong incentives to reduce the tax burden on businesses, jobs and households are to be mentioned; secondly, simplification policies and investment resources to support the economy, measures to promote innovation and digitalisation, primarily of small and medium-sized enterprises; and finally, liberalisation choices and the reduction of constraints in order to increase the competitiveness of the Italian system in relation to other European countries. Among the proposals that we have considered priority and which have been accepted, the most important are the raising of the cash threshold to 3,000 euros, the extension of the IRAP deduction for seasonal workers, the tax benefits for individual entrepreneurs who choose to exclude capitalised real estate from the company's assets, the tax exemption for scholarships, as well as a number of tax breaks for agriculture and closed farms. In a bill of stability that is oriented in a structural way to determine the development of our economic and social system, as a Group of Autonomouss - thanks also to the joint work, teamwork, with colleagues of linguistic minorities in the House - we appreciate that there has been a significant consensus on the part of the Government to a wide range of proposals that we have put forward, that have been accepted and that represent a concrete and not episodic response to the needs of our territories. The confirmation in the bill of stability of the financial agreement, defined and signed a year ago between the autonomous provinces of Trento and Bolzano and the Government, is another point that we consider essential. It is the confirmation that the Renzi Government is a serious, concrete Government and that the promises also follow the facts. We thank, in particular, Deputy Minister Morando who has followed with great skill the works, not only the Senate but also the Chamber, submitting in the last weeks to a real tour de force. A special thanks also goes to the President of the Budget Commission Giorgio Tonini and to the two rapporteurs, Magda Zanoni and Federica Chiavaroli, who, in our opinion, have done a very excellent job. I therefore declare the Group's vote in favour of the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u127	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, what I think of the budgetary maneuver I made in general debate, when I also said exactly what our behaviour would have been if we had been able to examine the amendments, open the debate for the illustration of the amendments, and then get to the vote without closing the debate on the financial maneuver with a vote of confidence. But since it is a matter of giving a vote of confidence to the Government on the basis of the financial maneuver, the reasons for the vote against to some extent change: they are not alone and exclusively thought about the merit of this maneuver but are more generally reasoned on the times we live and the answers that the Government gives to a country that is certainly in suffering and that lives suffering in a different way from region to region, from social condition and social condition, from human condition to human condition, if it is, that is, a young man or a woman, if instead, it is a great entrepreneur rather than a respected and feared boiard of state. Suffering, when there is, is lived in a way and with different intensity from person to person and there are, in this country, categories and subjects that suffering do not know what it means. Therefore we must have, in financial maneuver as in every act of government, since the complexity of the problems we face are known by all of us, a capacity for articulation of interventions that takes into account such suffering and its diversity from person to person and that does not privilege those who are already privileged. There are some issues that concern, for example, the credit situation, on which I spoke in the Budget Committee, and which I propose here in the House because your President is present: let us have a specific debate on how savings should be managed in this country, respecting the Community constraints but guaranteeing savers and improving the quality of the service that credit must render to the company and to the country. In fact you cannot intervene in every crac of the single bank with an ad hoc decree, you have to have an idea of how the credit must work in this country in order to be useful. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] When these reasonings are dismissed from other stands - which are inspired by who knows what idea of socialism - with some insult to these benches means that nothing has been understood and above all that it has not been understood that that world is a finite world, that has no prospects. I think we must be honest, all of us, and we also strive to be honest in critical considerations. We have and I have the pleasure - I say that even, it is well known, I have taken some politically more "responsible" position - to see that there are young ministers who take responsibility for the government of the country. I hope that they are not the same as old ministers, who have irresponsibly managed this country, and actually represent a change. And I have respect, consideration, and sympathy. But one cannot liquidate the observations that are born here, that are present in the country and are expressions of young administrators engaged in the border, that tell of a difficult reality on the economic, social, institutional and democratic plans. It is not always possible to liquidate what comes and which is envisaged in a civil discussion with a vote of confidence: either you believe it or you do not believe it. These young ministers risk, unfortunately, acquiring old vows of trust, very opportunistic, unconvinced, which represent the main mine for their own future and that of the country. They must listen more to the criticisms that make sense. They must listen more to what comes from the country, to the many young administrators who do not do ministers, but are in cities and municipalities. They must listen to young workers looking for work, young students who aspire to acquire a degree that is expendable for their future. And they must not reason as those who preceded them reasoned, because they are a hope, if they want to be. We cannot give a yes to this financial manoeuvre, because it tastes like mold: some tax cuts, an old policy. We will be able to give a yes when there is an idea, an overall project for this country, which gives justice to both the North and the South, whether it is youthful suffering, rather than the loneliness of the elderly; an overall response capacity that takes into account the complexity that must be governed. We will be able to give a yes when we accept to make the difference between what a culture of government that has failed and has contributed, much and not little, to bring the country into the present condition of difficulty and a culture of government of the country that, on the other hand, is ripening, even in a sort of unity of intent that is recorded more on the periphery than at the centre of the progressive democratic forces and that looks to the future of the country within the future of Europe and the world, where what counts is a new moral, the one that respects the natural environment where we live, the one that respects every man and every woman in his rights, the one that respects the democratic institutions and the difficult processes of choice, which are not replaceable. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators Bocchino and Caleo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u130	Mr Azzollini (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at this stage we must now look at the financial system as we have seen from the reading of the other branch of Parliament. On the financial system as it had entered Parliament and therefore at the Senate, we already spoke at first reading; as we spoke about the work done in the Senate during the adoption of this law of stability, at first reading. We already said then what the positive elements were, in particular, on the tax side, I quote the abolition of TASI on the first house and, for companies, the revision of the tax on so-called bolted, which is a serious problem for Italian companies, then I quote a number of other measures, including, in particular, the decontribution on new recruits, albeit to a lesser extent than in the previous year and - many have not, but I like to remember very much - an important stakeout for innovative medicines, which today constitute one of the greatest hopes for women and men in our country. This is a measure which, incredibly, has not been reported with the necessary relevance. As far as the measures that come to us today from the Chamber of Deputies are concerned, I have read as usual the newspaper boatos - I think that is what is said in Spanish - about the small measures contained in the measure. It has to be said that sometimes small measures are used to solve the problems of a given territory, and this is not only not bad, but good. But it must also be said that they need to be better organised, because aesthetically it is not good to include in the law of stability a series of small measures that can be approved, instead, in administrative measures deriving from a stake in the law of stability and well calibrated on the needs of the territory. As usual, however, these boatos do not realize some fundamental norms approved by the Chamber of Deputies, which seem to me to improve the establishment of the law of stability. The first, which also for geographical reasons is at my heart, is the whole of the measures for the Mezzogiorno of Italy. During the proceedings in the Chamber of Deputies, not only the measures relating to the tax credit for businesses, which have a four-year duration, thus allowing better planning of investments for businesses, but also an increase in the so-called decontribution for new recruits. Thus, in the Mezzogiorno of Italy, conditions are recreated in order to try to increase at the same time the competitiveness of the enterprises in relation to the other areas of Italy and the average productivity of the same and of the entire national plant. This is the most important novelty of the financial maneuver, as it comes to us from the House of Deputies. I repeat another important remark, recalling that this tax credit is also calibrated on the size of the enterprise, for which small enterprises are allocated a contribution of 20% of the investment, for the averages of 15% and for the large of 10%, so as to have ample space, necessary for small and medium-sized enterprises, which - as is well known - in the Mezzogiorno of Italy constitute the backbone of the business system. This is, therefore, an effort to restore competitiveness in the areas of the country that today suffer the most: this is the basic point. Not by noticing these measures, which even in financial terms are not insignificant, because they are in the order of EUR billion, it seems to me that we do not give precise information to the citizens. We look at small things and not these rules which, with the help of other circumstances, can certainly restart the path of growth, in a very difficult situation, such as the one that has been created in recent months, for the reasons that we all know. Equally important is the sustained effort for the security of the country, in particular with important economic measures, in favour of the Forces of Order. Are these measures few, are they bad or are they poorly distributed? Everything is perfect, but certainly those measures are present and constitute a significant stakeout of sums for those men and women who, at this moment, are engaged in the heavy task of ensuring the safety of the country, in its phase of both prevention and - excuse the word, but I had prepared - of compliance with people, to try to make it safer on the streets. These, Madam President, are the great measures that are connoting this bill of stability. I conclude quickly by saying that at this moment there is only one measure that I personally do not see strongly favorable: I am referring to the money given to eighteen years old without merit criteria, but the law is measured as a whole and as a whole - as I said - is largely positive. In the same way, Madam President, thanks to the effort made for growth, I am sure that in 2016 the Government will pay particular attention to measures to reduce public expenditure or in any case to cover the spending laws that, from now on, deserve a very timely consideration. For these reasons, which see to a large extent the improvement of the measure over work, already positive for us, made in the Senate, my Group votes in favour of the adoption of the bill of stability. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u133	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Madam President, we were waiting for the government and the majority in this fundamental step, following the very serious events in Paris. After the robust declarations of intent made hot by the Government, with which it was said that it would be broken with interventions in the Chamber aimed at guaranteeing the security of the citizens and of the country, we must find, unfortunately, that this appointment has been missed; indeed, worse, the appointment to face the crisis of terrorism has been used in a vile way. He's given jackals to someone, but the jackals, dear government, are the ones who take advantage of the misfortunes to do business, and here, in this law, business is done. This is not a law of stability, ladies and gentlemen, but the old financial manger where everyone finds crumbs for someone and where there is nothing for the safety of citizens. In fact, of the 2 billion previewed deficit - this is a law of instability, not of stability - a billion is destined to the defense, but - attention - for the defense and not to strengthen the security system of the Forces of the order in our country. A good part is used to give 80 euros, one-off, as if it were a tip, offending citizens in uniform, defending our security and who for years have been demanding what is due to them by law. And what do you give him? An electoral tip of 80 euros a month. A shame! But there are more serious things inside that billion euros in defense. Let's see them. To us - for example - 245 million jump to the eye, whose use is not well specified and which is put back to a decree of the Presidency of the Council, which provides for the strengthening of the systems of intervention of the special forces and of the forces for special operations in the entire domain of terrestrial, marine, aerial and space action. Do you know what this means? We are giving the government the power to use EUR 245 million out of Parliament's control to project our military forces into scenarios outside our country. We want, as a 5 Star Movement, the government to tell us what war it is arming with that money. We want to know if the 245 million is the advance to invade Libya without going through Parliament. And then, ladies and gentlemen, always in that billion euro, of which nothing goes to the Forces of the Order - I say that they even have the tortured ammunition, bought in the countries of the East, and not working; the stopped machines; they have no training, staff turnover - what is expected? Is it planned to give 150 million for cyberwar, cybersecurity? Who do we want to wage war with? To the Net, where this government and the majority are defeated and losers? Woe if anyone can think only for a moment of using these funds to subvert the popular will and fight the oppositions that are very strong on the Net. Woe if anyone thought of this, because in our country we have seen this and more. And funds out of control make us fear the worst. And then there is the masterpiece: a billion euros of funds to ensure the security of the country given for culture? Culture. Half the resources to tip 18-year-olds? Dear Government, if you think you just have to buy the 18-year-old vote - and you won't buy it - know that it won't be enough, because you won't be able to buy the vote of all Italians, of 60 million Italians who don't want to see these things anymore. This is an unworthy law. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The other 500 million of the 2 billion for security are rain tips, as if distributing one million here and 20 million euros there to the usual friends guarantee the safety of our citizens. Do you intend to face the security of our citizens put at risk every day by the lack of controls, by the withdrawal on the territory of the Forces of the Order? Is that what you're up to? So you intend to ensure the safety of citizens? No, gentlemen of the government, you so desperately try to buy and guarantee your safety, but you won't, because you won't have enough money that you can put against the millions of citizens who want to send you home. And why do they want to send you home? There are 19 billion cuts that weigh on Italian citizens: 19 billion cuts in four years on health will weigh on all citizens, on the weakest, those who are sick and need to resort to health care, which they will not find. Here there are an additional 2.4 in the immediate and, in total, 4.5 billion in recent months, a madness. We are preparing and arming wars against those who and we leave our citizens without health protection, because hospitals are closing because they are in difficulty; because - as the Minister has done - we must tell them to buy medicines and antibiotics. This was able to say a Minister. No, colleagues, this law is a cross that you are throwing on citizens. After you devastated the school, what did you even predict? The funds for private school institutions, prohibited by the Constitution, become stable, will no longer have to be foreseen in the years to come and even here you are wrong, so that you do not think long-term. We're here in the long run and not you. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u134	Quiet, senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u135	GIARRUSSO (M5S). And I can only remember two last demands made by the citizens. Citizens have called for protection for ludopathy, the grave misfortune that is hitting millions of Italians. You couldn't do that either. In fact, you were able to strike the most virtuous municipalities by putting laces on those who fought against ludopathy. And then for the umpteenth time, the cry of 23,000 exodus remained unheard in these classrooms. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Prevent hundreds of thousands of euros for your wars and nothing for our citizens cheated by your laws. That is why we will not vote on your law. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u138	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with a few numbers that give us the perimeter of the maneuver. It is worth 36,932 billion in 2016, 35,244 billion in 2017, 33,691 billion in 2018. There will be an additional deficit of 18,272 billion in 2016, 20,785 in 2017 and 17,406 in 2018. The deficit / GDP ratio settles above 2.4 percent, including the so-called migrant clause (it was 2.2 after the Senate examination). The maximum level of the net balance to be financed rises to 35,4 billion in 2016. The increase in current expenditure - another interesting figure - is 15,942 billion in 2016, 12,978 billion in 2017, 11,648 billion in 2018. As a result, Italians will have to pay higher taxes for a total of 27.8 billion in the three-year period 2016-2018. According to government forecasts, GDP growth will be 1.5% for 2016; according to Confindustria 1.4%; according to IMF and Fitch 1.3%; for Standard&Poor's and Moody's 1.2%. This is the picture of the numbers that gives us the figure of the moment that Italy lives in relations with its accounts. It was the year 2009 and then Minister Tremonti compared the financial law to a horror film that he no longer wanted to project, transforming the same financial law into a law of stability. Localistic and micro-sectoral standards should no longer have appeared in the law of stability. In 2015 we have to note that the intentions of that time have become a pious illusion. This year the law of stability of the Renzi government is starting to climb on the podium, conquering one of the first places in the ideal ranking of the most massive financial laws, although having little expansion. It is, in fact, made up of 993 paragraphs and in that ideal ranking I was talking about before it is just behind that of the second Prodi Government, which had 1,364 paragraphs. It is an infernal creature, which comes out more of a series of exhausting negotiations than of a parliamentary Commission. Let us see in detail some of the fruits of the exhausting negotiations: 500 euros to eighteen (criticized by most of my colleagues who have heard an explanation of vote); 9 million for the Municipality of Campione d'Italia; 20 million for the air connections with Sicily; 15 million for the fund on the mountain; 10 million, inevitable, for the Olympic Committee of Rome; 1.000 euro one-off for the purchase of musical instruments by students enrolled in conservatives. Then there are further sprayings, with even more sectoral interventions: one million at the Italian Alpine Club, 300,000 euros to the company Dante Alighieri, funds for festivals, choirs and bands and still funds for the MAXXI museum. As far as security is concerned, some of the funds derive from the increase in the deficit from 2.2 to 2.4 percent and are broken down as follows: 150 million euros to counter cybercrime; 50 million euros for the equipment of the Forces of the Order; 35 million euros for the recruitment of Police, Carabinieri and Guardia di Finanza; 300 million euros for the bonus of 80 euros per month for the year 2016 alone for women and men of the Forces of the Order, which however will have no reflection in the pension calculation and, therefore, are worth little. Therefore, in the light of the international framework, it does not seem to us as a whole to be an effective response to the security demand that citizens are addressing us. Among the worrying aspects in some cases and negative in others should be highlighted: the intervention for the South, which we had not been able to deal with in the Senate and which finds an insufficient response in the tax credit; as regards banks, the insufficient action put in place for the protection of savers, with the safeguard clauses defused for 2016 only and unfortunately postponed to the years ahead, for a value - be careful - of about 55 billion euros in the three years 2017-2018-2019; the maximum use of flexibility, without having the certainty of the consent of the European Union. Finally, I quote the lightening of the IRES planned for 2016, which we all welcomed, which slides to next year. There are certainly few positive things: well the abolition of TASI, well the increase of the roof on cash to 3,000 euros, well the advance of the no tax area for pensioners and, ultimately, the tax credit provided for those who install video surveillance systems (proposed here to the Senate and resumed at a later moment in the Chamber). It is worth repeating that these ideas have always been expressed and strongly supported by Forza Italia. So, we definitely have some credit for that. To conclude, we are in principle in favour of a maneuver in debt, if it really underlies an expansive maneuver, which focuses on targeted interventions that contribute to the country's structural recovery: therefore, a financial maneuver that focuses on issues relevant to the recovery. We are strongly opposed to this law of stability which, with all the rain interventions it contains, fails to represent a real turning point for the country, losing itself in the rivulets of unevenness and micro-sectorality. There are no interventions that have a multiplier of public-private investment or any leverage effect of the resources employed, able to support concretely the growth of our GDP. Forza Italia supports an elementary recipe, but has always been effective. In order to promote recovery, it is necessary: for businesses, to reduce taxes in order to induce them to invest; for citizens, to reduce taxes in order to stimulate domestic consumption; for the whole country, to promote the sburocratization and the simplification of the norms and to adopt a serious and targeted revision of the public expenditure, great absent in this maneuver. In the light of the considerations set out above, the Forza Italia Group cannot give confidence to this Government, which demonstrates, day after day, that it is not able to govern such a delicate moment. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u139	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u141	SANTINI (PD). Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the two readings of the stability bill have confirmed, on the one hand, the initial expansionary and supportive approach and, at the same time, strengthened it with important new measures. For a large part it was a work shared between the Senate and the House, to which was added the necessary intervention on security after 13 November and the serious facts of Paris. However, the fundamental aspects of the stability bill remain very clear. I am referring to the reduction in taxation, achieved by deactivating the safeguard clauses, with significant positive effects for families and businesses, resulting from the abolition of the tax on the first house, the bolted and the agricultural IMU. I am also referring to support for investment in the private sector, with maximum depreciation, as well as in the public sector, with the obligation to carry out in 2016 the 5 billion resulting from the use of budgetary flexibility and the release of investments for local authorities with the progressive overcoming of the Stability Pact. I quote support for employment, with 40% decontribution confirmed for the next two years, with stronger intervention in the South, in critical areas, with the strengthening of the multi-annual tax credit for investments and with the possibility, also for 2017, of extending the decontribution on new recruits. There is also a qualified intervention in the field of local authorities, not only on municipalities, but also on former Provinces and large areas, which see more adequate support for the fundamental functions they maintain (schools and roads), and for the regions, to which budgetary policy has been made sustainable in the coming year, in particular with important interventions on health. Finally, there is a significant social policy, which confirmed the substantial poverty reduction fund for 2016 and 2017, to which many disability interventions have been added, an important measure to reduce pension taxation and an extension of contractual welfare. In addition to this, there have been interventions on security, with the courageous choice to combine the necessary provisions for the Forces of Order, for defence, for organizational strengthening, also original measures for culture, especially for young people and for overcoming the degradation of the suburbs. Then there was the question of banks (another emergency) with the necessary rescue of the four banks by 31 December, averting disastrous consequences on the deposits of one million citizens, on business trusts, on jobs. The Solidarity Fund approved, also because of its quantitative dimensions, allows a concrete refreshment to those subordinated bondholders who had been the victim of fraud. In the debate, criticism was voiced of the choice made by this bill of stability to use all the margins of flexibility, exposing the country - according to these criticisms - to a future risk of budgetary restraint. We believe that maintaining the expansionary approach of the stability bill at a time when the international economy is slowing down and, at the same time, facing the emergency of security has made this choice even more necessary, which has already been authorised by Parliament. It is a choice to make 2016 a year of consolidation of growth, to continue to create jobs, defeat unemployment and poverty; a choice for a country that wants not to go back, but to continue the recovery after the great crisis, keeping together growth and solidarity and giving a concrete and conscious dimension also to hope. For these reasons, the Democratic Party Group will vote for confidence in the bill of stability. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u142	I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. I therefore call for a roll-call vote on the single article of bill No 2111-B, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on which the Government has put the question of trust. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Gentile is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Gentile. PEGORER, secretary, makes the appeal. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre, Azzollini Battista, Bencini, Berger, Bertuzzi, Bianconi, Bonaiuti, Borioli, Broglia, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Casini, Cassano, Casson, Cattaneo, Chiavaroli, Chiti, Cirinna, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Conte, Corsini, Cucca, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, Davico, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biappi, Finocchiaro, Di Giacomo, Fissori, Forghi, Forni Franizio Giuseppi, Fassiolo, Fattorini, Ferrara Elena, Filippino, Filippino, Filippino, Filippino, Filippino, Fin, Fini, Fini, Fini, Fini There are no senators: Airola, Alicata, Amoruso, Archeri, Arrigoni, Augello, Auricchio Barani, Barozzino, Bellot, Bernini, Bertorotta, Bignami, Bisinella, Blund, Bocca, Boccardi, Bocchino, Bonfrisco, Bottici, Bruni, Buccarella, Comagna, Compagnone, Conti, Cotti, Crimi, Crosio D'Alì, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, D'Anna, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Gasheti Gin, Di Maggio, Divina, Donno Endrizzi Falanga, Fasano, Fattori, Fazzone, Fazzone, Ferraragni, Mario Mario, De Petrisso, De Gasheti Gin, Divina, Donno Endrizzi Falanga, Fasano I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the single article of bill No. 2111-B, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on which the Government put the question of trust: [[Senators present 287 Senators voting 287 Majority 144 Favorables 162 Contrari 125]] The Senate approves. It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the single article of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u143	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 2112-B as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u144	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1880-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that the final explanations of vote took place at the sitting on 17 December and that there was no quorum on the vote on the proposal for coordination C1. As this proposal for coordination has been withdrawn, I put the draft law to the vote as a whole. It's approved. [[Brusio.]] Colleagues, congratulations can also be made outside the Chamber. Meanwhile, as a Presidency, I wish everyone a merry Christmas and a happy new year.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u147	GIROTTO (M5S). Collegi, last November on "Il Gazzettino" was reported the news that the boards of directors of the associations of reclamation of the Polesine Delta del Po and Adige Po, have gathered to say no to the hypothesis of exploitation of methane deposits both at sea, and on land still. The decision was formalized with the joint approval of an agenda in which institutions, associations and citizens were invited to support the opposition to an exploitation project that would bring economic benefits to a few entrepreneurs, going to undermine the hydraulic safety of the territories by greatly increasing their management costs and, in some cases, abandoning these areas with the obvious social and environmental consequences. Already with its decree of 1999 concerning the development project High Adriatic, the Minister of the Environment had established that the activity of cultivation of liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons within 12 nautical miles from the coast line of the sea stretch between the parallel passing through the mouth of the Tagliamento river and the parallel passing through the mouth of the Goro branch of the Po River is prohibited, precisely in order to avoid that the consequences of the subsidenza, caused by the extractions of hydrocarbons, would endanger the hydraulic safety of urban and agricultural areas, with failure of the margins to the sea and the terminal sections of the rivers and with ulterior lowerings of the territory behind. The induced subsidence is a geological phenomenon whose trigger is directly attributable to anthropic factors, when, due to the extraction of water, oil or gas in the ground, the fluids present between the sedimentary layers of the subsoil are discharged and this involves a significant settling also for the surface ground. Activities of this kind between the provinces of Padua, Venice and Rovigo have historically determined a progressive and inexorable lowering of the country plan. From the 1930s and until the suspension decided by the Government in 1961 were extracted in the territory of the Po delta billions of cubic meters of methane and natural gas. Only from 1951 to 1960 average ground drops of 1 meter were measured, with peaks of 2 meters; despite the suspension of extractions from 1961, the territory continued to fall in the following fifteen years. From the beginning of the fifties to the mid-seventies, the territory fell by an average of more than 2 meters, up to peaks of 3.5 meters. However, the end of that parenthesis of drilling has only slowed down the phenomenon, which, in addition to the sinking, also causes a further serious side effect for the soil: salinization, which, with the concomitant rise in the sea due to climatic variations, results in a process of salt contamination of the land, with serious damage to the agricultural crops, so as to even reach the risk of desertification. [[Brusio.]] I am sorry that colleagues are not interested in desertification, which involves 20% of the territory; but obviously 20% of Italy is not a sufficient figure for colleagues to pay attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u148	You have to finish, Senator Girotto. He's already spoken four minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u149	GIROTTO (M5S). I'm done, Mr. President. These dangers concern a vast belt of plains, in addition to the Po Delta: it is the area between the southern edge of the Venice lagoon and the Adige river. We feel in this case the need to put ourselves at the side of the consortia and to strongly support their requests to stop the drills at sea and on land. We therefore appeal to the Government to listen to the requests that come from the territories and stop all mining activities, bearing in mind that we already have solutions for an energy conversion for the good of health, the environment, the economy and for the protection of the beauties of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u150	I'm asking to talk. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u152	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I too wish my fellow Members every success, who are continuing to do so here in this House. Take them out, or else listen to my speech. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Yeah, because they're all better at Christmas, but obviously there's no merit here...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u153	Goodness must apply to you, too, Senator Airola.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u154	AIROLA (M5S). I can't be good in Parliament; I can't be good outside. In this respect, I would like to remind you that work is suspended for a while, but the problems continue. In Turin we have the Museo del cinema, where it seems that today it has been reconfirmed as artistic director (we still don't know) Alberto Barbera, who is a multi-seater, because he is also director in Venice. Since in Turin there was little, because he was always around, he left all the administration to his secretariat and his secretary, also she consultant, also with delegation to do all the administrative work on accounts that the Museum of the cinema continues to hide and that are probably a big hole. So first of all I would like to remind you of the intervention of our Councilwoman Chiara Appandino, who asked Mayor Fassino for some transparency. You have turned culture into an essential public service; well, now it is time to watch. Second thing: can we appoint an artistic director of the festival in Turin, which is an excellent festival, that is not the same as in Venice? Can we maybe give some new young people some space? I think it's important, especially since this gentleman is also retiring, so now we're gonna give him another advice. If it is true that there is an international ban for a new administrative director, at least that he is a person who makes transparency and tells us if it is true that there are hundreds of thousands of euro holes at the Museum of Cinema, which the other day was also the victim of an alleged bomb. And we must thank the workers of the REAR (always those of Laus) who, despite the three euros per hour, have evacuated Mole with the due expertise. Also in this regard it must be remembered that neither Barbera nor other directors have ever solved this slavery that insists in the Museo del cinema e del Torino Film Festival. So transparency, new appointments, enough with the multi-seaters and we try to revive culture really, with competent people who don't have a thousand commitments around the world. Thank you and best wishes to all. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u155	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u157	PUPPATE (PD). Mr President, we seem like the irreducible, since we want to speak at the end of the last sitting of this long year of work, but I believe that the reason why I speak is sacrosanct. The reason is precisely the marathon that we are trying to make with many colleagues of the intergroup for the biological will, but also with those who are not yet part of it. In fact, I believe that for the Senate 2016 must start not only with the bill on civil unions, but also with the will to fill, with the same fervour, the gap existing between our and other countries with respect to two other issues, of which a very important one concerning the biological will. Two draft laws have already been presented on the subject, so we want to discuss the biological will because we believe it is an individual right of each one to decide how to live, but above all how to die. This is dignity, we are reminded of it every day in the newspapers. Max Fanelli, in his condition as a serious ALS patient, reminds us that he wants to die knowing that the Senate has succeeded in approving a law of great dignity for the Italian people, so that people can actually have this right and exercise it openly, in their own country, in full respect for their own person. Going back to Max Fanelli's sacred words, I say: "I'm with Max," we're with Max. We will therefore do this marathon every day of 2016 until this bill is scheduled in the Chamber. Like him, I say: if you want to decide about my life, you must also take my illness. Since this is not the case, we want the bill on biological will to be discussed in this House and to guarantee everyone. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u158	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u160	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI, Id)). Mr President, my very brief speech has the sole purpose of echoing the complaints and discomfort expressed by the staff of the State Police who are living in the Senate. This uneasiness, which some of their trade union organisations have shown, is right in a decision of the Presidency Council, which provides for the obligation to wear the uniform in service. This decision, on the one hand, shows itself to be superfluous in terms of making people in uniform apparent within a structure already under military control and, on the other hand, creates concerns and problems of an organizational nature for the same staff. Mine therefore wants to be an invitation to the Presidency Council to review the nature of this decision quickly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u161	Senator Mauro, the invitation must be addressed to the Security Committee of the Senate of the Republic, as the Presidency Council has not been involved in this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u162	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u164	RICHIUTI (PD). Mr President, I have just put a question to the Foreign Minister on a fact which I regard as truly demeaning and no longer scandalous. It is precisely in Spain, which has given us a positive political and electoral ferment these days with the left-wing forces that have recorded more than 40% of the votes and an agenda that is contrary to austerity, that is a very serious fact. Coca Cola, a globalized company for decades that is no longer just a commercial brand, but a sort of icon of cultural hegemony, allows itself to be associated with a chain of restaurants that celebrates the Mafia. The association consists of saying a common prize: who buys a can of Coca Cola in a restaurant Â La Mafia if you sit at the mesa Â Â participates in the competition that has as a prize a trip to the places of Â Â The Godfather Â Â, that is to say in Sicily. Once again Sicily is associated with the Mafia and the Mafia is seen as a brand of success and profit. It is an insulting fact and I would like the Foreign Minister not to reply to me bureaucratically as he did the last time I raised the problem. [[Applause from Senator Albano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u165	I'll be curious to read the answer, too, because it's really interesting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u166	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-556.ana.u167	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 12 January 2016, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 537 p.m.
