ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 10 September.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u10	Stitches (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to speak on the order of business in order to inform you and the House that this morning the parliamentary groups of the League of Houses and Senate have gone to the Ministry of Economics and Finance to stress once again the drama of the problem of exodus, which - alas - does not find answers in this Government, like many other real problems that grip the lives of so many tens of thousands of citizens. Even in the responses received this morning by the Undersecretary Baretta, there was no desire to put an end to genuine discrimination against certain age groups of workers. Perhaps these workers are wrong to have been born in those years or not to have sufficient personal contributions, thus being unable to access what is a legitimate right, i.e. the pension. Faced with the wrong choices of the government, made with the Fornero law, the Government first read and the Renzi government then did not know how to give those answers that the citizens instead expect. It's a matter of social justice. Together with us there were also representatives of the unions. I believe that it is urgent that the government should identify these responses in the next law of stability, because time is running out. We have also made an occupation of the most important hall of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the so-called blue room, just to testify that on the issue we are not available to joke: you can not play on the skin of the workers, especially those in difficulty. I remember that exodus are people who no longer have the job, who do not have an income, who do not have the opportunity to be reinstated again and who find themselves, as it were, "caught" by an incomprehensible regulatory choice. In words it is said that these answers must come and that they are absolutely duty-free, but in practice we see that then a concrete gesture does not correspond to the regulatory level. I believe that the League is right to bear witness to this attention to the workers and that all of us as parliamentarians, close to the needs of the citizens, must work to remedy this situation. We expect the Government to do something and, in order to make sense of our protest, we believe that there should also be a statement by the House on such an important issue, with an act of binding direction towards the Government. It is necessary that the protest that has been made at the MEF has a further echo within the parliamentary classrooms, as was done earlier in the House, because we believe that the more we talk about it, the more the government should be in a position to feel bound to give answers. It is for this reason that we strongly ask the Government, in the law of stability, to be resolved once and for all the question of exodus, because this is a problem created by this majority, but which concerns citizens who vote for all political parties and who ask us to give positive answers to their request for a future of tranquility and serenity, which we all owe to them after a life of work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u11	The presidency, in front of what you said, will inform the government... (Some Senators of the LN-Aut Group occupy the benches of the Government and display signs with the inscription "We abolish the Fornero law." The people want it. I would ask the House, please, to adopt appropriate attitudes to this House. (Parliamentary assistants try to get Senator Crosio and other Senators of the LN-Aut Group away from the government benches.) Senator Crosio, please don't let him take away like this. (The Senators Arrigoni, Centinario, Comaroli, Council, Crosio, Stefani and Tosato remain seated at the benches of the Government). The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 16.39 p.m. and resumed at 4.52 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u14	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking on the subject of Rule 104 of our Rules of Procedure. I come from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where we have learned that President Finocchiaro has taken a line on the admissibility of amendments to constitutional reform. What did he say, basically? That, in the absence of an agreement between the political forces, you must apply the Rules of Procedure to the letter, thereby establishing that amendments which do not directly affect the modified parts of the House would be inadmissible. Now, from our point of view, this is a partial, filtered reading, because Article 104 - let's perhaps explain it to the citizens, if they are listening - on the one hand states that the Senate must limit its analysis and the amending phase to the modified parts of the House, in order to avoid an infinite remake of changes between the House and the Senate, then gradually limit the perimeter on which it is considering, on the other hand, however, the same article states that the amendments that with those modified parts are closely related can be taken into consideration. In this sense, the article recovers another fundamental value, namely the fact that, by simply restricting it with a mechanistic progression, Parliament's prerogative to revise and reconsider new balances, even outside the strictly modified part, is not lost in sight, but that it could give meaning, functionality and organicity from the legal point of view, thus respecting - I said - the prerogatives of Parliament and Members. On the other hand, precisely the fact of leaving room for changes of related parties opens the possibility of reaching that political agreement, perhaps by different ways, not focusing and radicalizing the clash on that point. This is defined, in other words, to use lateral thinking and to develop that ability to find new and effective solutions. I would have expected that, by using these two parts of Article 104, which balances two principles, the President would have discerned among the amendments those which actually had a nature of escamotage and did not go on to propose effective legal and constitutional solutions, i.e. in any case compatible with the Constitution at least with the fundamental principles. At this point, there is a doubt that an iter is being forced for the interests of a political party. Madam President, I would remind you that we have had to amend in the dark for as long as we were allowed. We had previously asked for a ruling on the scope of amendmentability of the text that came from the House and was not allowed: we had to amend it in the dark, without knowing. So someone kept a reservation to decide what would happen. What happened, perhaps? Did they get scared of the 500,000 amendments of the League? We cannot bend a general principle to a contingent situation. I have said in other circumstances that the League is the best friend of the kangaroo and I realize this subtle game of provocations that is in place, but we have tabled 200 amendments, all of which are substantive, positive, prosthetic on the one hand to overcome the perfect bicameralism and therefore in favour of more streamlined parliamentary work, but on the other hand we have a system that respects the representativeness, the functions of Parliament and the need to take away the control of constitutional bodies from a single party or even from a single party secretary. I'm going to conclude. We do not need to know in time, we do not need to amend in the light of a principle that has been stated, and today we even want to make progress, the process of this reform in this House through an alternative: either an agreement between the leaders of the groups (not even the Commission's leaders, as if the Commission were an unnecessary burden), or - God forbid - by means of a vote of confidence, which has already been largely ventilated. All this must be resolved and there is only one way, which my colleague, Mr Crimi, had invoked before the summer break, namely the clear pronunciation of the Council for the Rules of Procedure. We are still waiting to know how the Junta will pronounce itself on the principles of that time. We know that there are also precedents, but we are waiting for the Junta to finally say what the status of democracy is in these classrooms. We are forced to do so in retrospect, after a statement by the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that does not convince us at all. And before we arrive at stages in which relations become stiff and tension is fed, we want everyone here, starting from the first responsibilities (first of all those of the President of the Senate, then those of the Junta and also of the Leaders), to assume the responsibility to define for a long time what the relationships we can count on. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Endrizzi, I'll report to the President of the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u15	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1917, already approved by the House of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of the Cirielli and others. Durants and others; Carnations and others; Artines and others. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteurs whether they intend to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u16	Madam President, this measure, which contains the provisions concerning Italy's participation in international missions, approved by the House of Deputies, has an ambitious objective: to provide a unified regulatory framework for sending Italian quotas abroad within the framework of the UN missions and other organisations to which Italy participates, primarily NATO and the European Union. The bill covers all types of missions that have gradually been defined over the last few years, from peacekeeping (peacekeeping) to peace enforcement (peace enforcement) to humanitarian interventions. The measure in question calls for a legal vacuum to be filled in our legal system. As is well known, the Italian Constitution does not contain any predictions governing the use of the military instrument abroad, with the exception of the provisions on the state of war. Not even at the legislative level, beyond some of the provisions of principle contained in the law on the ordering of the Armed Forces, there is no organic discipline, neither with regard to the authorisation procedure, nor with regard to the economic and regulatory treatment of the personnel engaged. The consequence, as we all know, is that today the legal framework for participation in missions is essentially defined by the instrument of the decree-law. This involves a temporary and disorganic dispositions, especially those of the order, and a great precariousness, also from the financial point of view, of the missions, characteristics that certainly do not benefit the needs of operational planning and international credibility of the country. The need for an organic law in this area is widely shared. It must be stressed that the bill is a parliamentary initiative and that the House has been approved without any votes against. Wide consensus that was also evident during the examination by the Commissions gathered in the contact person. Italy's participation in international missions has been, over the last thirty years, one of the qualifying components of our foreign policy. This was and is a costly but essential commitment, both because we have contributed to important stabilisation results in many parts of the world and because we have improved our military instrument, with training and strengthening of the operational component. With the missions our country has then improved its international image, also because over the years it has defined itself as an "Italian model" of peacekeeping, starting from the mission in Lebanon in 1982 and then with the missions in Albania, Somalia, Mozambique - without forgetting the interventions in Bosnia-Herzegovina, Afghanistan and Iraq - and then again in Lebanon, which is perhaps the most successful example of our external projection. Our armed forces are particularly appreciated - as President Latorre will say - not only for military capabilities, but also for the way in which the missions are conducted, marked by a strong impartiality between the parties involved and by a particular attention and sensitivity to the needs of the civilian population and to the humanitarian aspects. By way of example, we have made the cooperation element increasingly important. Stressing these successes does not mean denying that something can and must be changed, even in view of the new framework of global crises and the economic crisis, which forces us to select more rigorously our commitments. From now on, it will be a matter of evaluating in a more strategic way the modalities and above all the regional areas in our participation in the missions, focusing our attention on the Mediterranean. From this point of view too, the measure we are debating is important, because it provides a number of instruments for better planning of interventions. President Latorre will describe the aspects that concern the armed forces most directly; I summarize briefly the forecasts on the authorization and financing of the missions, from Article 1 to Article 4. Article 1 defines the scope of the measure and the general principles underlying it. Firstly, there is obviously the reference to Article 11 of the Constitution and to respect for international law. As regards the scope, the measure concerns both the participation of the Armed Forces and the Police, and the dispatch of personnel and facilities, civil and military, outside the national territory. Article 1 also refers to the possible participation in the missions of civil peace bodies. It is a contingent established experimentally, following the example of many countries, with the law of stability for 2014. The body, being trained, is composed of 500 young volunteers in the national civil service, to be employed abroad in peace actions or in cases of environmental emergencies. Paragraph 3 provides that, within the framework of its participation in the missions, Italy will take all possible initiatives to enhance the role of women in the construction of peace and international security, in line with the resolutions of the UN Security Council and the National Action Plan on Women, Peace and Security 2014-2016. Article 2 lays down the procedure to be followed for the authorisation of missions and for their financing. The first step is represented by the decision of the Council of Ministers, adopted after notice to the President of the Republic and possible convocation of the Supreme Council of Defense. Subsequently the resolution must be transmitted to the Chambers, which, as the text states, discuss and authorize it with appropriate acts of direction, possibly defining special commitments for the Government. The communication to Parliament must be very detailed. For each mission, the Government must indicate the geographical area of intervention, the objectives, the legal basis, the composition of the arrangements to be sent, the personnel involved, as well as the planned duration and the financial requirements. Following the approval in the referent of an amendment signed by Senators Pegorer and De Pietro, the criminal law applicable to the individual missions should also be identified. The necessary resources shall be established by a decree of the President of the Council, on a proposal from the Foreign, Defence, Internal and Economic Ministers. These resources are based on a dedicated fund, which is introduced by the law to Article 4. The draft decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, accompanied by an explanatory technical report, shall be forwarded to the parliamentary committees, which shall deliver the opinion within 20 days. So there is a second stage of parliamentary control, this time specifically on the financial aspects. While the overall financial coverage of the missions is therefore ensured by law (in particular by the law of stability, which defines the allocation of the International Mission Fund), the allocation of resources between the various missions is regulated by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers. Paragraph 6 then clarifies that for the continuation of the missions for the following years the refinancing takes place according to the same procedure (i.e. by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers). Article 3 regulates relations between the Government and Parliament at the stage following the initial authorisation of the mission. The Government, on a proposal from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and in agreement with the Minister for Defence, shall submit to the Chambers an annual analytical report on the current missions (including those concluded during the year), specifying their progress and results. The report shall be accompanied by an operational summary document for each mission indicating the duration, location, national and international staff employed, expiry date, updated details. The report also takes into account the assessments made by the Mission Commands on the results of the Italian quotas involved. With this report, the Government also takes into account the state of development cooperation in support of peace and stabilisation processes. The analytical report should also contain indications on the participation of women and the gender approach, with reference to UN Security Council Resolution No 1325 of 2000, cited above. Following the presentation of the report, which must take place by 31 December of each year, the Chambers will hold the discussion and the consequent resolution on the continuation of each mission, on any extensions or modifications of the Italian participation. That is, what the provision calls: Parliamentary session on the progress of authorised missions. This parliamentary session replaces the report which the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Defence, on a four-monthly basis, currently make to the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committees. I would remind you that with regard to this article, an amendment was approved in the referee's office, signed by Senator Pegorer, with the aim of abolishing the fund provided for in Law No 296 of 2006, by bringing its resources to the fund referred to in Article 4 below. Article 4 provides, as mentioned above, for the establishment of a special fund in the MEF estimates. It is important to point out, in particular for the interest of the Foreign Commission, that the resources allocated to development cooperation policies and actions to support the peace and stabilisation processes are also included in this fund. The measure provides that these funds will be used in line with the other cooperation measures carried out by Italy and within the framework of the programming defined according to the new law in the field. Again with regard to development cooperation, I would just add that Article 17 of the measure provides for the figure of the Councillor for civil cooperation of the Italian military commander of the international contingent: it is a diplomat, appointed by decree of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in agreement with the Ministry of Defence, with the task of coordinating humanitarian interventions. This forecast underlines and further strengthens the character of civil cooperation which, as I said at the beginning, has always characterized the Italian approach to missions, as well as the indispensable coordination with the network of our diplomacy. Madam President, I have thus completed my report, which concerns the parts within the competence of the Commission which I chair and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u17	Madam President, I speak very quickly to reiterate and highlight certain aspects, taking into account the division of tasks between myself and President Casini. I understand that, unfortunately, we will not be able to proceed today to vote on the measure that we are about to discuss because the Budget Commission has not yet given its opinion on the amendments. I hope that this debate can therefore be held and concluded tomorrow. This measure is perhaps one of the most important legislative instruments of our foreign and defence policy. President Casini recalled that in the last 30 years our international missions have been essential and he has mentioned the reasons, to which I would like to add another. International missions have greatly improved our country's military instrument because they have been extraordinary training opportunities for our armed forces, as well as an experience that has allowed for a strong operational strengthening. As President Casini recalled, we have practically created an Italian model of peacekeeping. I believe that on these occasions we must never forget to thank our armed forces for what they are doing, which contributes in a way that is not secondary to the international image of our country. Today we are going to establish a legal and regulatory framework that finally gives certainty. In these years we have sailed in greatest precariousness. Many times we have had to chase international missions with decree-laws and - let us be honest - very often our military have been discovered during the missions also from the insurance and economic point of view, as it is clear that the instrument of the decree-law, with its expiry, does not allow a constant and certain coverage. I consider it particularly important to establish a stable and uniform framework which facilitates our work as a Parliament. In fact, whenever we have to discuss the issue of international missions, we do not focus on strategic and political aspects (on which, on the other hand, it would be right for Parliament to dwell), but rather, provisionally and superficially, to pursue the adoption of measures, almost because it is under the time limit that is due to expire. In this measure there is and is defined in an extraordinary balance between the role of the President of the Republic, that of the Government and that of the Parliament. The part that President Casini delegated to my illustration is that concerning the safety of our staff from the economic point of view, pension, insurance and also from the point of view of the risks that our children in those circumstances run, and in fact finally in this norm are better specified the effects consequent also to situations of imprisonment, injury and also - alas - of death. In particular, there is general legislation applicable to international missions that are carried out by personnel belonging to the Armed Forces, the Police Forces and also the civilian members operating in the operating theatres, and this is a non-negligible fact. One last point: in this measure, the concept of an international mission is finally also defined, which has not so far been foreseen, and it is also reiterated that our work, our missions are anchored in our defence policy and the system of international law centered on the United Nations, the main international organisations (including the European Union) established in accordance with it. I would like to conclude by saying that, therefore, the sensitivity and importance of this measure lies precisely in the radicality and importance of the issues it raises and which are involved. I am thinking first of all of the orientation of our defence and security system, of the value of international law and also of when and under what conditions our country can set these mechanisms in motion and intervene in a crisis. It is important that a broad consensus has been reached on this measure in the House: all the parliamentary groups voted in favour, except for the 5 Star Movement, which abstained. I would also like to be a witness in this House of how very constructive and very positive the debate has been in our Commissions. There too, there was a broad consensus, with the exception of the 5 Star Movement colleagues, to whom I just wanted to remind you that abstaining from the Senate is a vote against, and so I hope that, in the debate we will be holding and especially in the debate on the amendments, this consensus will also involve their Group, which together with its representatives in the Defence Commission, together with the representatives of the other groups, has made an important contribution at the stage of the amendments that we have taken, as you know, also in favorable consideration. I do not want to add anything else, but I just want to say that the adoption of this measure must be brought into line with another set of initiatives that are under way: I am thinking of the implementation of Law 244, the processes of reorganization of our defence system, in which we are engaged in the aftermath of the debate on the White Paper, investment programmes, modernisation and rationalization of our military spending. All this finally allows us to be able to modernise our defence system and to give it those certainties that are proper to a great country, aware that on the issues of defence and security we play a decisive game for the future of our society. [[Applause from Senators Casini, Vattuone and Mauro Mario.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u18	I would just like to point out that the Budget Committee is not late, but there is a lack of the technical report by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u21	Mr Pegorer (PD). Madam President, in today's international scenario, it is clear to everyone that the issue of security and its government and control, the very management of possible crisis scenarios, is presented with extremely problematic and dramatic features. It is no coincidence that two years ago this legislature began with a new focus on security and defence, under the pressure of the worsening crises in North Africa and in that framework the question of the need to build, among other things, a more effective common European defence policy was strongly raised. The events and further crises that have occurred since then (the very serious acts of terrorism that have affected the same European territory, the events in Syria, Ukraine, Libya, the Middle East, the tragic events of the Mediterranean) have increasingly highlighted a serious deficit in the crisis management capabilities of Western countries and, in particular, of the European Union. Hence the political fact of great importance for our continent, and not only: that is, the no longer feasible implementation of a common strategy of defence and security that is more effective and lives up to the present scenario. Security is therefore now the first place in the agendas of the main countries. This theme is systematically proposed in all its day-to-day drama and puts on the agenda the question of how to support a system of shared global governance, thus able to address the various crises and, in the immediate future, the current framework of instability. Our country has been contributing to collective security for many years now; Italy has always been on the side of defending and asserting international law and has a very long-term commitment to the protection of human rights, the multilateral management of crises, as well as the strengthening of multilateral organisations such as the United Nations, the European Union and the Atlantic Alliance. The Italian missions, moreover, have given important results at international level, also for the ability to stabilize the areas at risk and for the improvement of the national military instrument. As you know and as the rapporteurs recalled, an Italian model of peacekeeping has been established since the 1982 International Mission in Lebanon, which provides for a strong impartiality and a particular attention and sensitivity to the needs of the civilian population and to the humanitarian aspects. All this goes hand in hand with convinced policies of cooperation, which in the coming years are destined to assume an increasingly significant role in the framework of the interventions that will be called to implement our country. I believe that all this must be claimed with the pride of those who know that they are working for the good and peace of the peoples. Nor can we fail to thank, especially on this occasion, those thousands and thousands of women and men, in uniforms and not, who have worked all these years. It is largely their merit if today our country is recognized by all as a reliable and credible partner. Madam President, on the basis of some of the content of the measure before us, we note in particular that improving our quality and ability to participate in international operations, because of the role we have played and still have today, also means supporting the management capacity of the international system as a whole. We know that the legal basis of our international missions is based on the second period of Article 11 of the Constitution; while Articles 78 and 87 contain only provisions aimed at regulating the state of war, establishing Article 78 that the Chambers deliberate the state of war and confer on the Government the necessary powers and, the following Article 87, the ninth paragraph, that the President of the Republic declares the state of war deliberated by the Chambers. There was, however, a need - and this has been repeated for years - for a different legal framework to allow, in the first place, to overcome the practice of the decree of urgency and, secondly, to achieve greater programming capacity, also thanks to a more precise and stable definition of the resources available. At the same time, Parliament's contribution should certainly be strengthened, allowing greater control over the operational coherence of individual missions with the priorities of Italian foreign policy and with the policies of the multilateral organisations that constitute Italy's reference in the international field. It was still a matter of entrusting Parliament - rightly, in my view - with the possibility of monitoring closely the progress of individual interventions and any progress that might have been made on the ground. In essence, on this very sensitive subject, it was extremely necessary to establish a legal and political basis fully legitimated by the parliamentary debate. However, it should be pointed out that the measure, as defined by the comparison to the Chamber and in the same work of the Commissions gathered 3rd and 4th of the Senate, beyond to heal obvious shortcomings of our order, affirms without doubt the principles and the key ideas of our foreign defence policy, such as participation in the processes of peace and democratic stabilisation and confirmation of the international role of the Country, also in the framework of large multilateral operations, relaunching our model of participation in international missions, strongly based on the relationship with international organizations, NGOs, humanitarian agencies, authorities and local communities. Finally, but not least, it is useful to remember the particular political significance underlying nature or the same process that the present bill has so far affirmed and travelled. In the House, in fact, the parliamentary debate made possible a final vote without votes against: the bill to our attention thus enjoyed a large majority. On the other hand, the parliamentary road has been long, sometimes impervious and certainly tiring, but, in this particular case, Parliament has been able to play its full role. The present measure therefore offers a regime-based discipline of the relationship between the Government and Parliament, addressing the issue of the treatment of military personnel and clarifying in a precise way the process for financing peace missions. It was no longer sustainable, in fact, for a country like Italy, with its history and political culture, to continue to extend international missions with approved measures of six months in six months, without having, like the most advanced countries of Western Europe, for example France, a precise regulatory framework. It is therefore a reason for appreciation that the Government, on this very delicate aspect of the country's life, has intended to pursue and promote the full availability of parliamentary procedures. During the examination by the relevant Senate Commissions, as the rapporteurs have already reported, the text has been partially amended in some respects. I would remind you in particular that the authorisation procedure for any intervention has been better defined and, again, the scope of the military penal code of war has been clarified. Madam President, I should like to conclude: as I said earlier, this measure has been approved by the House in a climate marked by a peaceful confrontation and a common awareness of the importance of this issue. I hope that such a climate can also be achieved in our debate and in the examination of the amendments themselves, thereby taking the opportunity to affirm, in my opinion, the centrality of Parliament and its being equal to the problems in the field, confirming its autonomy and decision-making capacity, which are the foundation of our own representative democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u22	Senator Cotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the procedures for Italy's participation in international missions should help us to overcome the current habit of using urgent decrees-laws, which in fact allow the launch of military missions before the parliamentary pronouncement on their own opportunity, thus making it difficult for Parliament to deny the conversion into law of the decree-law, as this would result in the withdrawal of the newly deployed military device. A first limit of the bill is the lack of a precise definition of an international mission, in the absence of which would be possible interpretations as wide and ambiguous as possible; this limit could however be mitigated by proposed amending measures. Another problem is that, as provided for in Article 1, the law would allow participation in missions not necessarily deliberated by the UN, but also by international organisations not better specified. Another major limitation of this bill is the implied, almost fidelistic attribution to the military apparatus of the exclusive function of intervention in the event of an international crisis or controversy. According to a cultural approach very rooted in the current Government and in the current majority, but not in the real country, whether you assume to fight and to avert attacks, resolve disputes, maintain peace, monitor the respect of agreements, those responsible for dealing with it are always the Armed Forces. Without at least some corrective intervention, which provides for the possibility of putting in place different hypotheses of crisis solutions and disputes, we would risk to worsen the situations that we want to resolve, as happened in the recent past, for example in Libya in 2011 or Iraq in 2003; eh, have you already noticed that today you are struggling to find people who claim that the destabilisation of Libya has had positive effects? Yet someone in Italy wanted that intervention and carried it out; today all the protagonists seem to blame someone else. Even in Iraq, the evolution of history shows how wrong post-Saddam policy has been, as well as irresponsible the methods of armed intervention conducted in that country. Today there are instruments of diplomacy, economic pressure and resolution of disputes that can do without armed intervention, which this bill, if not properly amended, cheerfully ignores. For this and other reasons, the adoption of this law is a missed opportunity, yet another, for the benefit of those who earn money and power from military missions, such as traffickers and arms producers, such as generals (who, a few months after retirement, benefit from well-paid positions in arms and military equipment companies) or as the system of polygons and exercises. Yes, from tomorrow we will have the opportunity to analyze missions one by one, without facing all-inclusive decrees; but this is a slight consolation. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u25	Madam President, this is a measure which has already found our support, as a Group of the North League, in the House at first reading. I believe that what Mr Pini said on that occasion, especially in the explanation of vote, must be confirmed here. This is certainly a measure that goes in the right direction; it is a bit brazen, to tell the truth, because it is the responsibility in part of the defence and in part of the foreign countries. However, we try to set a course and give an address on issues that are important and fundamental in the life of a country that wants to play an important role in a very complex and very delicate international context. This measure gives guidelines, sets out a line of action and sets out how to act and how to act with regard to situations which affect everyone and which should not be reserved for the attention of only those involved in the work. These are delicate issues, which sometimes, with the repercussions on our daily lives, belong to the lives of all citizens; perhaps there is no full understanding of this fact, but realistically, if we want to look at the scope of these norms and the subject under discussion, no one can deny this truth. More than making an intervention on the whole of the measure, which we share, I would like to focus on an article in this draft law, Article 19, which addresses a particular issue that concerns the responsibilities of the Committee that I have the honour to chair. On this article we have tabled amendments, signed by all the Senators who make up the Committee that I chair, belonging to different groups. In particular, I think it is appropriate to draw the attention of my fellow Members to certain amendments, which could be included in a new wording of the rapporteurs, which tend to clarify - let us say this - the tracks within which action can be taken and action can be taken, which are certainly heavy, important and often appropriate, but which are also very delicate. I am referring to the amendments, which concern paragraph 1 of Article 19, aimed at deleting the words "otherwise" and "also", the amendment aimed at involving the Ministry of the Interior and that aimed at modifying the wording provided for in the current Article 19, limiting it to situations of crisis which involve aspects of national security and for the protection of Italian citizens who are in difficulties abroad, also replacing the word "and" with the word "or", accepting a reformulation, which goes in a direction that we share. These amendments make it possible to use new and important instruments, because the framework changes every day and every day and becomes increasingly complex. I therefore believe that this challenge must be tackled openly, using those instruments, giving those guarantees and offering the opportunity to act and the necessary covers to those who are called to play such a delicate and important role for the safety of all of us. I would therefore like to highlight these aspects rather than make an overall speech on the measure, which - I repeat - is shared by us: it will also be thanks to the cooperation of my colleague, Senator Council, in the course of the work on the measure, which we will take further action. In an explanation of vote we will reiterate our sharing, with the clarification that I made at the beginning of my speech, regarding the sharing of the aims of the content of the same, but it seems appropriate to point out the novelty of this article 19, which is probably the most delicate passage among those inserted by the Senate, but which is also a positive revolution: of this we must recognize the merit of a spirit of positive collaboration, which has been established within the Committee that I chaired and which I hope will lead to important results for all citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Latorre and Vattuone]] COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Casson is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u26	Mr President, I would like to say straight away that I also want to speak in the wake of what the President of the Copasir, Senator Stucchi, has said about Article 19, which refers to intelligence measures for crisis management. I am intervening because we have had the opportunity, both with our colleagues from the relevant committees and within the Republic's Parliamentary Security Committee, to reason on the proposal that had been put forward. Unfortunately, for contingent reasons, there was no way, either within the Justice Commission or in the Copasir, of seeing the text of the article in advance. The activity that has been carried out and the contacts that have been subsequently also with the National Authority for Delegated Security have been positive, in the sense that the text, as it comes to the examination of the Assembly of the Senate, all of us members of the Copasir we propose to make some modifications, as President Stucchi said a moment ago. What I will say shortly should be considered in a positive and collaborative way, especially in the following perspective, which will have to concern more directly the President of the Council of Ministers, especially in his power to issue directives and provisions, in order to regulate this new institution in practice, which must concern the management of crises abroad. At the outset, when this text was presented, there were some concerns, which had been discussed, precisely because in the reformulation, as it had been presented, it was expected - and, still at the moment, it is expected - that it would in fact be almost a mini-system of information and intelligence parallel and independent from the structures provided for by Law No 124 of 2007. I remember that as early as 2006-2007, when I worked together with Senator Latorre for the new law on the reform of state intelligence and secret services, we were very concerned to ensure that rules were laid down to prevent the detours that had occurred in the past and, therefore, to prevent any illegal structures from being created unfettered and in any future situation, as well as structures outside the control of the governing body and Parliament. I remember, among other things, that during the 1990s, the so-called OX structure was created within the intelligence service, especially for exfiltration activities, i.e. those that are being considered at this time. I believe that the tasks - which must be properly identified in this law - must be specified, especially within the measure to be adopted by the President of the Council of Ministers, also with a view to introducing a differentiation from the provisions of Law No 124 of 2007. The obvious fact, in fact, is that it derogates from the discipline provided by Law No. 124 of 2007 and that it is also necessary in this context to specify why and for what circumstance the guarantees prepared by the law for men of the information system should also be extended to other arrangements. This brings me to a particular point in Article 19. With regard to the new intelligence structure, we are talking in a way that is not precise and yet indeterminate - but we are already discussing it and in the amendments we have already identified what can be the shared and common path to be followed - of defence structures. This in itself could be seen by way of derogation from the provision of Article 8 of Law No 124 of 2007, which expressly and explicitly provides that the functions assigned to DIS (Department of Security Information), AISE (Information Agency and External Security) and AISI (Information Agency and Internal Security) may not be performed by any other body, body or office, even by RIS (Defense Staff Information and Security Department), which performs different tasks. I say this in anticipation of returning to the point relating to the so-called non-criminality clause for the crime commission. It is obvious that, as I mentioned earlier, the words will be used mainly for the directives which the President of the Council of Ministers wishes to give by regulation, because with respect to the extension of the non-punishment clause, which is still indeterminate at the moment, the subjects belonging to the target Armed Forces, which at this time are not known, as are the military employed abroad, must certainly be identified in a more specific way. In addition, the operations and activities to be carried out, unlike military missions abroad, whose mandate is specified in Parliament, must be better determined. As a result, the needs of military operations would seem imponderable, as well as non-existent, the rules of engagement, which are foreseen instead for missions abroad, are currently unexistent. Another important point which must be clearly identified and clarified is that relating to the chain of command, which, otherwise, as the norm is set and without the forecasts that the President of the Council of Ministers will have to and will want to make, could be reduced - according to the letter of paragraph 1 - to the President of the Council of Ministers alone, which certainly cannot be done. My comments are general, and then we will discuss them more specifically in the debate on the amendments. I would like to point out the amendments in question very quickly, partly because I am withdrawing one of them now in the light of the favourable comments made on the other amendments. First of all, Amendment 19,250 needs to be corrected in the last line, where we talk about national security aspects and for the protection of Italians abroad.It should be pointed out that the conjunction is not a "e" but a "e": there has been a typo, so the correction is called for. As I have anticipated the withdrawal of amendment 19.251, while it is confirmed, also for the positive contribution expressed both by the rapporteurs and by the representative of the Government, the amendments 19.252, 19.253 and 19.254, to ensure that the competences of this law enforcement intelligence structure, which must relate to absolutely emergency situations or to the protection of Italian citizens abroad, are better specified. We also know that it is necessary that there is a cooperative contribution not only of intelligence structures that, as they are, at this time would not be able to operate properly, but also of structures that can be of structures of the Italian State, not only those military ones belonging to the Ministry of Defence, but also those of the Ministry of the Interior (of course chosen departments), as has been confirmed within the Copasir also by the chief of police. I will explain the amendments better at the appropriate time. [[Applause from Senator Albano]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u27	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, today's measure is yet another attempt to limit Parliament's decision-making power on a valuable issue, which concerns all of us, such as the maintenance of peace. In these confused times, circumventing Article 11 of the Constitution, entrusting to a few the power to intervene militarily, finds no justification except in the exceptionality of the decree of urgency. Our country risks rushing towards an use of the armed resource that goes beyond, without any compelling motivation, the constitutional predictions. I am concerned in this text with that reference - but not too much - to the need to intervene in armed missions not by autonomous decision, but because imposed by the alliances in which Italy participates. I remember that the NATO agreements are based on defensive actions and purposes, never offensive and not even peacekeeping. To distort the genesis of the NATO Treaty means, with this bill, to obtain a legal recognition to put peace at risk, favoring the neocolonialist and war-making tendency that is now before everyone's eyes. Let us remember Libya, the dramatic consequences of the arbitrary French intervention. With this measure we run the risk, under NATO's hat, of intervening in theaters of war far away and out of the Italian influence and European interests. This rule does not reinforce the constraint of intervention following UN resolutions, but dangerously extends it to protect the military interests of the alliance. This rule does not reinforce the constraint of intervention solely for defensive reasons, but provides for armed intervention in order to generically re-establish international law, forgetting the indispensable role of the United Nations as diplomatic mediator for peace. We are faced with an attempt to provide for a rule that allows a strategic assessment of the modalities and reasons of participations in missions, without clearly indicating that everything must be envisaged exclusively in order to achieve peace. Parliament is giving its powers to the Government, which, according to this evil rule, will have to indicate: geographical area of intervention, objectives and legal bases of reference, no longer indicated by a UN resolution. This rule stealthily solves on paper the limits of spending and supply funds for war, through the creation of a special fund independent of the Sato's financial laws. Today we are asked to approve a preparatory path to stable conflict situations that have a single logical outcome: new wars. Italy will enter into the ranks of nations that have an economic endowment to conduct military operations abroad and at a time when unemployment and the economic crisis are still at the highest level. Financing the war is stupid. The text does not only impoverish the role of Parliament, but also that of the Head of State, whose powers remain very poor in relation to the decree of urgency, because it is the Council of Ministers that decides to communicate to the President of the Republic, as stated in Article 2 of the text. How can I express an opinion and a vote in favour of this manifestation of the warlike wills of the current Government and NATO, of the distortions in the use of the Armed Forces when the Government forgets its soldiers essentially prisoners for years abroad, unable to maintain the repeated promises of rapid resolution of the case? Citizens must be protected towards a future of peace and our military to pursue and protect it, not to put it in danger. It is for these reasons of justified dissent that I express, also as spokesperson for the Senate of the Federation of Greens, a vote absolutely against. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's registered to speak Senator Bulgarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u29	Madam President, this act, which speaks of Italian military contingents sent abroad, is certainly positive, because until now this issue had been dealt with through decree-laws while now we are trying to have a framework law passed in order to restore centrality to Parliament. The problem is that this Parliamentary act seems to achieve this objective, but on the contrary it takes Parliament away from the centre. This is primarily because it refers to so many acts of an administrative nature, which this Government is doing more and more. The problem with administrative acts is that the opinions expressed by the Budget Commission on them, particularly on the basis of Article 81 of the Constitution, are less effective than those expressed on acts approved by the Chambers. So the administrative act takes over Parliament's power, especially in the area of control of financial resources; and we happen to always end up there. In addition, this measure takes Parliament away from the centre for another reason: it would appear that this act starts from Parliament, but in reality the Commissions can only give parliamentary guidelines; then the Government will be able to do with it what it wants, even if it does not take them into account. That is why the centrality of Parliament is again set aside, as if Parliament were no longer needed and only the government, as I recall, should be an executive and not a legislative power. I would like to draw attention to another serious problem, always at the level of procedure, which seems to be invoked only when the government needs it. This parliamentary act, which concerns Italian missions abroad (we talk about defence and money spent on defence, as if we did not already spend enough), to the House was without technical relation. So it is not that there is a lack of technical report here, in the passage to the Senate: there is a lack of technical report on the act of parliamentary initiative. Then I'll tell you why, in my opinion, this is not random and, speaking of the articles, I'll show you exactly what problems it can create in terms of financial coverage. I remember well that the Government always invokes the technical report: for example, it invoked it in the matter of civil unions and held a parliamentary act for several months because the technical report was missing. Now, by chance, for military contingents, the technical report is not necessary. The Government has always invoked the report and even both Minister Padoan and Deputy Minister Morando, during the decision of the Pensions Council, have given interviews (it was also stated in the Budget Committee) in which it was stated that, since balance of the budget is included in the Constitution, it is a right equivalent to the rights of individuals. But - by chance - once again this has not been invoked for international missions and, therefore, for the money that goes to the Defense; also this will certainly be random. For this parliamentary act on international missions everything went smoothly, no one was concerned about the technical report. The financial cover - and I say this here because I did not have the opportunity in the Commission to do so because, since there is no technical report, we have not even begun to discuss it and I would like to know how we can discuss it in the Senate Chamber - presents very serious problems. The Parliamentary Act refers to a Fund, established under Article 4, on which, under the Stability Act, money is paid to cover all these international missions. There are, however, articles that do not give any certainty that there will actually be additional financial effects. I refer to Article 5, which deals with mission allowances; Article 6, which deals with flat-rate remuneration for employment and overtime; Article 7, which deals with operational allowances; Article 8, which refers to social security and welfare treatment; Article 10, which defines the extension of detention and calls in service of military personnel; Article 11, which deals with the evaluation of the service provided in international missions for the purposes of progress to the higher level; Article 12, on the protection of military personnel for participation in internal competitions; Article 21, where urgent action is taken. For all these articles there is absolutely no guarantee that it will be sufficient to refer to the Fund referred to in Article 4. We begin, therefore, to understand why there was no technical relationship to the House. In addition, Article 17 would appear to add a managerial figure to existing legislation. Honestly, I think that there are enough management figures, both in the military and, in general, in the public administration. Again, Article 19 does not give any certainty as regards new charges; it concerns intelligence measures and almost certainly cannot exclude the emergence of new charges. Moreover, if the absence of cover - and I do not understand how this act could have passed to the Chamber - was not enough, Article 20 (very interesting for a Government that says to fight the mafia) is an exception to the rules on procurement within the limit of 50 million euros: it is one of the most dangerous things that can be done in Italy. We know very well, in fact, that when you derogate from some law or when you make exceptions, these not only become praxis, but of course they put only those who should not put it in them; establishing a derogation on tenders seems madness to me. Article 22 does not really comply with the accounting law because it provides that payments, in any way made by foreign States or international organisations, are paid into the Fund in account of expenditure on the efficiency of the military instrument, which is the Ministry of Defence. This cannot be done: money must return to the state budget, not to that of the Ministry of Defence. I think we've given enough money to the defense to have an article in the constitution that says we reject the war. The act of a parliamentary nature, which seemed to be a gift to Parliament by the Government, is yet another attempt to focus power on the usual known: firstly, on the Presidency of the Council and, now, on the Ministry of Defence, which seems to me the only other body to have powers in this State. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u30	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u31	Madam President, the Forza Italia Group has supported this measure. We have voted in favour of the House and also in the Commission our attitude has been in cooperation, because on the matter of international military missions, perhaps, unlike other groups and other political coalitions, we can claim a linear position. I remember that in the past, when the center-right was a minority (as now) and our votes were decisive for the renewal, the continuation of some military missions, we voted in support of those measures to extend international missions and made national interest prevail over a purely political assessment, knowing that in fact that vote offered a majority that the center-left government, for the divisions of the time, would not have. I remember this episode to say that our coherence on these choices is evident. 18.01 (Following GASPARRI). We still believe - I say this without rhetoric, but with conviction - that Italian military missions are fundamental in many contexts. I am thinking of Lebanon, of which there is little talk, and of the function of stabilization of the international mission and therefore of the Italian contingent, which in the past had among the protagonists General Graziano, who just after his post in Lebanon held prestigious positions that then led him to become Chief of Defense Staff. On the contrary, we believe that in some cases the international community should reflect on certain missions: I am thinking of the idea of disengagement from Afghanistan of the international community. Recently, the United States has also procrastinated the dates, but I believe that perhaps the international community should reflect before thinking of a disengagement from Afghanistan, even more so in relation to what is being recorded in all that vast chessboard, which is now so vast that it starts from Nigeria of Boko Haram and arrives in deep Asia, crossing all North Africa, where fundamentalism is proposed in threatening forms and finds in the Islamic State its advanced tip of extremism and madness. Afghanistan, if there were a withdrawal of the military mission too early in relation to the urgency of history, I do not know how long it could resist a reconquest of fundamentalists. This is not, however, the object of the measure under consideration, which seeks to put these interventions into order, to avoid episodic actions and introduces a number of ways also for further missions and needs. Although Senator Alicata will then make the explanation of vote on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, I would like to take this opportunity briefly to draw the attention of the speakers and the representative of the Government to some issues. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is calling into question the security structures of the services, which are being mentioned in some way (this was a debate which we also held in the Commission). I would like to take this opportunity to remind the Government and Parliament that the Group of Forza Italia, on whose behalf I speak, is incredibly excluded from the Copasir due to strange parliamentary dynamics and the events that have been at the center of two meetings of the unified Conferences of the Heads of Chamber and Senate (to which, as Vice President of the Senate, I have had the opportunity to participate) where this anomaly was discussed. Consider that the draft law under consideration makes this situation even more anomalous. Already our Group is excluded from a series of possibilities of verification and interlocations that, given the constraints of secrecy, there are at the Copasir; and in a phase of terrorism, of threat, of conflicts declared or in any case carried out, the role of Copasir is even more delicate and will become even more so with the additional functions that can be understandably attributed to the services in the framework of international missions. In fact, the role of intelligence, controls, information in relation to international missions is fundamental for the preparation and protection of those missions and for complex relations with local realities often complicated and sometimes even tribal: let us think about what is happening in Libya or elsewhere, where fragmentation leads to ancestral situations in history. All this greater involvement of services is needed, but - Senator Latorre, I am addressing you who are well aware of this issue as the rapporteur for the measure, as the President of the Commission and as a lover of the matter - I believe that this issue should be addressed and if it were so here it would be even better. Let us see whether the circumstances will ripen, given the ordinary bureaucracy; otherwise our Group will have to return to putting the issue with arrogance and force, because it is not possible that a parliamentary and democratic reality should be excluded from bodies that are fundamental, even more so with this measure which provides for further forms of use of services. We will discuss the other issue in the coming weeks, but I take this opportunity to address the Government, President Latorre and President Casini. Since we are talking about military missions, we should understand something in Parliament. There is a further mission, called EUNAVFOR Med, which is the last to have been added and which was launched with the aim of fighting the hullers. What happened? At the moment there are no final deliberations of the European Union: yesterday they were announced for the month of October, but waiting for - God willing - Libya to ask for international intervention (it is said that in a few days - who knows - the famous Bernardino Leon will be able to come to the head and we wish him and we hope so), meanwhile the mission has been started and during the summer the military ships have operated. I remember that this mission has the aim, in three phases, to destroy the escafism, to intervene on the empty hulls and even to go to Libyan waters. However, there is a lack of further degrees and steps forward, hence the additional stamp of the European Union, which yesterday was announced for the next few days during the chaotic and failed summit on immigration (but for a few months now Europe has been making more summits than decisions). It is also necessary for the UN - God willing - to do something useful. We would like to understand in essence the function of this mission, otherwise it would be, as reported in the newspapers, ships that have brought other illegals to Italy and among other things not necessarily refugees to be rescued. We know very well that the refugees of war who arrived in Italy from Syria are all in all few and that most of those who arrive are immigrants of an economic nature. Some - few - come from war zones, while many move in the hope of a better life: Europe itself tells us to identify them through the famous centres and distinguish them from the refugees, perhaps leading them to rejection. I say this because the measure under consideration, by facilitating the mechanism for launching and managing military missions, must lead to greater clarity about the nature of these missions. The latter is very clear in its intentions, but less so in practice. We first did the mission and then took the international decisions that give the legitimacy to act in a certain way. So I take the opportunity of today's debate to express these concepts. This is a subject related to those of the Parliamentary Committee on the Security of the Republic, Security and Access to a Parliamentary Body, as well as to the greater transparency of the nature of this mission. President Latorre, I hope that you can have the Minister's presence and understand what is happening, knowing well that no one knows the definitive truth (let's think about the evolution of Libya). We have sent soldiers and we are spending money, partly European, but surely there is also a use of means, personnel and Italian resources for purposes that we share. We said that the new NEVFOR Med mission was fine and we voted in favour, but already at the time we suggested that we check in September what would happen in the meantime, whether the institutional purpose of that mission had been realized or whether the intervention had served only as an additional force to Operation Triton. The latter deals with other interventions which, in our opinion, have proved to be of nocution, because it has in fact encouraged the scafism, knowing that someone completed the journey to Italy. I conclude by announcing that our orientation is in favour of this measure, also confirming an estimate and appreciation for the Armed Forces, for their employment and for women and men who in many international contexts have made great sacrifices. We hope that on some disputes related to international missions - I am thinking of that of the two riflemen of our Navy - there may be some other attitude of decision after the summer progress recorded at the international courthouse. We will see whether a parliamentary stimulus will be needed to ensure that both soldiers can wait for international arbitration in Italy, even in the light of the news that we read a few weeks ago about Salvatore Girone's health. In conclusion, while we are discussing the theoretical framework provision on international missions, we must not forget those who really make missions and who have suffered the consequences, remembering who has put us back and who has seen life ruin it by the arrogance of some countries. Ours is therefore a yes and a very vigilant support on all these issues of an agenda that we know well and that we would like to be widely shared in Parliament, as was the case with this measure, which has found a broad consensus, almost unanimous, on the part of the political forces. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u32	Senator Maran is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the need for an organic law capable of providing a uniform legal framework for sending Italian quotas abroad is widely shared. As has been said by the speakers, with the participation of Italy in international missions we have contributed to important stabilisation results in many parts of the world, we have improved our military instrument and our country has also improved its international image. In the past, international missions have in fact been an instrument to defend the rank of Italy in the world. In today's international system, the rank of a country does not depend so much or only, of course, on global military commitments: as economists would say, it can be argued that participation in international missions offers lower marginal benefits than in the past, while for example increasing the weight of both internal and global economic credibility. Italy, however, cannot afford a domestic retreat: it must find a new balance between internal constraints and external security, a balance that Italy, like none of the European countries, can ever base only on national choices. The West, we know, is currently experiencing a phase of partial retreat, both because there are, starting from the United States, more important economic constraints than before, and because the results of democratic intervention were rather disappointing. The problem is that all this is not exchanged in Italy with the illusion of being finally uninterested in international security: more than other countries, Italy remains vulnerable and exposed on a geopolitical level and for us there is no line to Swiss. Not only that, the reduction of the American presence will force us to do more for the stability of our borders. Among the historical constants that affect the orientations of our foreign policy, there is precisely a condition of dual vulnerability and insecurity: towards the outside, because of the weak settling and the continuous fluidity of two obliged sides of the Italian foreign policy (the Balkan peninsula and the southern shore of the Mediterranean) and towards the inside because of the periodic re-emergence of political and institutional weaknesses of a state without force. There is another constant that, because of the first, has constituted and continues to constitute a response to the condition of vulnerability, and it is the anchoring to bilateral alliances and systems of alliances with stronger actors, able to fill the international and sometimes even internal security deficit of our country and also to ensure the participation of Italy to the table of the main powers. The point is that against the background of these historical constants, today the Italian foreign policy suffers from two other processes: not only the weakening of the multilateral option, but the fact that America no longer has the scale, no longer has the strength and even the internal consent to act as Atlas that holds the world on its shoulders, to use a definition that often circulates in America, acting at the same time as an economic locomotive and guarantor of military security and at the same time we are witnessing the cohesion crisis, perhaps even more worrying, which weighs on the architrave itself of the multilateral option of Italy, which is the European Union. Europe has become increasingly introverted and fragmented, and it counts less and less on the international scene, and in America a retreat is taking place, and American citizens, close between economic difficulties and endless and endless wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, would like to shake off the geopolitical burdens, but neither America nor Europe can afford a hasty retreat; the Atlantic Alliance must measure itself with a phase of uncertainty and turbulence of global politics, in which the power of the West is moving ever more towards the emerging countries and the upheavals that will accompany by force of things, inevitably, this earthquake can be dealt with more effectively only through a close understanding between the United States and Europe and within the European Union. For this reason too, because security around us will be European or not, Italy must remain a credible partner that can reduce the old international burdens, but that cannot escape new commitments that are emerging, both economic and military. If you read it carefully, Article 11 makes it clear, unequivocally, that the use of armed force of aggression is prohibited. And it allows (after a semicolon, because there is not even a point) those transfers of sovereignty necessary for the construction, as an active process, of peace. For this reason, too, we believe it is appropriate to define a framework that can allow Italian military troops to be sent abroad, and a reasonably unified framework. That Italy can lock itself in is the furthest away from the reality of the 21st century. And for this our way of seeing this draft framework law is welcome. [[Applause from Senator Latorre.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u34	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Casini.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u35	Madam President, I have to say that I have considered the speeches of great interest; they complement the framework that President Latorre and I have presented to the House. There were some considerations, also very interesting and right, such as those just made by Senator Gasparri. In fact, assessments of the military missions in place, the issues affecting the current military missions and the very complex geopolitical framework in which our missions take place have inevitably been intertwined (and could only be so). We are thinking, in particular, of the concerns that this House has, unanimously, for the Mediterranean and for the Libyan situation. All these reflections have been intertwined with the regulatory renewal represented by this measure. Without prejudice to the fact that the Government, of course, has the right, and probably also the duty, to respond, if it considers it, to geopolitical considerations, which I also share, on open issues on the ground, it is true that the impact and the relationship between our country, the European Union and the United Nations today is particularly important. These missions, in fact, are defined in Europe and in the United Nations, and some of these missions must also receive a kind of institutional collaboration needed with the Libyan authorities (as Senator Gasparri rightly said). And we know that an attempt is being made by the UN to form a government of national unity in order to have a dialogue that is indispensable for us. Because doing anti-piracy missions in a collaboration with the Libyan Government is an account; doing so without the collaboration of the Libyan Government, frankly, risks being very problematic. All these reflections are sacred, but they belong to a political evaluation, which is present in the debate in the newspapers, in public opinion and in Parliament. On the other hand, the regulatory framework we are presenting is designed to provide a very important general rule. It is part of a non-quota but regulatory framework for the whole of the matter, and it concerns the way in which we will deal with military missions in the coming years. I see no contradiction between these reflections and the work we have done. And it is so true that I do not see contradictions that this work was launched by the House of Deputies without any vote against, because the reflections of a kind could not interfere with the positive judgment given on this measure. Therefore, I feel comforted by these reflections, even those criticisms, but I do not think they relate to the specific subject of the measure. I do not know whether President Latorre thinks he wants to add anything; in any case, that is the opinion of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u36	I call the rapporteur, Senator Latorre.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u37	Madam President, I would like to return to Mr Casini's reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u38	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u39	Madam President, the Government reserves the right to intervene later, with the hope that the climate will remain this, because the issues that remain open are not many. I shall therefore refer the intervention to a moment following the changes relating to requests still open.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u40	Since the technical report has not been received, since the Budget Committee has not been able to give its opinion, I shall refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u43	VACCARI (PD). Madam President, I decided to speak at the end of the sitting to unfortunately continue the macabre accounts of climate change. Members will have seen what happened in Emilia Romagna, in the province of Piacenza, in recent days, with yet another water bomb that caused important damage in the Apennines of Piacenza and hit in different municipalities. This count, unfortunately, does not include only one dead and two missing, as it was until a few hours ago, because the research also brought to light the body of another man of forty-three years, besides that of the security guard Luigi Albertelli, fifty-six years old, who died yesterday. Still one person remains dispersed, there are five provincial roads interrupted, isolated places in the municipalities of Farini and Ferriere and in some different hamlets. The most important interventions have now been concentrated in the municipalities of Bettola and Roncaglia, where different public and private areas have been affected; the telephone and gas plants have been significantly damaged throughout the high Valnure and the companies are committed to repair the damaged pipelines and restore the interrupted utilities. This is yet another natural disaster that has struck our territory. The mobile column of Emilia-Romagna intervened promptly and made available 23 teams for prompt assistance to the population, while the Emilia-Romagna Region has allocated two million extraordinary euros to be allocated to the restoration of normality, but it is necessary to do quickly and do well to restore those territories. First of all, this country needs a national strategy of adaptation to climate change, which is ready and which this Parliament has a duty to make concrete and tangible, through not only resources, but also a more comprehensive strategy. And again, especially for these territories, which add to Puglia, Romagna, Marche, Veneto, Liguria and Emilia, it is necessary to recognize the state of emergency, especially for the areas of Emilia and Liguria that were affected two and a half years ago, in order to give these territories the tools that concretely allow them to bring back businesses and citizens to a condition of normality. It is no longer possible to postpone the adoption of this national strategy and I hope that the Government, starting from the person of the President of the Council, will take charge of this commitment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u46	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, what I am about to present to you may seem like a chronicle of the late nineteenth century and instead it concerns the medical structure of Villa Aurora in via Mattia Battistini, in the XIV town hall of Rome, where the workers are in a constant state of agitation because of an intolerable situation. Some of them received letters of dismissal in August, while they were on vacation (not on vacation, because already without salary for a few months). Others have suffered severe provocations, in a general climate of terror. Other recent dismissals appear at least suspicious, as in the case of a trade union manager and an administrative manager not in line with company property directives. Everyone, without exception, is working without salary and with massacred shifts, regardless of their duties. The story is always the same: in this House I have already brought to the attention of the President and his colleagues critical situations concerning territorial health situations, as in the case of the workers of IDI or of San Camillo-Forlanini. The crisis at Villa Aurora began on 16 July 2008, with regional cuts and poor management of the company, which produced collective redundancies and two years of cash integration. The burden of management has been carried out throughout this period by workers, who, although without salary for months, have continued to provide services to citizens. Despite this, the debt with the suppliers and the consequent injunctions of payment have produced, last May, the foreclosure of the company accounts. There is also another unclear story about this situation. ASL Roma And he had accredited an RSA (elderly health residence) department, but it was opened inexplicably with a delay of about three years, despite the phonograms of reminder from the same ASL. Meanwhile, the ownership of the structure - formally new after a change occurred in April 2015, but it seems to be only a reshuffling of the family figures involved in the management - prevented the successful outcome of the negotiation, aimed at the sale of the same structure. In particular, an entrepreneur of a nursing home in the same territory had presented a detailed industrial plan, which had found the agreement of the union forces and had resulted in the signing of a preventive agreement. The property blew up the table and is currently open an agreed procedure. In the meantime, however, layoffs have begun and the matter is under discussion at the provincial labour office. In short, we support the demands of workers and trade union organizations for the opening of a joint table with the Region, ASL Roma E, the Municipality of Rome and the company that manages the structure for the withdrawal of dismissals, the maintenance of employment levels and for a plan of return from debt. In anticipation above all of the extraordinary Jubilee, that territory represents a quadrant that will feel the extraordinary weights that will fall there. I would also ask the minister responsible to activate his own inspection tools, so that ownership can respond to public resources that have been provided over the past few years. We will watch, with the attention of this House, Parliament and the corresponding Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u49	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, I bring back a very regrettable fact of the news. At the party of the PD of Ravenna, among the exhibition stands there was also one of the Titan's Games, which distributed to young people - there are related photos on the Internet, reported by "Vita" - a coupon with which you could play for free the first 20 euros (there was the roulette). I believe that this can no longer happen, and I think that a political force can no longer afford to see its image mixed with those who are not careful to encourage young people, indeed the very young, to play. We know, from a recent research Nomisma, that 51 percent of minors have gambled at least once in the last year (remember that it is forbidden) and that one third of them hide from their parents the fact of gambling and the sums actually spent. We can no longer accept - and, if the PD can do so, the responsibility is itss - advertising, promotions and sponsorships of gambling. In July I filed a bill to this effect, and I was not the only one: other colleagues in this House - I remember Senator Albano - and the House of Deputies, the 5 Star Movement and the Democratic Party - and I assume and hope of many other parliamentary groups - have asked for this measure. Stop! We need to stop this bleeding, which is leading many young people to invest in machines rather than their abilities. I hope that the Senate Assembly will give space, in the calendarization of its work, to this simple bill, which in a short time could lead to a step of civilization, really very important. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Ginetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u52	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, in no region in the country began school yesterday and in other regions today, but tens of thousands of precarious teachers, ignored by recruitment plans, risk being left at home. Other precarious teachers, on the other hand, included in phase B of the recruitment plan, accepted the role chair, but prefer to stay in the home for a year to do supplement. As a result of all this, many thousands of empty chairs create problems and disservices for education. Among the many empty chairs, there are also those of thousands of support teachers, with the consequent lack of assistance to many thousands of pupils with disabilities or disability: only in the Lombardy Region there are no teachers in support of the appeal 1,860. What a good school! Other than the triumphal tones of Prime Minister Renzi and Minister of Education Giannini! With the reform the problems have become more acute, there are chaos and unacceptable situations, which have even brought Elio Canino, Jade's father, daughter with Down's syndrome, to chain herself yesterday, on the first day of school, outside the primary school of Calolziocorte, in the province of Lecco, and also to begin a hunger strike for protest. There are, in fact, many pupils with disabilities, such as his daughter Giada, who did not have the support teacher or received only the assignment of an alternate, until the appointment of the teacher holder of the chair, thus not guaranteeing the continuity of teaching that, for a disabled child, is fundamental. Elio Canino has undertaken a strong, but civil, battle to claim the right to education even for those who have really special needs, as guaranteed by the Constitution and the UN Convention. For this reason, and with this striking gesture, Elio Canino is a witness and wants to represent hundreds of families from all over Italy who live the same problem. Although Elijah's case will have a positive response, as it seems to be happening in the last few hours, to the clamor he has aroused, he will continue this struggle for the other thousands of parents of disabled children. Not to assign a teacher of support, or to assign him late, perhaps through an alternate, means to deny the right to education and, therefore, to discriminate. For this reason, the Group of the North League today presented a parliamentary question asking the Minister and the Government what initiatives they intend to take to make the right to education and teaching continuity effective quickly for pupils with disabilities; what initiatives they intend to take to resolve definitively, in the future, the problem that every year presents itself and that this year is more amplified with the good school; as well as to know whether there are specific and objective responsibilities for the situations that are creating, besides of course those policies of the majority and the government, remained deaf to the requests of the various associations of pupils with disabilities or to the many amendments presented by the League, to address and resolve this problem (amendments obviously rejected by this Government and its majority). [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u55	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Madam President, last night, for the fourth time during the summer, along the road 51 of Alemagna, in Cadore, towards Cortina d'Ampezzo, there was a landslide with a very wide front, about 3 meters tall and 100 meters long. The landslide has created once again difficulties, determining the isolation of those areas that, unfortunately, have already seen, during this summer, too many alluvial events, such as the extremely serious one that hit San Vito di Cadore - I want to remember it here - and also caused victims. At this point we ask the Government to be active in giving a concrete response to the citizens of those areas, taking into account, in the first place, the need for those who work in the lower Cadore to reach it, with all the hardships and daily difficulties that it is forced to suffer. I cannot fail to recall here the land monitoring action carried out by the mayor and civil protection volunteers, which allowed the road to be closed just before the landslide, in order to avoid a further disaster and the loss of human lives. It is therefore necessary to recognize a great capacity for coordination on the territory, but it cannot always compensate for the deficiencies and the lack of an organic plan and a willingness of the Government to give concrete answers, to intervene and to ensure that there is a definitive response, also through the allocation of resources within a plan of works that interests the entire front of the Valley of Boite and Cadore, which need answers and concreteness. If I'm not mistaken, when Renzi had the news that Cortina d'Ampezzo would host the 2021 Alpine Ski World Cup, he said a very important sentence: The dream of Cortina is the dream of all Italians. Well, then, the government allows this dream to be realized; it works in this sense, giving the Belluno the opportunity to experience this great opportunity. In fact, the territory is not enough, the strength of the population is not enough, nor is the courage of the mayors and of those who live in the mountains: it takes resources to ensure that there are safe accesses, giving security to the citizens. It is necessary that the great event of the ski world championships can be experienced in the future as a great opportunity that, praised in words by the Government, is then transformed into concrete, with the will of the same Executive to allocate resources for a territory that has need of it and that has always deserved it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u56	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-504.ana.u57	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 6.40 p.m.
