ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u4	Today we commemorate the figure of Gustavo Selva. He asked Senator Malan to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u5	Madam President, thirty days ago Gustavo Selva, who was a senator, left us. Many of us have met him in this House, but surely everyone has known him for his work as a journalist. He was particularly active in the years of terrorism and his denunciation of the Red Brigades, which everyone at the time called "sedicenti Red Brigades" when he emphasized that they were real and not so-called, was such that his name was found in the list of objectives that the Red Brigades wanted to strike, found in the lair of Via Gradoli. I apologize if I read some notes, because it is a very complex life and would have to intervene President Maurizio Gasparri (which, unfortunately, for a sudden commitment, could not be here with us), and that much more than I knew Gustavo. The experience of those years, in particular, is contained in the books he wrote together with Eugenio Marcucci, "The martyrdom of Aldo Moro" and "Aldo Moro." Those terrible 55 days are: dramatic days for our Republic and our institutions, which he has restored to us in all his truth and in all their drama. His professional journalistic commitment was really the commitment of a lifetime. He was, from a young age, in the Catholic newspaper "L'Avvenire d'Italia," working closely with Benigno Zaccagnini, Minister of Labour and then public works, correspondent of RAI from Bonn, Vienna and Brussels. Then, as a Member of the European Parliament and as a national, he was always an intransigent defender of freedom and democracy, a tireless advocate of integration and a union of Europe in the name of the ideals of freedom and Western civilization, as well as promoting an intensification and strengthening of relations with the United States. In this I would like to recall that in 1980 he was among the very few promoters of an Italian committee for the election of Ronald Reagan as President of the United States, which everyone here gave for loser and which instead won triumphantly twice. A particular moment - I believe what most people remember - was when he directed the GR2 from 1975 to 1982, at a time when each Rai network had its own headboard completely independent of the others. During this commitment he invented the editorial of the radio newspaper and it was with those editorials that he conquered the nickname of "radio belva" because he strongly denounced what was done beyond the Iron Curtain and the heavy violations of human rights in the Soviet Empire. In particular, he fought explicitly to avoid the overtaking in 1976: after in 1975 a Communist Party still strongly financed by the Soviet Union had overcome the Christian Democracy, many predicted an overtaking even in the general elections of 1976 and had already adapted to this change, but undoubtedly the editorials of Gustavo Selva, very explicit, frank, short and incisive were among the main weapons that those who did not recognize themselves in what was happening in Eastern Europe - had in defense of their own ideas. In his professional activity he followed Pope John Paul II on many journeys, accompanied him in his first years of pontificate, but he had already interviewed him as a border cardinal, that is, as Cardinal Archbishop of Krakow. During his institutional commitment, I recall the Presidency of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the House from 1994 to 1996 and then the Presidency of the Commission on Foreign Affairs from 2001 to 2006, a task that led him to increase and strengthen links with many countries around the world, also with a view to promoting our trade, our exports and the improvement of our economy. Just yesterday the House passed a bill to allow an improvement of the exchanges with Taiwan, an initiative that had been launched precisely by Gustavo Selva, who for several years was president of the interparliamentary friendship group Italy-Taiwan. I think it's nice to remember a person's commitment. Last week we remembered Giovanni Berlinguer. Certainly Giovanni Berlinguer and Gustavo Selva were on very different sides, each with their own ideals, their own courage and their own frankness, which they defended honoring their role as parliamentarians and our institutions. Gustavo Selva defended the ideals in which he believed and in which many of us believe, I think a lot beyond the boundaries of the parties in which Gustavo Selva fought; I therefore think it is nice to remember him in this House with gratitude for his commitment as a journalist and as a man of the institutions. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, PD and AUT groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u8	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, like Mr Malan, we too have been lucky enough to know Gustavo Selva and to work with him and to appreciate this man with a brilliant career. Gustavo Selva was from 1926. Very young, he becomes editor-in-chief of the RAI news and in RAI he makes a more than brilliant career. He calls him directly Bernabei and his first experiences are as correspondent. He travels half of Europe, he knows the great European capitals, he is correspondent from Brussels, Vienna, Bonn. The experience that most politically forms it, however, is the task of traveling correspondent. He was sent to Eastern countries. His adversity to a model that now seems no longer to exist, to communism, Gustavo formed it on the field, not with readings, but seeing with his own eyes and touching with his own hand, precisely in this relationship and in the occasions he had to know practically all the countries of the East. As Mr Malan has already mentioned, in these missions he even had the honour of knowing and even sympathizing with what was then the bishop of Krakow, who later became John Paul II. You should remember your youth as a journalist. He was first trained at Manzini's school, in Â"L'Avvenire d'Italia", a Catholic newspaper but profoundly anti-fascist: he assumed positions towards the end of fascism and played a decisive role in the formation of public opinion. In fact, as a young journalist, he was present at the Patti di Roma, which signed the signing of what later became the European Community: he knew De Gasperi, Willy Brandt, even Schuman. A formation that then served in his second part of life, when he decided to become part of the political race. His initial experience was the first European election, not by appointment but by voting. Thanks to the fact that he had previously managed GR2, in the seventies, when it seemed that the radio had to die because television had occupied all the spaces and appeared as the new way of communicating, his way of doing interesting journalism actually released the radio instrument. It was in fact he who directed the GR2, what was then renamed "radio belva", managing to distinguish information from opinion, but not disdaining to say exactly what his opinion was. The popularity of Selva led him, in these first European elections, to collect 400,000 preferences, a number perhaps never more equal and that represented an authentic plebiscite. This, however, did not help him much, because the political jealousy did not always play favorably. We knew him and appreciated him as President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and as President of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the House of Deputies. Personally, I got to know him when, in 2007, he was elected to the Senate and we both joined the Defence Commission. I met him, appreciated him, and, given the age gap, I found myself under his wing: friendlyly, an old essay that enlightened and explained. We also had a way of carrying out international missions. As Senator Malan recalled, he was the most important Italian politician to have direct relations with that part of East Asia that seemed relegated to a corner: I speak of the Chinese Republic of Taiwan which, given the hegemony of the Chinese giant and the fear of an international recognition of double China, had been held in a corner. However, it represented a great potential for our country. Gustavo broke this barrier and Taiwan's relations with Italian institutions today are the best. Ours is a real condolence and we would like to express the condolences of the North League to our family members and their party colleagues. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u11	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV)). Madam President, this morning, when I co-ordinated with Senator Malan for the commemoration of Senator Selva, I recalled - and so I entrust myself in part to the memory and in part to an anecdote - a detail that shared me with Senator Malan. In fact, both of us were colleagues of Gustavo Selva in the 2006-2008 parliamentary term and we were part of a group of parliamentarians who, being in opposition, were perhaps a little too prodigal for speeches, especially at the beginning of the plenary session. Gustavo Selva, who had a great experience and had also been National Alliance Leader in the 1996-2001 legislature in the Chamber of Deputies, according to the enormous culture that distinguished him (and as we know culture is not something that you can hide; a man is true for the books that he read and Gustavo Selva had read so many of them), with us he gave us advice on what we could say and what topic to deal with. Intrigued, I tried to ask him where he could delve into the subject of which he was informing us and he, candidly, said he no longer remember him. Wanting to combine the definition that Benedetto Croce gives of culture, that is to say what is known when one has forgotten where one has read it, we must recognize that Gustavo Selva was a man of enormous culture. A man who had read an incredible amount of books and talked about with a great affection saying that he was always involved in a domestic debate and could no longer make room for the books he bought compared to the supplies available at home. Apart from this memory, which is part of Gustavo Selva's culture and peculiarity in relation to his love for books and knowledge, there is an anecdote I would like to pass on to the House. As a young Member of the Chamber, I had been sent several times to the Constitutional Affairs Committee, chaired by Gustavo Selva, on the occasion of the nights for the approval of the law for the regional elections, the famous Tatarellum. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs there was Tatarella but also Mattarella, who was an important component of that Commission, not only for that culture and that constitutional knowledge and electoral laws that we are still talking about today, but for the fact that he was in the legislature before the Mattarellum extender. Thus, when discussing regional law, he was naturally led to transfer his experience and recent knowledge into the Tatarellum debate. We, young parliamentarians, were necessarily obliged to be present and listen to so many things that, late in the evening, we probably thought we could avoid to spend our time in other occupations. So, for a familiar confidence that allowed me, I asked Mattarella to stop doing those surgeries, so that in the evening we could do something else. He, however, with the usual and natural courtesy of which we have all come to know, told me that he could not afford it, that he already did little and, that little did it out of respect for Gustavo Selva, who was a great President and a man of the institutions. With this anecdote I would like to conclude my speech, because, as Mattarella told me in 1994, Gustavo Selva was a man of the institutions, of which I am honoured to have been a colleague, whom I am honoured to have known: I believe that all this branch of the Chambers should be honored to be part of a Parliament of which Gustavo Selva was an authoritative member. [[Applause from the LAGs (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV) and AP (NCD-UDC). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u14	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I would also like to associate myself with the words of my fellow Members, for their personal knowledge and friendship with Gustavo Selva, a great character in journalism and politics, and for the human profile that characterized him. Although I was born in the second half of the last century, I believe I belong to a generation that has been lucky enough to know of the characters who made the history of Italy. When Gustavo Selva said that, as a very young journalist from L'Avvenire d'Italia, he had made the Italian tour with De Gasperi on the occasion of the 1948 elections, and therefore had witnessed an era full of contrasts but also of civil and political passions, it was necessary to remain to listen to him enchanted, because he was able to witness the climate of the time, with the same political and civil passion, which he confirmed throughout his life. Together with Benigno Zaccagnini, his fellow countryman - they were both ravennati - I also attended his debut in politics, in the mid-seventies, when Gustavo Selva - great journalist and already great authoritative signature - attended a conference of Christian Democracy in Bologna. I still remember that, with his signature of unmistakable voice, he said that, although he was accustomed to being a journalist, speaking at a party congress he was panicked in dealing with issues that, from a political point of view, were for him as a neophyte, in the context of that great coacervo of passions, friendships and cultural tendencies that made up the Christian Democracy. He debuted just as a moroteum, as a friend of Zaccagnini, within that left DC Romagna, which gave so much to the political elaboration of Christian Democracy in those times. Certainly his experience as a journalist was precious, at the moment when he transferred all his experiences, both positive, to politics, which led him to the absolute record of 400,000 votes taken in the Northeast, and negative, as when he stumbled into the story of the P2, which bitterned his life and to which he was totally foreign. In this case, in fact - for the Italian habit of raising dusts, in which people are shredded for good - although it had nothing to do with it, as has been shown, his name was somehow muddled. However, he was a fighter and then passed that stage and again engaged in politics, diligently, attentively and in part, as he did. Gustavo Selva was also a religiously committed man of deep faith. Finally, I want to remind you that Gustavo Selva unfortunately happened the most serious thing that could happen to a man in life: three years ago, in fact, he lost a son. The Gustavo Selva of the last three years, for those who met him and spoke with him, was no longer the Gustavo Selva we had known, but he was a man who lived only in the memory of his son and said that, somehow, he had already died, because his son had left before him and therefore the future had gone before him. I think he was writing a book about his son: I don't know if he ended it and we should see if there are any drafts and if anything can be recovered. I want to quote this episode and its bitterness for the misfortune that struck him, to draw also the human profile of the character, which was beast radio, when politically expressed in such a rough way, but he was a man with his frailties and also with his ability to somatize the pain. He was above all a friend and a helpful person who never gave himself air. He's always talked to everyone. I could say that he was perhaps a figure of other times, but one of the great characters of the Italian post-war period that I personally miss today. We are the generation of Carosello, all educated and made with the mold, but the loss of these great personalities, who saw the war, the post-war and the great passions, certainly constitutes a void that will be difficult to fill in the future. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u17	TONINI (PD). Madam President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists joins in the mourning of this House for the disappearance of one of its illustrious members and in memory of a personality from which, of course, almost everything has divided us politically, except for the respect for the passion with which Gustavo Selva supported his reasons and beliefs. My personal memory is linked to the season in which he was President of the House's Foreign Affairs Committee while I had been a member of the Senate's Foreign Affairs Committee for a long time: in that capacity he had relations with our House and with our Commission. In particular, I recall the many international missions that the two Commissions have done together. In those circumstances, it was not easy, sometimes, to give our interlocutors abroad the idea of a country not divided, because certainly Gustavo Selva among its characteristics did not have to graduate the differences, but if anything to accentuate and radicalize them. Together we had to make the effort to try to give our partners at international level the idea of a country that, however, on the fundamental issues, beyond the political differences even very accentuated, especially in the harshest years of our bipolarism, had a common basis with which to relate. In this harshness of comparison, however, the memory I keep is that of a person who had the curiosity to know the point of view of others and also had the respect for those who thought differently from him about many things but who showed passion, sincerity and linearity of a similar background. It is with these sentiments that we join the memory of this House for a person who has certainly been a protagonist for many years in our political scene. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u18	The Presidency joins the words of condolence expressed by my fellow Members and invites the House to observe a minute's silence and recollection. [[The President stands up and with you the whole House, who observes a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u21	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask you a courtesy on behalf of the Northern League Group. Since we have to go to the Court of Cassation this morning to sign a referendum question and because we have to submit to the incoming controls, we wanted to ask, of course, whether all the other parliamentary groups agree, if it were possible to anticipate the suspension of the sitting by a quarter of an hour, then at least at 10:15 instead of 10:30, as planned.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u22	No objections were made by the Groups and the situation was taken into account, and I suspended the sitting until 12.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 10.06 a.m. and resumed at 12.33 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u23	The next item is: Information by the Minister of Justice on the tragic events that took place on 9 April at the Palazzo di Giustizia in Milan. After the intervention of the representative of the Government, each group will have ten minutes available. I call the Minister for Justice, Mr Orlando.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u24	Mr President, Senators, before explaining the information on the murderous events at the palace of justice in Milan on 9 April last, allow me to address my deepest condolences to the relatives of the victims Fernando Ciampi, Lorenzo Claris Appiani and Giorgio Erba and to express my closeness to the people seriously injured and to all those who have been involved. I would like to point out that any reference to relevant evidence and evidence relating to the events in Milan is offered to Parliament in due respect for the procedural prerogatives reserved to the judicial authority. Despite the dramatic evidence of the exceptional gravity of these events, which fell under the direct perception of many witnesses, it is necessary to adhere to fundamental criteria of prudence and rigour in the assessments. The first reports sent to the police forces of Milan indicated the presence of wounded by gunshots at the entrance of the palace of justice, Via Manara side, and on the third floor of the building, in the courtroom n. 2 of the second criminal section of the court. Numerous police operations immediately intervened at the site. The information assumed by soldiers of the Arma dei Carabinieri in the immediacy of the facts allowed to ascertain that Claudio Giardiello, while in the courtroom as accused of fraudulent bankruptcy, extracted a gun exploding several shots at the address of lawyer Lorenzo Alberto Claris Appiani and co-defendants Giorgio Erba and Davide Limongelli. On the same line of fire was the prosecutor appointed for the hearing, who, like the other persons present in the courtroom, was not pitiful of offense. Immediately afterwards, as soon as he left the courtroom, the Giardiello exploded at least two more shots at the address of Stefano Verna, an accountant doctor waiting to testify in the same criminal trial, wounding him to the legs. After the fire action, the Giardiello reached, on the second floor of the building, the office of Judge Fernando Ciampi, at whose address he exploded two shots of a gun, drawing it to the chest and causing its immediate death. An employee in the room was fortunately unharmed. Immediately, Giorgio Erba and Lorenzo Alberto Claris Appiani, died during emergency transport at the Fatebenefratelli hospital. Davide Limongelli was transported to the Niguarda hospital, where he is still hospitalized in reserved prognosis. Claudio Giardiello, on the other hand, managed to gain the exit, but, following the investigations, soon after he was arrested by soldiers of the Carabinieri's weapon in Vimercate, near a shopping mall. In the Giardiello's availability a gun was found, regularly held, but unlawfully carried to public places, still with a shot in the barrel and four bullets in the magazine, in addition to a second tank, containing 12 shots. 12:36 p.m. (Horland, Minister for Justice). The Giardiello, as reported by the prosecutor of Brescia, spontaneously admitted that he was the author of the crimes described, adding that it was his intention to kill also a former business partner, resident in Bergamo and accused in the same trial, but not present at the hearing, and then commit suicide. I would like to thank all the Forces of Order, and in particular the Arm of the Carabinieri, for the proof of efficiency and courage that has allowed to stop a probable criminal progression, preventing the tragedy from taking on even more dramatic proportions. The court for the preliminary investigation of the court of Monza, competent in relation to the place of arrest in the flagrant crime, had the validation of the arrest and applied to the suspect the protective measure of custody in prison. The magistrates of the prosecutor of the Republic of Brescia, functionally competent, have therefore assumed the direction of the investigations, enrolling criminal proceedings against Claudio Giardiello for the crimes of multiple murder, aggravated by premeditation and use of weapon, for attempted murder aggravated by premeditation and use of weapon, for serious voluntary injuries, as well as for abuse of weapons. A further procedure for the crime of omission of acts of office, borne by unknown persons, has been recorded in relation to the hypothesis that the entry of an illegally armed person into the Milanese palace of justice may have taken place as a result of the failure, or inadequate, adoption of necessary conduct. According to the competent judicial authority, the Giardiello, in the immediacy of the arrest, spontaneously declared that he entered the palace through the entrance of Via Manara - reserved for the exclusive access of judges, staff and lawyers - qualifying as a lawyer and exhibiting a document not duly checked. As far as the dynamics of criminal events and the seriousness of their consequences are concerned, it is hardly appropriate to point out that, in the state, no assessment can be made with regard to possible responsibilities - criminal, civil and administrative - which can be abstractly configured in relation to the adequacy of safety devices, in fact avoided by the author of those very serious crimes, and the adequacy of their supervisory functions. It is up to the competent judicial authorities to carry out this investigation, and in the current confidential investigation a general duty to respect the prerogatives reserved for the judiciary. As regards the characteristics of the plant designed for the prevention of risks to life and the safety of persons operating within the palace of justice in Milan, I indicate below the information communicated by the competent groups of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior. It appears, in particular, that the main access of the Milan courthouse of course of Porta Vittoria and those of Via Freguglia and Via San Barnaba are equipped with systems of baggage scanners and metal detectors, by decision taken by the competent maintenance commission. The access to Via Manara, from which the Giardiello would have entered, since last summer is reserved for lawyers, magistrates and administrative staff and is free of metal detectors. In general, all access control equipment at the Palazzo di Giustizia in Milan are audited and their efficiency has been maintained with constant routine maintenance. Also reported by the competent Directorate General of the Ministry and the Ministry of Interior, the supervisory services are entrusted by the Municipality of Milan to two private agencies, AllSystem SpA and Union Delta srl, on the basis of a contract signed on 17 May 2013 and still under execution. I think it is necessary to take a closer look at the more general, very sensitive issue of the safety of judicial offices and how many - judges, lawyers, administrative staff and users - work there every day. It should be pointed out in this regard that the current regulatory framework is characterised by objectives which are fragmented and disorganic. This is mainly due to the stratification over time of a complex set of norms, of primary and secondary character, but also due to the complexity of articulation of the multiple competences that the issue of safety in reality, necessarily, involves. In this area, the aspects of the protection of public order and public security are inseparably linked to the measures relating to the supervision and control of access to judicial buildings, the safety of magistrates exposed to danger, the safety of staff, lawyers and citizens. The safety of buildings located in judicial offices is highlighted in a number of ways: from anti-intrusion security measures - such as video surveillance systems, access control criteria, structural surveillance systems - to fire prevention and accident prevention, to health surveillance. The Ministry, for its general competence in the organization of justice services, has so far assumed the role of a centre of expenditure: direct, for the judicial buildings of the city of Rome and that of Naples; indirect, for all other buildings on the national territory, to whose operating expenses the Municipalities provide so far, with a view to the subsequent provision of a financial contribution from the State. In particular, the Directorate-General for Material Resources, Goods and Services of the Department of the Judicial Organisation of the Ministry of Justice has competence for the planning of purchases and for all that is necessary to adapt to the safety and fire prevention regulations, for state property. (at 12.42 p.m.) (Horland, Minister for Justice). This Directorate-General is also responsible for the coordination and verification of the administrative and technical procedures for municipal judicial construction and for the granting of the favourable opinion for the granting of the loan by the Deposit and Loan Fund; it also checks and checks the costs incurred by the Municipalities for the operation of the judicial offices for the purpose of determining and granting the State contribution. The Ministry then has a specific competence in the field of the application of the accident prevention legislation, since it authorizes and approves contracts for the assignment to external professional of the position of responsible safety officer and doctor. Finally, in the matter of so-called physical security, also related to the measures of protection of magistrates exposed to the risk of violent aggression, it was assigned to the prosecutors general at the court of appeal, by ministerial decree of 28 October 1993, an essential role in the district. I will return to this fundamental point shortly. Already from these brief references it is derived that the general power of direction of the Minister of Justice on all aspects related to the overall safety of judicial buildings is articulated through competences which secondary sources (decree and circular successions over time) have then distributed in the local context. Of course, the recognition of legislative sources cannot fail to take into account the general legislative source in the field of public safety constituted by Law No 121 of 1 April 1981. This law, as is well known, gives the Minister of the Interior general responsibility for the protection of public order and security, as well as the senior management of public security and order services and their coordination, which contribute decisively to the design of the security model resulting from the coordinated reading of the existing provisions. Moreover, the same, first mentioned distinction between internal security and external security of judicial structures, must be part of a necessarily unified vision of the requests involved in the overall risk to the safety of persons, requiring a harmonious connection of the different, specific competences and intense action to promote and guarantee the necessary cooperation between the various institutions concerned: central and peripheral administrations of the State, police forces, municipalities, judicial authorities. The intimate link between security activities and competences in the management of buildings intended for the purposes of justice found consistent reaffirmation and practical articulation in the Ministerial Decree of 28 October 1993. This decree takes into account the particularities of the judicial offices and, in particular, the high exposure to danger of the functions carried out daily in them and has been adopted precisely in order to provide, with uniform and uniform criteria, for the external and internal security of the structures in which the judicial activity takes place. The decree, also following the interpretation offered by Ministerial Circular No. 4 of 1994, generally defines the fields of intervention of the institutional authorities involved, conferring on the prefect the competence to take measures in relation to the safety and safety of the magistrates, as well as in relation to the external security of the structures in which judicial activity takes place. The decree, on the other hand, confers on the Attorney General at the Court of Appeal the competence to take the necessary measures to ensure the internal security of the structures in which judicial activity takes place, after hearing the prefect and the heads of the judicial offices concerned. It is with the exception of cases of absolute urgency, for which the Attorney General is entitled to provide without such consultation. I would like to point out that, according to the circular cited above, tasks are assigned to the Prosecutor-General which must be carried out with programme units and reciprocal integration of the aforementioned competences, so that, by expressing the prior opinion on the measures of the Prefect or by adopting internal measures of a technical-organizational nature, the objective is ultimately pursued to make effective the safety of the magistrates outside and within the structures in which they operate as well as safe judicial structures in themselves. The Attorney General at the Court of Appeal is therefore assigned a delicate, but essential, function of impulse and coordination between the requirements for the protection of the structure and those concerning the person of the magistrates exposed to the risk of retaliation and violent action. It is also clear that the public prosecutor's functional position, which is significantly identified by the framework examined, is a collector of information and proposals relevant to the functions of the public safety authority, and, on the other hand, as a decision-making centre in cases of emergency danger; a role which, moreover, comes to intercept the additional competences of the maintenance commissions established at all court of appeal. These commissions, whose responsibilities have been specified by decree of the President of the Republic of 4 May 1998, n. 187, also end, inevitably, with their choices, in order to affect the security of the judicial structures and of the persons who operate there, as they are invested of the most various logistic problems connected with the use and the distribution of the premises between the various offices. In the 1994 ministerial circular it is also appropriate to identify a line of discrimination between the competences of the aforementioned commissions and those of the prosecutors general, indicating how the ordinary management of the safety in the long term is naturaliter in the attributions of the maintenance commissions, whose collegial nature and participated from the local institutions allows a correct programming of the concrete necessities and relative interventions. In relation, on the other hand, to the housing of buildings and to the expenses which may result from the adoption of security measures taken in judicial structures and related organisational needs, it must be reiterated that the obligation to maintain and to carry out the custody of judicial offices rests, pursuant to Law No 392 of 1941, Articles 1, 2 and 3, on the Municipality in which the judicial offices (other than those of the Capital and of Naples) have their seat, without any competition in the same municipalities of the judicial district. In any case, as already mentioned, the Ministry of Justice has a specific competence, today exercised through the Department of the judicial organization, to authorize the required interventions in the matter of acquisition of goods and services, including those related to security, at the specific request of the office concerned. Having said this, as reported by the competent Directorate-General of the Department of Milan, any request for authorisation in relation to the security needs of the Milan courthouse has been punctually evaded and, on the date of the criminal event, no pending requests appear to be represented by the Milanese offices, no further issues of importance for security purposes. However, the situation and the legal framework outlined above are set to change radically shortly. As you know, in fact, the 2015 Stability Act, Article 1, has provided that, from next September 1, the expenses necessary for the operation of the judicial offices, currently charged to the Municipalities pursuant to Law No 392 of 1941, will be transferred to the Ministry of Justice. The overcoming of the management model of 1941, still chosen today for the generality of the Italian judicial offices, will result in very important modifications also of the competences concerning the safety of the Italian palaces of justice. The new provisions provide, moreover, for the adoption of an interministerial decree for the identification of the standard costs of the operating expenses of the offices and a regulation defining the system of organization to assign the tasks of management of the buildings in use to the judicial offices. The Ministry of Justice immediately activated itself to fully implement this important innovation on the operating costs of the judicial offices. On 26 February, for the necessary concert, the scheme of interministerial decree concerning the definition of the methodology of quantification of standard costs was sent to the Minister of Economy, pursuant to Article 1, paragraph 529, of Law No 190 of 2014. In order to ensure the necessary coordination of the overall competences involved by the transition to the new management model, I have, on 18 February 2015, promoted the establishment of a permanent table on the implementation of the management model of the judicial offices introduced by Article 1, paragraphs 526 et seq., of Law No 190 of 23 December 2014, with the participation of the Higher Council of the judiciary, the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, the Ministries of the Interior, the Economy and Finance, infrastructure and transport, public administration and simplification, the Agency of State and the National Association of Italian Municipalities. In order to adopt the fundamental regulation setting out the organisational model for the management of expenditure, a specific working group was set up for the analysis of relevant organisational, legal and technical issues, with the participation of all the administrative groups concerned and qualified professionalism selected between magistrates and administrative managers operating in the judicial offices. The work of the latter body has already led to the drafting of a first draft of a draft regulation, focusing on the need to identify in each court a structure competent to define the needs and criteria for intervention intended to find expression in the new system. It would not be responsible to fail to underline the exceptional complexity and the extreme difficulty of the organisational and institutional scenarios before us, which could not fail to match appropriate technical and financial instruments and resources. In these scenarios, a renewed and strengthened framework for virtuous institutional cooperation seems essential. At both central and peripheral level, the evaluation and decision-making mechanisms of the traditional, still in force, system for managing the functioning of the judicial offices and their security will have to be monitored and updated, starting from a necessary review of the composition and tasks of the maintenance commissions, to be identified as a fundamental technical assessment of the necessary measures for the protection of the palaces of justice. Similarly, the role of the general prosecutors as a driver, coordinator and link must be renewed and strengthened, strengthening their powers of intervention in the district, in order to ensure methodologies and safety levels tending to be homogeneous. Above all, the construction of a different security model requires that the regulatory framework essential to the rationalization and the strengthening of the effectiveness of police functions, even in the light of better cooperation on the territory, be directed towards the promotion of organisational models capable of interacting positively, on the assumption of the indispensable general value of the security of the places in which the jurisdiction of the State is exercised. Therefore, if, in general, the reform seems destined to have extraordinary impact on the traditional management structure of the judicial offices, as such immediately and profoundly incisive on the conditions of exercise of the ordinary jurisdiction, the implementation of the choices of the legislator of 2014 can constitute a useful opportunity to accelerate the construction of a new model of management of the interventions in the matter of security of the judicial buildings. With this in mind, it seems necessary to have the opportunity to rationalise and simplify the ministerial organisation related to the reorder scheme of the Ministry of Justice which I have prepared since 15 October 2014 and which is currently under consideration by the Council of State, with a view to the final approval of the Council of Ministers. Pending the establishment of the new general organisational framework for operating expenditure, action has nevertheless been taken on specific situations when safety requirements have been identified. I refer to the interventions for the security of the judicial offices of Palermo provided for in the law of stability 2015. In addition, some measures have been promoted for the detection and enhancement of the security of judicial offices. As already publicly announced, today I will meet the prosecutors general of the 26 districts of court of appeal, meeting at which I considered it essential to request also the participation of the president of the national council forensics. The opportunity is absolutely precious in the perspective, both of an updated and rigorous reconnaissance of the current conditions of exercise of the functions of risk prevention as well as of the search for organizational structures suitable to withstand the weight of the challenges that arise before us and that I have remembered. The outcome of this urgent survey will be able to define a picture of the priority actions, to which all the available resources can be allocated, in the awareness that the state of things in many areas is far from being able to be defined satisfactory, because it is heavily conditioned by the serious deficiency of the building structures, from year-old court disputes paralyzing the execution of many essential works and, more generally, from a long season of reduction of the public expenditure destined for justice, that it is now necessary to overcome and that the important innovations contained in the last law of stability allow to hope is now concluded. Above all, it will be possible, by acquiring the experience and proposal of the prosecutors general and of the Vetting, to define unitary guidelines to address the current, delicate phase of transition and to ensure an indispensable unity of the models of management of security problems in the judicial fora. Meanwhile, immediate provisions have been given for the judicial offices of Rome and Naples - the only offices for which to date the direct competence on management and related expenses is attributed to the Ministry of Justice - in order to quickly reach a rapid rise in those places of security conditions, aware that any effective progress in this field is possible only through the informative involvement and sharing of the working methods of all the components of the system. Again, in recent days the competent Department of the Judicial Organization has been given the directive to consider the matter of security as an absolute priority. Similar interventions are underway to raise the security levels of the main ministerial headquarters and all other offices of the Ministry of Justice. It is also represented that, on the day following the tragic events in question, the Ministry of the Interior addressed, through the Department of Public Security, a directive aimed at the immediate raising of awareness of the supervisory and safety measures of the objectives considered at risk. The Ministry of the Interior has also announced that, following the special meeting of police coordination held last April 10 in Milan, it has been decided for the territory of this Municipality a strengthening of the security device until October 31, 2015, through the activation of a dedicated dynamic surveillance service, by a reasonable garrison of military personnel, within the coordinated plan of control of the territory. Moreover, always with specific reference to the territory of Milan, it is already available to the prefect a quota of 1,238 soldiers belonging to the Armed Forces used in the Safe Roads operation, for the carrying out of surveillance services to sensitive sites and objectives, including those related to Expo 2015, in competition and in conjunction with the different police forces. I shall conclude with a more general reflection. The administration of justice is a function that involves the most important aspects of people's lives: personal freedom, heritage, affections. In the judicial offices every day decisions are made that can produce tensions and it is indispensable that in these places is assured and, as such, perceived a general security condition for all the people called to attend the judicial offices, despite the difficulties that from the logistic point of view and of the resources mark its concrete functioning. However, extraordinary efforts and resources must continue to be put in place to achieve uniform office security standards throughout the national territory in a reasonably short time. As has already been said, the prospect of assigning direct competence to the Ministry of Justice over the operating costs of all judicial offices is a challenge of exceptional difficulty, but which may allow, if won, to direct the security model of the future according to rules of transparency, efficiency, participation, sharing, uniformity and reasonableness. A shared and homogeneous model, which outlines the mechanisms of control and supervision of the external areas, of access, and of security of the classrooms and places where the procedural documentation is kept, also taking full advantage of the potential of technological innovations. In this direction, the Ministry of Justice will exercise the prerogatives deriving from the responsibilities assigned to the Guardasigilli by the Constitution. The terrible story of Milan, which has shaken public opinion and all of us, requires immediate and far-sighted interventions, investing all the energies and resources of the system. I believe, however, that the solutions to be put on the ground must be inspired by choices that tend towards a balance between indispensable measures to safeguard the places and the safety of the people, who access the judicial offices, and the need to contain the inconveniences for the users, avoiding that the typical effects of improper siege syndromes are produced. The excesses inevitably carry with them the risk of intensifying tensions and lead to counterproductive effects compared to the objective that we want to achieve: the security and tranquillity of the local communities that look to justice and its symbols with confidence and hope. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Barani, D'Ascola and Stefani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u25	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of Justice. Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u26	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I think that I should like to thank Mr Orlando for the information he has given us today, for which I particularly appreciate the fact that I am not based on purely rhetorical criteria and that I have entered into the substance of the matter. The Minister spoke not only about the emotional aspect of the affair, certainly present at the moment, but above all about the responsibilities, and for this I would like to thank him again. The Group of the North League, in these first days of tears and pain for the event happened, does not want to fall victim to exploitations or easy proclamations that can be made at this time. I speak of easy proclamations because, alongside pain and tears, there is definitely a feeling of anger on the part of those who would mean that it could be avoided. Personally, I am not sure that we could avoid what happened, because the minutes of madness that can darken a man are not always predictable. This event could have happened outside the courthouse, anywhere. Many years ago the magistrates were often victims of attacks. However, the very place where the event happened, namely the inside of the classrooms of a court, which should be the temple of legality, makes the event itself almost an outrage, a vile villain of the institution. Let us bear in mind, among other things, that, by their very nature, the magistrates and lawyers become a symbol of the activity they carry out, in that they embody not only the debate about the law but all the emotions that hang around a trial. Therefore, being aware, from the words of the Minister himself, of all the legislation concerning the various hypotheses of responsibility regarding custody in court and security, we wonder why only when events so unpredictable and exceptional happen in Italy are identified the flaws of a system. And in this case, too, the system flaws are there and there have been. In fact, responsibilities have been identified and a file against unknown persons has been opened at the competent prosecutor's office in Brescia. However, listening to the Minister's own words, it is clear that the responsibilities are laid down by law and that we are obliged to deal with this. We recall, in addition to what has been reported, that that point of entry into the court had been the subject of a particular question. Currently there is only one porter service at that point of entry and, therefore, people who do not have the skills and qualifications necessary to carry out the checks. There was no metal detector and the badges were checked on sight. Therefore, it is a system that reveals enormous flaws in itself, taking into account then that it is the court of Milan, that is, a place where the quarrels are managed. But it is also a place of interest that can be the subject of a type of events such as the one that occurred. Therefore, we are pleased that these assumptions have been highlighted also in terms of responsibility, because it is appropriate that justice exists not only in the common sense, but also in the final verdicts. We must also have special attention, a particular rigour and a particular firmness in the points of interest, while respecting the institutions, which must be able to work. We are in a historic moment when mud is being thrown on all institutions, including politics, magistrates and law enforcement. We must once again be firm, rigorous and respectful of the institutions and protect them. We do not allow a single event to bring down a system: it is an opportunity, - it probably could have been avoided and certainly should not have happened - to highlight certain situations and achieve a solution. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u28	Minister, the Group of the European Free Alliance and its socialist component, which I represent, also thank you for your not rhetorical and punctual information, which has reconstructed the facts, but above all imbued with a critical analysis on the planet justice and the perception - you wanted to use this term - of justice on the part of our citizens. His speech showed a critical judgment on our justice. Our Group has always expressed this criticalness, in the various interventions carried out, claiming that the work of the vast majority of judges, who do their duty, is frustrated by certain protagonists, who operate badly, create damage to the planet justice and that, therefore, should be isolated. When we told her that we must also act on disciplinary issues and civil liability, we did not say so much to say, for our will to punish those who are wrong, but because we want and demand that the sovereign people perceive the planet justice as such. It is obvious that the European Court of Justice, with its judgments, confirms the negative perception of the citizen. Minister - as you yourself reminded us - when a man is desperate, he is ready for inconsultable and insane gestures, but even more serious and dangerous is when society is desperate, when the multitude is desperate. And, therefore, we must be careful in finding a proper balance. To quote a Bible passage, there is nothing new under the sun: it is so and we knew it. It is the entire universe justice - I no longer deliberately speak of planet justice - that has been struck. There are no temples of justice: those who say that Milan is the temple of justice, do not know justice and do not know what democracy is. If we raise something at the temple, we don't understand what damage we're doing. We cannot talk about temple: that is a place where there are workers who every day, seriously, in the name of the Italian people - together with lawyers, texts, suspects and defendants, and for this reason I have spoken of the universe of justice - carry on the application of the law governing our Constitution, that is, democracy. This morning I heard the President of the House of More Democracy speaking on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of Liberation. There is no democracy anymore. Democracy is everything or nothing, there is or there isn't. Justice is there or is not there. That's the perception. That is why I believe that, in the case of Milan, we cannot talk about more or less security. It is a matter of ordinary madness that struck the court of Milan and that could hit the school of Canicattì or the church of Aulla. We are faced with a paradoxical situation in which the human mind - as sometimes happens - has made a bad joke. It was not only the planet justice or just the judge, but also the lawyer, the witness and the expert and, therefore, the entire universe justice. Minister, you come from my land, the Lunigiana, and you know the famous saying: Locking the doors when the oxen have escaped is of no use. It takes prevention. It is necessary to make that place perceive not as a temple, but as a common place of work. If we could do this, if we could pass on from our courts the message that there is the interest of the citizen and the nation, that democracy and freedom are governed there with all its derivatives, we would do a great act of prevention. We cannot indicate symbols, because they are then hit. True democracy, true justice, true freedom are the daily work done in a silent and serious manner, respecting the laws and judges, first of all, and citizens, technicians and all those who work. Reading that every year we have situations of bad justice is not good. But you, Minister, are working well. It is carrying out some important and innovative laws, even if criticized, that we are convinced will solve day after day the issue of security, which is intrinsic and does not deal with increasing surveillance. Security is the perception of justice and democracy, the perception of not bringing to despair the sovereign people, because otherwise we would not do a good service neither to the planet nor to the universe justice. [[Applause from Senator Bernini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u29	We greet the many students and students who follow, both from the first and second orders of the forums, our works. [[Applause]] They are students, students and teachers of the Institute of Secondary Education - Commercial Technical Institute Â Antonio Serra Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â. Quasimodo', Liceo artistico statale - di Cosenza, e studenti e dell'Istituto tecnico economico e tecnologico G. Tomasi di Lampedusa di Sant'Agata Militello, in the province of Messina. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u30	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the information which has made it possible for us - as has been said - to be local and to focus on certain aspects. The tragic event that struck the palace of justice in Milan certainly has the component of madness, which remains in the aspects and events difficult to calculate and on which it is difficult to act. It is also true, however, that the place where it happened reminds us of a not new problem. The problem did not start on 9 April: the previous one dates back to 2007 and happened in my city, in the court of Reggio Emilia, where a shooting led to the death of three people, including the killer, stopped before being able to reload the weapon and continue his massacre. Clearly, this forces us to reflect on the system of justice as a whole. It is clear that this is also a safety problem, but it is not just safety that we need to focus on. The problem also concerns structural deficiencies and building failure. In the court of Rome, and it is not the only one, it rains within the structure and, at the opening of each judicial year, deficiencies are punctually reported. It is also a matter of systematically indicated shortcomings in the workforce, which certainly have something to do with what has happened. In addition to crossing the court entrance, that wretched man moved inside the facility hunting for several - too many - minutes of his third victim. As far as the issue of security is concerned, it is certainly important what the Minister has told us, namely how new systems and new technologies can be used to make access to structures safer. But there is also the problem of restoring dignity and efficiency to the entire machine of justice. We must certainly spend more, because this is a reminder that comes from all the players in the sector, but we must also spend better and, especially at this delicate moment of passage - it is very pleased that the Minister has reminded us and pointed out in two points in his report - the transfer of competences from the municipalities to the Ministry. And this is an opportunity. It is a pleasure to note that the route chosen is that of a partisan route. In fact, we are convinced that in our country, characterized by a great diversity and diversification of the territory, and not only in the most geographically understood sense, but also in terms of social consistency and the difficulty of the population, at the level of photography of life itself, it is certainly fundamental that any path that provides for a centralization like the one in progress, that can be positive for better management of resources, is managed in the light of a participatory process. A path that has been taken part - in our opinion - is the only one that can then be followed in the detail of its application. The complexity of what will then have to be the practice of the new management really becomes a challenge in a country like ours, tending to be hostile and refractory to the diffusion and consolidation of good organizational practices. This challenge can only be met with the competition and the consent of all those who must participate in the good organization and who, for this reason, must also be motivated and remotivated. And, perhaps, only with a continuous and constant care, like what we hope will give the Minister and the whole Ministry, we will be able to consolidate good organizational practices. However, in the final analysis, I would like to add a reflection to the general speech made by other colleagues. Although, frankly, Senator Barani's connection to the issue of the civil responsibility of the magistrates seems presumptuous to me (he certainly takes up the issues dear to his colleague), and I certainly do not want to get involved in this, I would like to draw attention to one aspect, namely the general aggressiveness. What is striking about the gesture that has taken place is not just the fact that it happened and could have happened. I am interested in shifting the reflection on the fact that this is not an isolated episode, although - fortunately - such episodes are not frequent. The episodes of aggression against the institutions, public places or, in any case, representative of the State, certainly raise a great alarm that must be collected by all. Respect for institutions and public places - whether schools, courts or even parliamentary classrooms - must be managed, cultivated and protected in a collegial manner. And the first who must cultivate it in all forms are, in order, the highest and lowest positions, to reach those who are only the performers and representatives on the territory and, ultimately, the representatives of the institutions. This is a strong reminder, because respect for institutions is built in every way, and it is a collegial experience. [[Applause from the senators, Bencini, Simeoni and Panizza]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u31	Senator Albertini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u32	Mr President, I join with the condolences that the Minister expressed at the beginning of his speech. We have already done so collectively as a Parliament and I repeat it as a representative of my parliamentary group. And along with the mourning I express the hope that the suffering in which the wounded are found can soon be healed with a prompt healing. Now, however, it is time to address this issue from a different point of view than humanitarian. I thank the Minister for his timely and detailed presentation, but it is time to draw from what has happened - Oscar Wilde said that experience is the name that men give to their mistakes - from this tragic circumstance all the elements why these facts - not happened by chance, but caused by specific responsibilities - no longer have to repeat themselves. The Minister quoted the document of 28 October 1993 of the then guardasigni Giovanno Conso, who issued a ministerial decree conferring, for the 26 judicial districts, full and exclusive responsibility as security dominus to the Attorney General, in agreement with the other institutions, but under his supervision, as regards this subject. No later than November 2011, questioned on the point, the Ministry of the Interior answered the question coming from the palace of justice in Milan with the following words: "We can only reiterate the provisions of the law that define as sensitive objectives entrusted to the supervision of the security guards, if they do not provide you directly the Forces of order, sites where access is subject to control by radiogenic machines or detectors of metals or personal identification, for example courts and judicial offices in general". Then why was one of the four entrances of the Palazzo di Giustizia in Milan completely lacking the instruments suitable to ascertain the presence of weapons or metal objects in the luggage or on the person who entered it? According to another document of July 14, 2014, there is no longer this indispensable tool for security, and no one has reinserted it. Minister, we are not discussing here that a guardian has distracted himself, that the procedure has not been followed or that a disservice has taken place in a functional dimension. It is being discussed that an entrance to the palace of justice of one of the most important judicial offices in Italy, where 5,000 people enter, has been completely left free from any control. What has happened is to be blamed not on the lightning of a madman who struck with shots, but on the responsibility of someone who has not been able to change an intolerable situation. Now, you, Minister, have said that judicial investigations are under way, and among them, in addition to serious facts - that is, murder and injury - there is also the omission of legal acts against unknown persons. A well-known responsibility is that of the Attorney General. I ask you, therefore, to consider the possibility of an inspection on the territory, because you have the power and also the duty to ask it, if you think it necessary, also to ascertain the responsibilities not in the field of justice and the application of law rules, but in a framework of management of administrative facts - so to speak - for which some magistrates and, in particular, the highest investigator are responsible. Finally, in the last eighteen seconds that I have left, I would like to talk about a subject on the side, which has to do not with this fact but with our civil sensitivity. I carried out a brief analysis and found that, over the last thirty years, nine mayors have been killed in their offices for facts related to their institutional function, not because they were involved in organized crime, but because some citizens had not obtained a home or some other pleasure they asked for. I repeat, 9 out of 8,047, and the same number are the victims of the judiciary, at the same time, out of 10,151 magistrates. Now, I do not ask to reduce the condolences, the commitment or the sensitivity that we have all shown for what happened and which included, among other things, a magistrate from Milan. I only ask that similar respect and similar sensitivity can also be addressed to other institutions of our country, in addition to the judicial one, which also carry out their functions often with great generosity and - as we see - with risk of life. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and FI-PdL XVII and Senator Susta]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, your report, consisting of numbers, data and circulars, very technical, precise and thorough, cannot hide that there is more than figures, numbers, dates, responsibilities and so on. And that there is something else the President of the Republic has highlighted, in the highest and most important place where he could express the concept: in a session of the Supreme Council of the judiciary convened in the immediacy of the facts. In a few heavy words the President of the Republic, speaking at the plenum, said that all forms of discredit must be rejected against the magistrates. But to whom was this warning addressed, colleagues? In the wind? Nobody, and he passes through these classrooms without us arguing about it? Or was it addressed to someone, to some political force, to someone who has a responsibility for the climate that came to be created and that is certainly part of the problem, such as unsupervised doors, if some insanity comes to mind going to a court to kill judges, lawyers and witnesses, the protagonists of the trial? Who has cast discredit on the magistrates in recent years? By whom did the magistrates feel slapped? It is before everyone's eyes and it is clear that the President of the Council Renzi tries to carry out a demolition work of the jurisdiction, already advanced by Silvio Berlusconi. Who said that Italy is the homeland of law and not of holidays, Minister? A drunk at the bar? No, Minister, colleagues. That is what our President-in-Office of the Council said. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And he was reckless and reckless. He is a President-in-Office of the Council who cannot measure words or adapt them to the role and function he plays. And what has this majority, Alfano, Berlusconi and Renzi, put in place against the main emergencies of this country? An effective rule against corruption? No, the first thing to be done - right, out of charity, and duty - was a law on the responsibility of judges. It is not necessary to remember the Berlusconi of old, when he said that the judges were the cancer of democracy, anthropologically different and mentally ill. No, just remember a very serious and tragic fact, read in the light of what happened a few days ago: the assault on the same palace of justice, carried out by a group of parliamentarians, including the Interior Minister Alfano. Well, Minister: not only a judge died in Milan, but also a lawyer. You see, the defensive ministry has also been debased and outraged in recent years, which will be remembered as a second sad night of the Republic, Minister. How can we fail to remember, in this context, the unholy increases in the costs of justice and the shameful unified contribution made by this sick policy as a real gate to bar the citizens of this country from access to justice, creating despair and anger? We cannot fail to remember that here. And how can we not consider the attack that has been brought to legal aid as a subversive of our constitutional system? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , preventing it in fact and leaving thousands of desperate and defenceless citizens? Or worse, Minister, by putting lawyers in the sad condition of having to choose between leaving citizens defenceless and defenceless or not providing for their own needs and their own family? No, Minister: in conclusion, what is needed in this country are not trucks in front of the courts. It takes a new political class to put itself at the service of this country [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , and not the mafias, lobbyists, or the interests of corruption. This class already exists and has just begun: it is the 5 Star Movement! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u36	Minister, I would like to thank you for your comprehensive responsibilities report, which will be the responsibility of the authorities responsible for determining, where appropriate, criminal or disciplinary matters. I am interested to point out that only a murderous fury allowed three people to be killed and wounded during the fulfillment of their specific duty (because even the defendants were there for duty of presence in the courtroom). I am much more interested in determining responsibilities, Minister. And I note with satisfaction the words you have spoken in relation to the activity that the Ministry will have to carry out, in compliance with the competences of the Attorney General and the maintenance committee. Minister, however, I am very concerned about the need to ensure that citizens have - and continue to have in the future - the possibility of seeing the courts as a place of freedom, where they can turn to judges who can listen to their reasons and their troubles. It is with this spirit, Minister, that I took possession of my duties as magistrate in that palace of justice in Milan, which, before terrorism, was always open, even at night - as the President will recall - because on the third floor there was the barracks of the policemen of Porta Vittoria. And so we experienced it even after terrorism, so many of us did not postpone or replace the magistrates who arrived late for the ranks that were created in front of the palace of justice. And we have still lived it - I personally - as a place of freedom (for what Senator Giarrusso said now) when we went as parliamentarians of the People of Freedom in front of the palace of justice in Milan: a place of freedom where we had to challenge not a trial, but the choice of the judge not to take into account the necessity that parliamentarians and lawyers had to attend the meeting of parliamentary groups, that is to say an appointment of constitutional importance. So, in the face of this, we must have more concern today to reaffirm the principles. Fernando Ciampi was a friend of mine: for forty years we have argued and fought for the judge to have the chance to have the loneliness, unlike what I have read these days. Loneliness is characteristic of the magistrate's role, and President Grasso knows it better than I do. It is a loneliness that accompanies him all his life. The magistrate, however, must have the possibility to rely on structures that give him the opportunity to do his job. On the other hand, how do you not recognize the strong function of the lawyer? Claris Appiani, son of a lawyer I met in court and who I learned to appreciate, had a great professionalism. Beware: the professionalism of the lawyer is important, because it is the only instrument to ensure the practical application of the principle of equality of citizens. The citizens before the law are equal if they have the opportunity to be professionally assisted, today, by serious professionals in front of the flood of laws. Minister, you still have only one responsibility, and that is not what you mentioned in your speech, which I also applauded. Let's reflect together on the port of arms and current disciplines. Let's reflect together, also in view of the upcoming public events, from Expo to more. We need to ensure that people in freedom can participate without worrying about their existence. That freedom, Minister, we guaranteed it at the time of terrorism, ensuring processes that would keep the guarantees for the citizens firm. I believe that, in the same spirit, we must prepare ourselves for those security measures that do not transform the courts into bunkers, where the citizen would feel a lack of willingness to listen that is necessary, and that the President of the Milan appeal court, having read his statement, recalled as the duty of the judges: to be willing to be present not only at the hearing, but also for the effective listening to the needs of the citizens. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cociancich. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u38	Mr President, yesterday in Milan, on an extraordinarily hot afternoon, in a climate of particular composure and justice, the State funerals of Judge Fernando Ciampi and lawyer Lorenzo Claris Appiani took place and, shortly before, in Monza, those of Giorgio Erba, to which you, Mr President, very appropriately considered that you wanted to participate: therefore a judge, a lawyer and a citizen. All around the city was running around with the frenzy and agitation of all time. Milan is a city - my city, which I loved so much - that tries to survive its tragedies, its anguish, its contradictions and sadness with a surge of vitality, and that celebrated the Salone del Mobile, which hosts so many citizens, investors and visitors. Sometimes Milan tries to survive with a vitality that almost borders on indifference. Inside, in the shadow of the cathedral, were the authorities, the highest representatives of the institutions, the judiciary, the lawyer, families and friends. I will not talk about the broken life of the young colleague, Mr Claris Appiani, because he has already done it with beautiful words his mother two days later, remembering, in particular, how much he had at heart the oath of lawyer, which reads: Aware of the dignity of the forensic profession and its social function, I undertake to observe with loyalty, honor and diligence the duties of the profession of lawyer. Just to keep this promise, attorney Claris Appiani fell into a courtroom. I'm not even talking about Judge Ciampi, who spent his whole life in that courtroom. It was said that he was alone. In reality, the magistrate is always alone - says our Constitution - in the company exclusively of the law, which he tries to interpret second science and conscience. This is what Judge Ciampi has done all his life, and I believe that is why he deserves our deep respect and gratitude. I will not talk about Giorgio Erba, a citizen, an entrepreneur overwhelmed, with his own killer, in an economic affair of successes that then turn out to be failures, hopes that are reduced to despair, friendships that become hatred. This is also the daily life of so many of our fellow citizens who try to keep their heads out of the water at a time when the problem of many is to be able to stay afloat. Nor will I speak of the issue of security, on which the Minister has already spoken, which is certainly fundamental. The words of the President of the Appeal Court, Dr. Canzio, were sufficient. But he emphasized one important thing: that the court should not be allowed to become an armored fortress; the palace of justice is the home of all citizens. Many efforts have recently been made by the Court of Milan to make this place of celebration of justice a place open to citizenship. Minister Orlando has opened a few days the Office's relations with the public of the palace of justice in Milan, an important initiative that allows us to keep open this permanent dialogue with citizenship, and it is important that this story does not make us back on this effort, on this attempt to maintain a dialogue, a conversation, a capacity to feel citizens active also in this place so sacred where justice is celebrated. I would just like to make a brief comment, Mr President, which is also why I believe that this is a matter for us all. We cannot be resigned to the fact that there are two cities: one inside the cathedral, the other outside in the streets; one silent in front of those coffins and togs, the other outside in search of a better future, which is always late to come. We, magistrates, lawyers, politicians, citizens, are all united by the same destiny; together we must have the ability and the will to find the way. And it is a pity that even in this circumstance there are those who have tried to sell their political goods and to make them an advertising battage, which this affair did not deserve. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Buemi and Bruno]] It was written: It was the best days, it was the worst days, it was an age of wisdom, it was an age of madness, it was a time of faith, it was a time of unbelief, it was a season of light, it was a season of darkness, it was the spring of hope, it was the winter of despair, every future was before us, and the future we had not, heading towards paradise, we were heading in the opposite direction. Mr President, I hope that this will help us all to find a way to build a more habitable, more just city where there is no fear. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u39	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister of Justice, whom I thank for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u40	The next item is the holding of questions. Question 3-00800 on the discipline of hunting will be dealt with first. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy has long been committed to finding a solution to a number of problems relating to the scope of the law of 11 February 1992, No 157, which lays down rules for the protection of homeopathic wildlife and for the collection of venatory animals. 13.45 p.m. (Following Olivero, Deputy Minister for Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy). With this in mind, in agreement with the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, with the coordination of the Agricultural Policy Commission of the Conference of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, in April last year was established a table of comparison with the task of examining the main criticalities of the hunting activity and sharing a proposal of normative update. At the last meeting of the table on 26 February, also in the light of the recent opening of the EU Pilot procedure, case 6955/ENVI, by the European Commission, the issue of the preparation of hunting calendars was addressed, among other things. I would remind you that this procedure was opened since the European Commission saw a clear contrast between the hunting calendars approved by many Italian regions in 2014 and Article 7 (4) of Directive 2009/147/EC. In particular, in the absence of management/conservation plans, some species of birds in a state of unfavorable conservation would be hunted in our country, while others would be hunted during the prenuptial migration phase (i.e. until 31 January), a period in which the return migration to the nesting areas would already be ongoing in Italy. In order to give appropriate answers to the European Commission on the Open Pilot and to avoid an infringement procedure, the table identified the issues on which a common position would be necessary. In particular: the commitment of the Regions to provide, in accordance with the procedures and the timing provided for by the interministerial decree of 6 November 2012, full reporting of data on the hunting harvest of the 2013/2014 season and then on the current season, in order to improve the knowledge base and determine the influence of the methods of sampling on the level of populations; the reporting to the European Commission, in the context of the fitness check of the Birds Directive, of the importance of a mechanism that allows greater flexibility in the modification of the annexes to the Birds Directive and, likewise, of a coherent scheme for the whole Europe of the dates of the beginning of the prenuptial migration and the end of the dependence of the little ones. A commitment by the Regions is also expected to draw up their hunting calendars in accordance with all the sustainability criteria laid down in the Birds Directive: dates of end-of-dependence of the small and beginning of prenuptial migration, the state of conservation, the presence and implementation of management plans for species in poor condition, measures to avoid the possibility of confusion between similar species and the disturbance to non-target species. All of these elements, provided for in the Directive and referred to in the EU Pilot, are the basis of the guide for the drawing up of hunting calendars pursuant to Law No 157 of 1992, as amended by Community Law 2009, Article 42, drawn up by the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA). Deviations from what is indicated by the guide may be introduced within the limits set by the current legislation. It also provides for the submission of appropriate requests for changes to key concepts, to be transmitted to the European Commission and the establishment of a time schedule for the progressive production of management plans by ISPRA for all species in poor conservation status. In any event, on 23 January, the Ministry of the Environment sent the required information to the European Commission under the EU Pilot system in question. Moreover, taking note of the extension of the period of venatory exercise until 31 January laid down by some Regions for the species of birds mentioned above, the aforementioned Ministry recalled the failing Regions, inviting them to revise the closing dates of the hunt. Most of them have done so; for the Regions that have not made changes to their hunting calendar (Liguria, Tuscany, Umbria, Marche, Veneto and Friuli-Venezia Giulia), the Presidency of the Council of Ministers has deliberated the exercise of the replacement power referred to in article 8, paragraph 4, of the law 5 June 2003, n. 131 amending the hunting calendars in question with six specific resolutions adopted at the meeting of the Council of Ministers of 20 January 2015.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u42	Today there is in the Hall a representation of students of the Istituto comprensivo statale "Emanuele Falcetti" in Apice, in the province of Benevento, to which we address our greetings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u45	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr Vice-Minister, thank you for your contribution to this House on a little recurring issue, but which, on the contrary, also seems to be of interest to a growing number of citizens who see administrative and regulatory anomalies as not negligible. The act I filed was just over a year ago. In the meantime, the operating scenario that determined it has definitely changed. On the other hand, the difficulties faced by hunters or those interested in hunting do not change when, for example, an administrative appeal is made to suspend the hunting calendar following the precautionary request made by the applicant parties. Beyond the case of the species dealt with in the act, what emerges, are the criticalities that can arise in reference to the connection between national and regional legislation, considering that the latter is bearer of territorial peculiarities. Therefore, when legitimate specificities are identified, these are given priority over the national regulatory scenario. And on this very aspect, often not understood, the appeals referred to in the present case are determined. There was a regional regulation which, according to the rejected action, seems not to be in line - among other things - with some of the ISPRA's observations. But as the sentence of the Lazio TAR emphasizes, the Lazio Region has considered it inappropriate to adhere to it providing exhaustively of the arguments, precisely because of the assessment of the territorial peculiarities. Let it be quite clear, Mr Vice-Minister, that with these reflections it is not at all intended to express a judgment on the exercise of certain activities, such as hunting, which can be shared or not. But it is stressed the need that, if these are exercised in a harmonious and consistent manner with the laws, they would deserve to be always protected, as well as guaranteed, especially when there is a specific right in the field operator, legitimized and strengthened by the payment of a specific regional tax for hunting activity. A law of recent approval in the Lazio Region could be framed as a good practice, such as the establishment of a regional structure, also composed of a scientific committee, whose work can avoid the application of possible constraints, especially in terms of restrictions on hunting periods, in order to protect the territorial specificity. An orientation that also includes collaboration with the management committees of the territorial hunting areas. An approach which, in my opinion, is in the right direction, and which could be a reference for legislative initiatives in this area, including on the national front. So, rules, discipline, but freedom of hunting art.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u46	Question 301021 on the regulation of citizenship rights for children of stateless persons and asylum seekers follows. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the question on the agenda, Senator Gasparri asked to know whether he would answer the truth that the Ministry of the Interior intended, merely by means of a circular interpretation, to extend the purchase of citizenship on the basis of ius soli to children born in Italy by beneficiaries of international protection, along the lines of what the sector legislation expressly provides for minors born in Italy by stateless parents. In fact, the problem that this administration has dealt with is not that highlighted in the question, but that of avoiding that within the family of a foreigner with international protection could lead to an unreasonable difference of treatment between minor children. In fact, according to a previous orientation, the international protection granted to the foreigner was automatically extended - by express provision of law - to the minor children present in Italy at the time of the submission of the application by the parent, but not to the minor children who arrived or were born on the national territory at a later time. The National Commission for the Right of Asylum has taken action to revisit this interpretation, relying on some recent regulatory changes that have further strengthened the principle of the protection of family unity, by affirming the priority character of the child's interest. In particular, this body, with an interpretative circular dated 17 July last year, has clarified that even children born or arrived in Italy after the recognition of international protection to the parent benefit, until the age of age, of the same protection. Consequently, the Department of Public Security has been invited to provide appropriate instructions to the police for the inclusion of children born in Italy in the documents issued to the holder of international protection. I assure you that this circular has in no way affected aspects of the acquisition of citizenship, governed by Law No 91 of 1992. Any modification of the principles on which this law is based will only be subject to thorough evaluation in Parliament. With the question, Senator Gasparri also asked the Government a general question, that is, what initiatives it intended to undertake, during the Italian Presidency of the European Union, to start a dialogue on migratory flows and the reasons for them towards our country. Of course, I will give a final answer to this question on the basis of the work carried out and the results achieved. The Italian Government's commitment during this six-month period was aimed at creating attention and consensus on its proposal for a reinforced control of the Union's external borders, with particular reference to the Mediterranean quadrant, to be achieved through greater involvement of the Community institutions and other Member States in the activities of maritime surveillance and the management of migratory flows. The result of these efforts was the launch of Operation Triton, aimed at combating illegal immigration and trafficking and trafficking in human beings, resulting in the disposal of Operation Mare nostrum. In order to combat these criminal cases, police cooperation between Member States and third countries, particularly African countries and those bordering Syria (Jordan, Lebanon, Turkey, Iraq), was strengthened, with Europol also involved in collecting all relevant information. The objective on which the government is now focusing its attention is twofold. Firstly, to increase the levels of partnership between the European Union and the Member States in operation Triton and, more generally, in border management activities on the Mediterranean. This is a very topical issue, given the intensification of migratory flows in recent days. Moreover, the European Commissioner for Migration, Home Affairs and Citizenship, Avramopoulos, said in recent days that the countries that target migratory flows, Italy in the first place, must be more supported in their efforts in the sector and, in this sense, assured that the European Commission is ready to do its part, also because of the report of the UN delegate, who has pointed out that Italy suffers the greatest burden in terms of the honesty of the assistance given to these people. The other objective that the Government is working on is a profound review of European asylum policies, based on the principle that reception is a specific task for Europe, as a political and institutional entity, and not a single country. The assertion of this principle goes as far as amending or at least mitigating the basic principle of the Dublin Regulation, which limits the scope of the asylum seeker's rooting to the first port State. This is a principle of clear iniquity, both to asylum seekers and refugees, who are impaired in their rights and expectations of family, social and working life, and to those Member States which are external borders of the Union. Aware of the clear opposition of the large majority of the Member States to the elimination of the principle in question, during the Italian Presidency we proposed a flexible application of the principle, which takes into account, for the determination of the competent State, family factors (I refer in particular to reunifications) and the interest of children. In addition, we have put in place the proposal for mutual recognition of asylum decisions, drawn up at the very time by the European Commission. We are also stimulating European and international accession to another solution, which operates according to the different principle of anticipating the decision on the application for international protection, entrusting its examination to outposts of the European Union established in the countries of transit of migrants. These same outposts, in cooperation with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (CNUR) and the International Organisation of Migrants, could decide, according to preventive agreements between Member States, also the destination of the migrant. This could lead to the drastic decline of mass exodus towards our country. During the Italian Presidency, the European Union's dialogue with third countries of origin and transit of migratory flows was further deepened, with a view to establishing a more articulated response to the root causes of migration. In this context, the Mobility Partnership with Jordan was signed in October 2014 following the successful conclusion of similar agreements with Morocco in 2013 and Tunisia in March 2014. In addition to those mentioned, partnerships were signed with Moldova, Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan, while negotiations on the signing of a partnership on migration, mobility and security were formally launched with Lebanon last December. As far as regional processes are concerned, the Italian Presidency organised two important conferences at the end of November with the partners of the Rabat and Khartoum processes with the aim of involving the West African, Central African, Mediterranean and Horn of Africa countries responsibly on migration issues. These are the main initiatives taken by our country during the semester of presidency. I can assure you that they will also receive a strong and decisive impetus from us in the wake of the strategic importance of migration policies for the future of Italy and Europe.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u50	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to thank the Deputy Minister for his reply. The question was in June, on the eve of the semester. It is right to make the final statement, instead of being able to have information about the estimate. The time has passed; the semester is closed. With regard to circulars and aspects concerning refugees and stateless persons and the citizenship of minors, it seems to me that it should be stressed here that substantial changes cannot be made outside the scope of legal changes. We will deepen the examination of the circulars and directives that have been cited by Deputy Minister Bubbico. As for the question of the final, I have to do involuntary humor - I do it with respect and Senator Bubbico knows how I respect his function - because to speak of reinforced control requested by Italy during the semester on days like these is frankly a bit paradoxical. If Italy had not asked for reinforced control in the semester, what would have happened? During the Italian Presidency of the European Semester the transition from operation Mare nostrum to operation Triton with which - said the then and the current Minister of Interior Alfano and the then and current President of the Council Renzi - the arrivals would be finished. Only this morning I think 800 more foreigners have arrived and in the last few days there have been 10,000 arrivals. I read to the Deputy Minister, who may not be updated in real time, but now technology allows us to be very up-to-date, a statement released by the ANSA agency at 13:15 today. Since questions are answered almost a year later, at least we are updated in real time. A spokesman for the European Commission, Bertot, from Brussels says that the situation in the Mediterranean is serious and will worsen in the coming weeks and months. The Commission spokesman said, fifty minutes ago, according to the ANSA agency, that we must be frank and that the Commission cannot do it alone, that it does not have the magic wand because it does not have the funds, nor the political support to launch European rescue operations. Italy appealed to Europe and Alfano told us that Mare nostrum was ending and that the European Triton operation was starting. The function of Frontex, which, moreover, is based in Poland and has little means, was discussed. Frontex is no longer spoken of. In Italy, fashions pass. Frontex, the European structure that had to deal with immigration, has been mentioned. Now, this structure has not been dissolved and much less is being talked about or, indeed, not at all. The European Commission now says that it does not have the means and that it cannot do it alone. Then we should turn to other instances, to the United Nations. There should be camps in North Africa in order to understand which refugees should be launched with the co-responsibility of all, beyond the Dublin principles which limit themselves to the country where asylum is sought. What do we do? Who does what? The Italian semester was a disaster because it did not determine, Deputy Minister, the strengthened control, which is not there. The arrivals multiply. It is enough to read the newspapers; the sources of information available to us by the opposition are these and yesterday in the press we read about people taken from prisons in Libya, put on boats and carried away. These had not asked to be transported. Then they were loaded by military Navy vehicles or by the Italian Coast Guard. The traffickers then used weapons to prevent the recovery of vessels by Italian military vehicles in order to bring them back to Libya and use them again. There's an incredible situation. I appreciate the answer to the question, but it is obvious that these are issues that we cannot address by answering the question ten months later. We have to deal with them - I am also addressing the Presidency of the House here - in a very urgent parliamentary debate. We can't accommodate 10,000 people in three days. The estimates are huge, just read today's press and newspapers. The European Commission just told us that it cannot do anything. There is an international emergency that Italy cannot take on in this way with catastrophic and devastating results, not to mention the connections with the phenomena of terrorism, with the provocative and daring use of illegal immigrants to destabilize neighbouring countries. It was precisely this policy that Italy, in past years, ruled out with dialogues with Libya. Even then departures were used as a means of pressure and there were agreements. Today there is an absolute futility on the subject. I therefore believe that we should discuss this emergency which is devastating Italy as a matter of urgency in general.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u51	Following is the question 3-01337 on compensation for damages suffered by the Chiaraluna fishing boat in the waters of Trapani on 23 January 2011. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u52	Mr President, with the question on the agenda, Senator Santangelo, together with other senators, asks the Minister of the Interior what steps he intends to take to define the issue of compensation for the damage suffered by the Chiaraluna fishing boat, engaged on 22 January 2011 in the rescue of about 40 Tunisians on board a boat. The intervention, requested by the Finance Guard, had materialized in the rescue of the aforementioned migrants and in their transport to the port of Lampedusa. In the course of the mooring operations, due to the adverse marine weather conditions, the boat had suffered damage, bringing, in particular, a leak of about 20 cm. In relation to the matter, on 19 December 2011, the owner of the boat asked the Ministry of the Interior for damages, quantifying them in little more than 38,000 euros for emerging damage and in 120,000 euros for cessation of profit, the latter connected to the 37-day stop of the fishing activity, allegedly due to the technical checks and the repair. The prefecture of Trapani, competent to investigate the proceedings for the settlement of damages, concerned the district lawyer of the State of Palermo, in order to obtain an opinion on the legality and appropriateness of the application. In September 2012, at ongoing proceedings, the shipowner produced a further claim for compensation for the emerging damage for a total of 190,000 euros, plus 2,000 euros for each day of detention of the boat, testifying with sworn expertise that, as a result of the accident, there had been further damage to the engine due to a longitudinal misalignment caused by the impact. Such damage had not been reported initially, as it would have been evident about 18 months after the facts. It must be specified that the Harbour office of Mazara del Vallo, interested in the question, has found that the arrest warrant due to the repair of the breach had lasted only from 23 February to 6 March 2011, considered that in the latter date the fishing boat had resumed the normal activity of fishing, as a result of the technical authorization to navigation released from the Italian naval register after the appropriate technical checks. On April 30, 2013, the State vetting, in clarifying that the claim for compensation could be included in the discipline of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 388 of 1994, "configuring itself as the hypothesis of damage suffered by a private person as a result of an operation (the rescue) attributable to a typical function of maintenance of public order", considered the only damages proven to be attributable to the event and documented, amounting to about 42,000 euros for the repair of the breach and to 18,000 euros as fair compensation for the 12 days of detention necessary for the repair, for a total of about 60,000 euros. As for the damages claimed with the second instance, the employee has expressed negative opinion to the ulterior compensation demanded, considering not plausible the circumstance that the damages to the motor could have produced more than a year and a half after the accident, given also the authorization to navigation that - as said - had been released from the Italian nautical Registry. With subsequent application of 6 July 2013, the shipowner claimed further damages for loss of profit, relating to the detention of the fishing boat for 71 days, also declaring to accept the sum of 60,000 euros proposed by the administration only as a down payment of the highest amount due, not intending, consequently, to release any liberating quietness to total tacitation of any claim. Finally, with note of 6 October 2014, the lawyer of the owner of the fishing boat sent to the administration a new expert jury, with which they quantify all the damages caused by the impact with the rock in total 850.000 euros. In view of the repeated claims for compensation by the property, the Ministry of the Interior has obtained a new opinion from the State's District Insurance Office on whether or not it is appropriate to continue in the attempts, already in progress, to arrive at a bonary composition of the case and, if so, with regard to which damages and within which maximum amounts. The aforementioned legal body, in reaffirming the appropriateness of the sum of 60,000 euros, has emphasized how the procedure could be defined with the payment of such sum, to nothing worth the fact that the property of the boat had manifested the intention to accept this amount merely as a deposit on the greater sum claimed. I represent, finally, that at the end of last March the Department of Public Security has acquired from the prefecture of Trapani the documentation necessary for the payment of the sum in question and is preparing now the measure of authorization to the expense.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u55	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, citizens who listen to us from outside, I am partly satisfied with Mr Vice-Minister's reply. His description corresponds for general lines to what I had explained in the question, enriched by the last passages, however, for intellectual honesty, we remember that the compensation is not due to a hole of 20 millimeters, because this small measure tends to diminish a gesture that was important and that defining heroic would be reductive, by a group of workers who with their own boat have directed to save about 40 immigrants. I remember that the commendation was immediately given to both the commander and the shipowner and this shows the importance of the gesture. I am shocked at how it is possible that this affair came to 2015, seen and considering that the damage that the owner subsequently made to the ship is clearly due to the impact of the boat with the rock: we are talking about a misalignment of the axis of the crankshaft, a damage that could not be detected immediately but only at a later stage. I believe that this story must definitely end with a solution that excludes the failure of the shipowner in question and by applying that decree of the President of the Republic No 388 of 1994 which you yourself mentioned, which provides that the offices of the prefecture really do that sewing work between the two parts. Of course, we remember that the damage that you have quickly quantified - due to the narrowness of the times, of which I realize - in about 850,000 euros is divided into 150,000 euros for the repair of the crankshaft, 62,000 euros for the repair of the hull of the fishing boat and 537,000 euros for the loss of profit, for a period that is much longer. Objectively, in fact, the vessel is no longer at sea since 2013, so that damage, which is increasing day after day, cannot be left alone to the owner, the captain or the fishermen of those families who do not have a job. I therefore hope, Mr Vice-Minister, that there will be adequate attention to the specific case and that an appropriate solution will be found immediately in relation to what the shipowner has requested.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u56	Following is the question 3-01329 about alleged situations of sexual slavery in the province of Ragusa. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u57	Mr President, I would like to say that there are some 13,000 foreign workers employed in the agricultural sector of the province of Ragusa, of whom 4,350 are Romanian nationals, with a female workforce of 1,800: the latter is preferred to the male workforce for the greater willingness of women to accept lower levels of pay, as well as longer shifts of work. In general, workers live in crowded housing and poor sanitation conditions, which are sometimes made available by employers themselves. I would like to stress immediately that the criticalities connected with the employment of foreign workers in the agricultural sector of Ragusano have long been the attention of the police forces and, more generally, of the public apparatuses responsible for the control of agricultural work. For several years, in fact, a constant inspection and investigation activity has been carried out that has evidenced the presence of the caporalate, result sometimes contiguous with organized crime, together with the exploitation of irregular immigration and cases of trafficking of human beings. There was also evidence of sexual violence and psychological subjection to foreign citizens. The prevention and combating of these phenomena was particularly incisive in 2014. In particular, the Arma dei Carabinieri carried out various operations, concluded - as the case may be - with the referral in state of freedom of some corporals and agricultural entrepreneurs, with the imposition on them of administrative fines and the recovery of social security contributions not paid or with the suspension of the activity of agricultural holdings. In October last year the problem was examined in the prefecture of Ragusa, in the Provincial Committee for Public Order and Security enlarged to the participation of representatives of the judicial authority, the municipalities most concerned, the other public administrations concerned and representatives of trade unions and the private social. During the meeting, it emerged that the phenomena in question present profiles of complexity such as to require, in addition to the prosecution and administrative sanctions, specific measures aimed at the socialization and integration of foreign workers. However, the local administrators present at the meeting noted the need to avoid emphasising the issue that, in spreading a not entirely truthful perception of the factual reality, could have negative repercussions on that part of the local economy that is based on the trade of the products cultivated in the transformed agricultural belt of the Ragusano. Following the meeting, the prefecture took on the role of a cab of direction of the action of all the public and private subjects involved in the sector, providing, first of all, the establishment of an interforce group composed of staff of the State Police, the Arm of the Carabinieri, the Finance Guard, the Territorial Directorate of Labour, the Provincial Health Company, the INPS and the INAIL. The Interforce Group, which was set up last December, first planned the implementation of a series of inspections of certain farms which are likely to be affected by the presence of foreign workers. In the first quarter of this year the inspections were three in the same companies operating, respectively, in Comiso and Vittoria. These were very detailed investigations, as they covered at the same time the area of competence of each of the public administrations belonging to the Interforce Group. Illegalities and irregularities of various kinds have been found as a result of them. At the same time, the prefecture has activated a second working table with the participation of representatives of the municipal administrations of Vittoria, Acate, Santa Croce Camerina and Comiso and of the private social organizations, whose task is to monitor the situations of particular vulnerability and discomfort of foreign workers and to develop the necessary assistance initiatives in their favour, also in order to mitigate the criticalities related to housing problems. The table held several meetings in the first quarter of 2015. In this context, among other initiatives, the possibility of preparing, in the municipalities of Vittoria and Acate, places of meeting and aggregation for foreign workers, within which the operators of the third sector will be able to initiate projects of a social character, with particular attention to the needs of women. Similarly, the possibility of preparing instruments of a covenant nature aimed at enhancing the ethical behaviour of the Ragusan farms is being deepened, in order to spread the values of legality and, at the same time, to support the local economy. I would point out, however, that a number of social initiatives are already in place on the territory to provide reception and support services for foreign workers and workers. There is, for example, the project called Solidal transference, mentioned by Senator Padua herself, carried out by the social cooperative Proxima in partnership with the CGIL and the Vittoria work room, with which free transport services are provided to workers to and from the workplace, in order to emancipate them from the isolation in which they live in the countryside of Vittoria and Acate. This project has been operational since 2012 thanks to funding provided by the Department of Equal Opportunities and will continue until next 31 December. Also the diocesan Caritas of Ragusa is engaged on the topic, having started, in particular in Marina di Acate, an initiative known as Project garrison with the objective to provide foreign agricultural workers support for the most immediate needs as well as legal and health assistance. Coming now to the specific solicitation regarding the episodes of sexual violence against Romanian workers, I inform that, according to the official data of the four years 2011-2014, the phenomenon seems little significant in the workplace and substantially stable. In particular, two cases of violence were reported in 2012 and 2013, and only one in 2014. However, the attention of the law enforcement authorities on this criminal case is constant, so much so that with regard to the presence of possible victims of sexual violence, targeted investigations are being carried out delegated by the judicial authority also on the basis of data relating to abortions, volunteers and not, of Romanian women provided by the provincial health company, data that actually record anomalies. I would also like to mention an admirable initiative of a preventive nature by the Victoria Public Security Commissioner which, in order to establish a fruitful collaboration between the law enforcement authorities and the alleged victims of sexual blackmail, has started an information activity aimed at workers, both through the dissemination of informational prints in Romanian language, distributed on the means of transport used for travel to and from the country of origin, and through targeted interviews carried out even before their installation in the provincial territory. The journalistic sources to which Senator Padua refers in the question also point out the impossibility of foreign citizens' access to the benefits of voluntary termination of pregnancy. In this regard, the Director-General of the Health Company has announced that the relevant service is provided through three weekly sessions, one for each of the obstetrics departments operating respectively in Ragusa, Modica and Vittoria, with an average activity of 4-6 interventions per session. During the three-year period 2012-2014, there were 309 pregnancy breaks in foreign towns, 132 of which (42.7 percent) were in Romanian towns. On a more general level, I note that the Government is engaged in various initiatives to prevent and combat phenomena such as the one mentioned in the question on the agenda, initiatives financed with a series of specific funds. In addition to the rights and equal opportunities policy fund mentioned by the honourable Member herself, I would like to point out that the 2015 Stability Act has allocated EUR 8 million for the implementation of the Single Programme for the Emergence, Assistance and Social Integration of Foreigners Victims of Trafficking. Further initiatives were promoted last year by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy thanks to the European funds EIF and PON, which have allowed to include 271 young migrant women at risk of social exclusion, in individualised pathways to support employment, training and social inclusion. Also the Ministry of Labour, starting last year, has signed program agreements with 17 regional administrations, among which Sicily, for the programming and development of a system of interventions aimed also at promoting social integration and the employment integration of migrants for a total amount of 3 million euros. As far as I have just explained, I believe that I can assure you that the problems of agricultural work in Ragusano are the subject of careful attention from the public institutions that are taking responsibility for this, both through individual initiatives and through operational synergies between the various actors in the public sector and the private social sector, aimed at the common objective of guaranteeing to the many foreign workers present in Ragusano a dignified existence and respect for fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u60	PADUA (PD). Mr President, I feel the need to thank the Deputy Minister, who has responded very promptly to the important demands and great concerns that he wanted to put to the House my question, which, moreover, has been signed by many of his colleagues. I would just like to point out that the tables that the Deputy Minister has told us about were born following this question, so my thanks are not just formal. This means that the question has served, because it has been added to an action of solidarity born on the territory, as has emerged from his reply. In fact, the territory of the Province of Ragusa excels with regard to the solidarity and civic growth of citizens and citizens, but of course it can present, as we denounced in this question, isolated demonstrations of organized crime, even as we have been told. I would therefore like to point out that, alongside these entrepreneurs who must be prosecuted and denounced, as has been done and as will continue to be done, there is an agricultural entrepreneurship of serious, hard-working people who respect the principles of hospitality and standards. Having said that, I am happy with all this and I would also like to stress that, following the question that we presented last October, we have also carried out an important initiative on the territory, in the presence of the vice-president Fedeli and other personalities; we will continue to do so precisely to carry out a monitoring and to ensure that the fact of having lit the lights in this great darkness that unfortunately struck my Province can have a follow-up over time, therefore supporting what has been highlighted also in the answer, that is, giving confidence and overcoming the distrust of these women. Of course there are few complaints: there are already few women who suffer violence in conditions, so to speak, of normality; let's imagine the case of women who are in a condition of greater fragility because they are alone, do not have the family or are far from their country and do not even know the language; so ask us how they could denounce. It is therefore necessary to help them to grow, as has been done with small posters, demonstrating that they are close not only for an interest, but for human solidarity and respect for rights, helping them to come out. Above all, however, we need to act on the issue of integration, which is highly distrustful. I have also listened to the experience of serious priests, people and associations very present, who denounce the great distrust of these people: we must break this barrier, overcome this mistrust and make them grow in a path of awareness and trust. My thanks to the Vice-President Faithful and fellow signatories who are not present at the moment are strong, but I urge you not to lower your guard and be very vigilant. I also reiterate the health of a social fabric which, despite all this, is welcoming, supportive and consisting of serious and honest people, regardless of the bad situations we have denounced.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u61	The following are questions 3-01472 and 3-01664 on the application to victims of the duty to benefit victims of terrorism and organised crime. The representative of the Government may answer these questions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I reply in conjunction with the two questions with which Senator Di Biagio drew the attention of the Government to the disparity in treatment between the victims of duty and those of terrorism and organised crime with regard to the enjoyment of a series of pension-previdential benefits and more generally of an economic nature, almost a decade after the entry into force of Law No 266 of 2005 which provides for a path of progressive equivalence between the two categories of victims. In this regard he complained, in particular, about the inaction of the interministerial coordination technical table established for the purpose, since - in October 2012 - his leadership passed from the Presidency of the Council of Ministers to the Commissioner for the coordination of initiatives for the victims of crime of the mafia type, an incardinated body, as known, at the Ministry of the Interior. In this connection, I would like to say first of all that, under the chairmanship of the Commissioner, the technical table met six times, last on 10 March. The results of the meetings, which were brought to the attention of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, led to various administrative follow-up and were also intended to guide the legislative initiatives of the Government. In some cases it was necessary to involve the State's general bill for the purpose of obtaining the relevant opinion, unfortunately not yet expressed; this circumstance, which testifies to the complexity of some questions for a preliminary ruling to any intervention of regulatory extension to victims of the duty of the benefits already granted to victims of terrorism. On a more general level, priority was given at the meetings, as far as possible, to finding shared solutions to both categories of victims. At the same time, however, it was considered to devote particular attention specifically to the victims of terrorism and the massacres of this matrix due to the persistent application criticalities and inconsistencies of Law No 206 of 2004, the overcoming of which resulted in the need to intervene both in the 2014 Stability Act and in the 2015 Stability Act, through measures to supplement the rules on the benefits to that specific category of victims and their family members. This choice has been dictated by a principle, which is difficult to avoid, of legal logic. In fact, it seemed reasonable to first seek solutions to the problems of the victims of terrorism, and this is precisely in view of the postulate extension of their benefits to the victims of duty. I can assure you that, on the basis of the legal certainty gained, the technical table has already stepped up its propulsive action in the direction desired by the honourable Member and has scheduled periodic short-term calls. Responding now to a specific request contained in the question, runs the obligation to point out that the expenditure surplus of about 14 million euros, found in chapter 1389, management plan 3, of the Ministry of Defence for each of the years 2012 and 2013, demonstrates the difficulties to realize the complete equivalence between the different types of victims, in the current economic situation. In fact, these amounts do not constitute unused resources but, on the contrary, they exceed the expenditure foreseen for the payment of allowances to victims of duty and comparable categories. Senator Di Biagio has also asked to know what are the burdens, for a single item of expenditure, resulting from the extension to the victims of duty and their equivalent, of the additional provisions still missing. I inform you that, within the framework of the work carried out by the technical table, the total requirement for the equalisation operation has been estimated at around 688 million euros over a decade, divided as follows: approximately 413 million euros for the provisions referred to in Articles 2, 3, 4 and 7 of Law No 206 of 2004, about 160 million euros for the adjustment of the benefits referred to in Article 5 of the same law n. 206 and about 115 million euros for the adjustment of the benefit referred to in Law n. 407 of 1998. However, these spending projections are being updated in the light of the 2015 Stability Act which, as mentioned above, has further complemented the discipline of the benefits to victims of terrorism and their families. In conclusion, I want to make sure that the problem of extending the benefits of victims of terrorism and organised crime to victims is the subject of constant attention by the Ministry of the Interior, the Commissioner for the coordination of initiatives for victims of mafia-type crimes and the other administrations involved. All the more necessary attention should be paid to the fact that the desired equivalence concerns categories of civil servants responsible for tasks which constitute the fundamental pillars of the State's very existence. As proof of this, I represent that at the last meeting, held - as I said - on 10 March last, the technical table, in compliance with the agreed agenda, has given itself the objective of preparing, no later than the end of the current year, a concrete proposal aimed at overcoming the critical issues that slow down the path of equalization between the two categories of victims. The proposal will be submitted to the Government for the assessments of competence in respect of the initiatives to be put in place for the implementation of the equivalence; initiatives whose adoption cannot be excluded, among other elements, from the simultaneous identification of the coverage of the estimated financial burdens.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u65	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, kind Deputy Minister Bubbico, I am very pleased that today the Government has answered my questions about the victims of duty, showing attention to a problem concerning the recognition of merits and protections to the servants of the State. On several occasions I have pointed out the paradox that concerns the complex discipline in the matter of victims, where we have a will of the legislator that comes from afar, even since 1980, which is the will to give a just and proper recognition to those who have served the State at the price of a huge personal sacrifice. But this will has then diversified, over time, in occasional and fragmented interventions by category, so today we have mass-A victims and mass-B victims, and even mass-C victims, depending on the protections granted, as if, I repeat, the original bullet made the difference. I thank you, Deputy Minister, for the evidence you shared with us today. I know very well how difficult it is to take stock, even administratively, of the quantifications and administrations concerned. On all this, however, there is no organicity, homogeneity and coordination. I recalled, in my February question, the Court of Auditors' report on the 2013 financial year, which recorded surpluses of 14 million, in 2013 and 2012, on certain expenditure chapters of an administration involved, relating precisely to allowances for victims of duty. However, the adjustment of the life allowance of all victims of duty - and therefore of all the administrations involved - has an estimated cost of less than EUR 8 million. Why were the surpluses not used to start adjusting the cheques? Surely there will be plausible reasons, perhaps in the autonomy of the individual administrations involved. But it remains a paradoxical fact, that the victims and their relatives can hardly understand and that it sounds, in the ears of public opinion, more like an administrative inertia than anything else. I hope that the recent shift at the top of the technical table will be an opportunity to resume work and I urge you to do so. In fact, Mr. Deputy Minister, it is not possible that the technical table has met six times since 2012, or only three times a year: it is an inezia. In fact, even the technical table, prepared precisely to carry out the equivalence and coordinate the administrations, was able to work well in the early years, but then had a drastic setback. It is interesting, in this sense, that the most profitable years for the table were those in which a delegation was active to define a single text on victims, but it was not elaborated, since the delegation failed. I believe that today we need to resume work on the single text in order to finally give consistency to the interventions and respond to the expectations of the hundreds of victims and their families. The single text must be a clear objective and must be pursued through a resumption of the work of the table, which can effectively direct the government's action. It is clear that there are costs, but the recognition of the sacrifice offered to the homeland by so many of our fellow citizens cannot stop at a cost problem. Will it be necessary to plan? Let's plan! That is why I felt it was essential that we take stock of the costs per item of expenditure. This is the first step towards equalising benefits, which must be followed by a certain timetable for regulatory action. Shall we begin with the adjustment of the life allowance? Do we want to refinance the grant fund? Let's start from one point, but let's get on with it! I would like to remind you that behind the words "victims of duty" there are names, faces, lives, people, who deserve respect and a concrete commitment of the State, who has received their sacrifice and now must honor them. We will not lower our guard on this, and I am sure you will agree with me, Mr. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u66	Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u67	Mr President, I would simply like to report to the House that the 5 Star Movement Group, pursuant to Rule 79 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, has drawn up its own draft law No 1724.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u68	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u69	Mr President, a few days ago I denounced in this House the fact that we are back to normal: after what happened in Milan, we also saw in Bologna a new direct assignment to a Mr Farinetti, who, at this point, would say, is an "Oscar's Lord." On that occasion I announced that we would prepare a question, which we have tabled on time today (the 3-01861), and I would also like to remind you here of the reasons which led us to write it. In Milan, the president of the Anticorruption Authority Raffaele Cantone asked to view the cards that led to the direct award of an Expo 2015 showcase in Eataly, Oscar Farinetti, to understand if the procedures were carried out correctly. The same thing is happening in Bologna, but with the additional sacrifice of a public heritage, such as that of the agro-food centre, which participated 95 percent by public partners, such as the Municipality, the Region and the Province, to make way for the FICO, the Italian Farm Factory, which in the minds of its creators should become the largest world center of agri-food, to celebrate the Italian agri-food heritage and its beauty. Instead, we know that this operation hides behind a fig leaf - excuse the play of words - coated with ecologicalism a coacervo of waste, the disruption of a young architectural structure (it has just fourteen years of life) and a plant that will be strongly energetic. Also - hear hear! - Disneyland, which should celebrate the beauty of the agri-food industry, will be located a few hundred metres from the HERA waste incinerator in Bologna. All this without considering the activity of construction speculation that will be activated, considering that a few years ago they were approved of projects of conversion of 85,000 square meters of surrounding area, from productive area to residential and commercial use. All this happened in a deafening silence - the Municipality of Bologna has the Junta to guide PD and SEL - broken only by the denunzia of the 5 Star Movement, I want to say it. This has in fact served on a plate of silver to Farinetti and his Eataly this huge heritage without having proceeded with an assignment by public auction or public evidence and without that the society chosen as general contractor of the whole operation, that of Farinetti, could boast a previous experience in this field. We therefore feel that we should conclude this intervention and give this information by saying that, in our view, the FICO project will be clearly enslaved by public interests in favour of private interests. Public partners, in fact, in addition to the building heritage, will be guaranteed the entire project: Municipality and Region are the same ones that will have to approve and authorize the plan and, therefore, the fulcrum of the deal. Therefore, the public service is once again enslaved to the private interest and we honestly, in all this operation, think that the good of ordinary citizens and public heritage does not fit in with a blissful dry! [[Applause from Senator Cioffi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u70	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-432.ana.u71	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 21 April, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 14.58 p.m.
