ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 15 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u4	Barani (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation begins (16.36 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u10	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I asked to speak in order to request the convening of the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups or to obtain an urgent hearing of Mr Alfano. In recent days, Mr President, in Rome and, before that, in Treviso there has been protest by many citizens, in some cases resulting in police posts. We understand very well that this Government has become the tour operator of the illegals who arrive in Italy. As a result, the North League is asking the Presidents of the Groups and you, Mr President, to help Minister Alfano, both on what has happened in these two cities and, above all, to understand what the policies of the Government are regarding reception. We cannot welcome them all, but above all we cannot make sure that the prefects become the travel agencies of the Government, with the task of placing non-EU citizens in the various hotels around Italy and, in a little while, as we have seen, also in private homes. I would therefore ask you to help Mr Alfano as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u11	In response to your request, Senator Centinario, I call the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups for tomorrow at 1 p.m., at the end of the afternoon sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u12	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1880, 746, 760, 1570, 1795, 1815, 1823, 1841 and 1855.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u15	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I rise to call for the submission of amendments. The proposals for amendments were tabled yesterday, by 1 p.m. at 1 p.m. and there are about 1 500 of them, so I think it might be time to get the dossiers.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u16	We'll ask the offices where I am with this job, Senator Airola. Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so. MORRA (M5S). I give up speaking, Mr President, President. He's enlisted to speak Senator Marin. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again. He's enlisted to speak Senator Fornaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u17	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, I believe that the rapporteur and Deputy Minister Giacomelli should be given an open and collaborative approach to the Commission's work, and from this point of view I must say that I am very surprised at the news of the enormous number of amendments that have been tabled for the consideration of this House. For the time I spent in the Commission, it seems to me that the spirit was different. On the merits of the measure, the orientation with which the Government has decided to present this bill had been defined - following the fashion, which I do not entirely share, of the tweet - with the expression "outside the parties from RAI" or better, to say it in a more correct way, with the aim of finding a greater distinction, or a clearer distinction, between the power of direction and control (more rightly in a company that has the responsibility to manage an important and valuable asset such as the public service, and therefore also the pluralism of information) and management of a company engaged in a competitive market: a former monopolist company that has gradually found itself to live in a market that is not only at the national but now international level, not only on a platform but on a plurality of platforms. I believe that the draft law that came out of the Commission's work, with great honesty towards the Government and with respect for the work of the rapporteurs, only partially meets the objective. In fact, we are faced with a maintenance - whether ordinary or extraordinary - of the so-called Gasparri law and certainly we are not even - but it was not intended - with an overall reform of the RAI, but, as it is more correct to say, with a reform of the governance of the RAI. As I have already said in the Commission, I am the first signatory to a draft law which was then transformed into an amendment, which on the subject of governance really wanted to achieve the objective, I believe, shared and shared, of a clearer distinction between the power of direction and control and management of the company. Well, the most innovative solution, more reformative and certainly consistent with that separation was given by the dual model: a model founded, on the one hand, on the supervisory board, with the president appointed by the Presidents of the Chamber and Senate, three members by the Chamber, two by the Senate, three by the Government and two by the employees, to whom to clearly entrust all the matter of the address and control; on the other, on a management board to which, as the word itself says, the management of the company, with a president who had all the characteristics of independence, a managing director with wide powers and three chief executives of the Company. A model, to be clear, similar to that typical of the German dual system of the countries of the North. That, in our opinion - a judgment not only of mine but also of other colleagues who have tabled that amendment - met the objectives, would have been a real turning point in governance and would have given the real signal of a change. On the other hand, a more modest, less courageously reformist solution has been sought; a solution which, as regards, for example, the President, who was first appointed by the Board of Directors, with an effectiveness subordinate to the vote of the RAI Supervisory Committee, evidently brings us back to the Gasparri law. Also with respect to the topic of the managing director has started in a way, with a strong indication of concentrated powers, and then finish, vice versa, on a very delicate topic, such as the appointment of the network director, in fact subordinate to the board of directors. At this stage, thinking and hoping that there may still be room for work in the Assembly and for a confrontation with the Government, it seems appropriate to emphasize the theme of the source of appointment of the managing director. In Europe there are basically two models with regard to the sources of appointment of the managing director: a model of foundation, to which the ownership of the company is delegated and therefore an autonomy to all round - it is the BBC model, to understand us - or, as happens in almost all the European nations and in the States of the Union, the model in which it is the board, that is the board of directors to have the power of appointment of the managing director. As the Director-General of the European Broadcasting Union (EBO) has rightly pointed out, the association of all public broadcasting companies, during its hearing, a direct appointment, as in fact is the one provided for in the text that is submitted to us, is present only in another country, Bulgaria. From this point of view, the solution that has been found, namely an appointment of the board of directors on a proposal of the shareholders' meeting, and therefore of the government, appears as a Byzantine solution and better would be a nomination by the board, just as in the best European practices. On this I have tabled an amendment which I hope will be accepted by the Government. One positive point that needs to be stressed is that of the constraints and limits that have been placed on the subject of competences, incompatibility and inconferibility of the task of managing director and managing director, because I believe they go in the right direction. It can also be strengthened and on this I must say that the contribution of the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement has been important, just as I believe that it is right to emphasize in positive the transparent procedure for the appointments that will then be held at the Chamber and Senate classrooms, a model - if I am allowed - that it would be right to export also for other appointments, avoiding to find ourselves, as often happens, with a name sent by SMS to vote without the possibility of evaluating curriculum or professionalism. So raising the level and reducing the possibility of conflicts of interest is an absolutely shared and shared path. Positive also appears employee involvement, which is an important experiment. Of course - although I think it is obvious - it would have been preferable to include employees in the company's top bodies in a dual system: it is usually within the supervisory board that employees or their representatives play their role. I do not think anyone escapes the delicacy of this point, especially having introduced the possibilities of blocking the powers of the managing director on the nominations of the directors of network with qualified majorities, evidently a qualified majority that gives the representative of the employees a power of ban that I believe lends itself - hopefully not happen - also to an instrumental use, and I believe that this must be emphasized. It might therefore have been appropriate - and I say this in a subtle way, not having tabled an amendment on this subject - to provide for the possibility that it should not only be an employee but also, if necessary, an external person representing the employees. This would have strengthened this role and would have silenced possible ex post criticism of possible conflicts of interest. Also in this regard, I personally do not scandalize myself, coming from a professional experience in large companies, the fact that the managing director has ample powers, because this is part of a model of great enterprise as is the RAI, that - I remember - is the main Italian cultural industry, but also in this case I believe that it would have been more correct to insert the powers of the managing director in a dual system, thus realizing that counterbalance of powers typical of the dual systems. Finally, there is a more general issue, that of delegations, on which the Commission has worked, but also in the text that came out of the Commission, I believe there are interpretative spaces on which I hope there will be specific clarification in the debate. This is an issue that we have raised on more than one occasion. Often, as a Parliament, we are faced with delegations which have an over-generic character in the objectives and instruments. I repeat, work has been done in the Commission on this, but I believe that Article 5, for example, on the question of reordering, should be better specified, otherwise an extensive interpretation would mean that a delegation has been given to the overall government to reorder, since the real reform of the RAI lies in Article 5. I do not give this interpretation, but I believe that better interpretation can only give it to the Government: an authentic interpretation of what Article 5 means in particular. I hope that there will be room for further improvements in this House, in a constructive spirit, and I also hope that there will be a significant reduction in the number of amendments which would otherwise end up being obstructive, contrary to the work of the Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please conclude your speech, Senator Fornaro. Mr Fornaro (PD). I shall conclude, Mr President: I need less than a minute. RAI and public service are an important and delicate asset for culture and for the formation of public opinion, therefore for Italian democracy. RAI is part of the material Constitution and I therefore believe that it is right to seek the maximum possible consensus, as is the case with the reforms and to have the utmost attention to this Company that has had an important part in the history of our country and that I believe can continue to clothe it. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagnoncelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u19	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years the public broadcasting service has profoundly changed its original nature as an instrument to inform citizens and as a means, effective and effective, of widespread literacy and cultural growth for the improvement of the socio-economic conditions of the country. Programs that have made the history of the public service radio and television, in a perspective of cultural growth of a peasant Italy and a newborn democracy just started on the path of post-war reconstruction, have long disappeared from the palimpsests of state television. These original connotations of the public service radio and television have gradually undergone a necessary adaptation both in virtue of technological progress, which has made available information and cultural content, through a multiplicity of technological devices and platforms, and the profound and changed socio-economic and cultural conditions of citizens, who have been called to confront more and more with an intercultural and globalized dimension of society. The 1970s and 1980s - I remind the friends of the left - saw many ideal battles on freedom of information and the progressive liberalization of the ether, which took place in Italy with many difficulties, allowed, together with the multiplication of the information and cultural broadcasting offer, the birth of new publishing groups in direct competition with each other and in direct competition with the then monopolist RAI, transforming the concept of public service in fact. The development of the Internet network, starting from the 1990s, and the consequent spread of personal computers, followed by many other devices of telematic connection, the ease of access and interconnection of information systems, have expanded beyond the possibilities of the individual to pack his daily schedule both for information, as well as and above all for recreational-recreational and cultural character. A new world has opened up; in the last decade the path has opened up to the emergence of a new social awareness of the right to information and therefore the progressive erosion of that original perimeter of the functions of the public broadcasting service, in favour of an increasing freedom of choice by the citizen who, moreover, being able to freely enjoy a considerable mass of content and programs also originated from abroad, ultimately becomes the dominus of his own enrichment and of his own cultural growth. On several occasions, it is argued that the multiplication of television offerings, with the completion of the digitalisation process in Europe, makes available to all a variety of sources of information and content such as to render unnecessary the maintenance of the public service, which would remain historically linked to political conditions dominated by authoritarian societies and increasingly belonging to the past. The requirements of pluralism, freedom of access and representation of the socio-cultural diversity present in our society, which are the pillars of the defence of the public service, are now basically assured by the great opportunities offered by global digitalisation and the web. We Italian Conservatives, Reformists not so much want to emphasize the form of governance of RAI, which is also a sensitive point of the measure under consideration, but to unequivocally place the issue of subscription fee to RAI, which represents, in the form of a tax of possession, as defined today by law, a limitation to the right to information and a violation of freedom of choice. If we really were to apply the rule on the RAI fee, we would find ourselves at the absurdity that smartphones, personal computers, iPads, tablets, etc., which are today tools not only for leisure but above all for study and work, should pay the subscription fee to RAI because devices suitable for the reception of radio programmes, not to mention that in order to actually receive such programs - and therefore to benefit from the public radio and television service - these tools must pay another subscription: that to the provider of Internet connection services. In short, if we want to kick the IT market out of Italy and return to the pigeon traveler, then we are on the right track. If the fee is to finance a public service that the State provides to citizens through its concessionary company, this must be, in our opinion, Italian Conservatives, Reformists, totally charged to general and direct taxation, without discriminatory obstacles, to all citizens. If, on the other hand, the fee must be intended as a consideration for the purchase of a radio and television service, it is clear that the citizen must be able to choose whether to purchase that service from the State concessionaire (in this case the RAI) or from other subject according to his own economic possibilities, inclinations and needs as much informational as cultural. But there is more, in support of the thesis that the canon must be eliminated as configured today: the State must be able to define the product to be provided as a public service radio and television totally free for citizens, commissioning it with public evidence and being able to separate, if necessary, production from the diffusion in a perspective of attention to the quality of the service freely rendered to citizens. A careful reading also shows that the Amsterdam Protocol and the European directives on communication and the media do not exclusively bind the public service to a public undertaking or even to a single undertaking. It therefore opens a scenario in which public service activities can be put to tender, can be assigned to one or more operators and have as their object both individual sectors or parts of them, and the public service as a whole. In this European context, the public service provided by the State could also be carried out by private companies within a framework of purposes, rules and financing established by the public administration and should be intended exclusively for the performance of the functions of real public service, distinguishing from the administrative and management of public functions from commercial ones. Similarly, the public service must not interfere with the conditions of competition of the market, so companies that obtain public resources must not use them to gain competitive advantages vis-à-vis competing companies in the television market. With this in mind, without wishing to enter into the debate on the need or not for a channel for public service only and without advertising (which does not exist in Italy today as it does elsewhere), the free subscription fee to RAI (and not possession) must be seen because of the form of company undertaken by RAI, which operates with its multiple networks on the market, in a competition regime respect its competitors, both in terms of cultural and entertainment offerings, as well as in terms of revenue from advertising, sponsorships and other. Therefore, if RAI is a public limited company (even if the capital is public) and operates on the market in competition with competitors, the receipt of the fee in the form of a compulsory tax would constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Therefore, if the RAI provides a public service, this must be free of charge for citizens and then general taxation must bear the cost of such service (as is the case in Spain). If the RAI provides a public service and receives State support, it is clear that at the time when it takes away advertising revenue by means of other programmes, which do not fall within the scheme of those defined as public service, it deviates from its main public service function and is in fact placed on the market and as such must be supported by itself, i.e. without aid from the State which requires the possession tax for television to citizens. For this reason, we can no longer accept an RAI which, on the one hand, plays a public service role (always more marginal) for which citizens are called to pay a tax and, on the other hand, the RAI itself, on the same networks, carries out an entrepreneurial activity (always wider) in a free market regime with a clear impact on the public service. In general, there are three types of television funding that correspond to three types of customers: the State, businesses and households. Few countries maintain themselves with funding that does not foresee the advertising resource or only to a small extent: among the most important, Great Britain, Sweden and Spain. 17.02 p.m. (Following PAGNONCELLI). The rest of the European countries, including Italy, use a mixed system, between public funding, advertising revenue and the sale of rights. The fee or other tax charged to citizens is present in most cases, while only in some countries - such as Spain, the Netherlands and the Baltic Republics - there are no charges for viewers. Without a doubt, Italy is a case in itself because the commercial resources of RAI, although in recent years they have suffered a fall of 20% due to the crisis, are much more important than in those other European countries that allow state television to access advertising resources, and where these resources weigh between 15 and 25% of revenues. Therefore, the public service provided by RAI remains strongly conditioned by the commercial variable that affects programming. Just to limit the impact of the commercial variable on the quality of the public service, I quote the two most important cases of removing advertising as a source of funding: France and Spain. Since 2009, advertising has been suppressed in the French public television programming from 8 to 6 in the morning, while from 2016 it is expected to disappear entirely from the schedules, while in Spain advertising has been eliminated since 2010. Therefore, it is necessary to define a financial model for the public broadcasting service so that this is clearly recognizable, free from the advertising factor and fully supported by general taxation. Everything else that today produces and disseminates RAI and that does not fall within the parameters of the public service defined by the State must follow the logics of the market, as do the other publishing groups present in Italy and not only through the offer to the citizen of a wide range of packages of contents in subscription. With regard to Article 4 of the draft law under consideration, which provides for a delegation to the Government for the discipline of public funding to RAI, we consider this delegation formulated in a very generic way and, in our opinion, the inspiration for a model of a public service carried out or entrusted by the State on the basis of precise qualitative areas, but supported by general taxation. I would stress again that a financial model for the public radio and television service must be defined also in view of the next appointment of 2016, when the twenty-year convention between the Italian State and the RAI dealership expires in order not to fall into a narrow perspective of the type "RAI yes" or "RAI no". We come to the node governance that, in this bill, as well highlighted by the other oppositions, is one of the critical points. The procedures for the appointment of directors and the tasks assigned to them in fact compress the functions of the Parliamentary Commission for the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services. With the model hypothesized by this Government, unacceptable for every civil country, respectful of parliamentary dialectics and democracy, it is quite evident that the parliamentary majority and the Executive want to take possession of absolute rule over the governance and management of the RAI, to transform it into the megaphone of the Government: a sort of Minculpop (the famous Ministry of People's Culture born in 1937) in a modern key, where - we are almost certain - the official language will become the Florentine, as is happening in all the strategic public structures that this Government has not yet demolished. In particular, the taking of the RAI would take place not only with the mechanism of appointment of the appointed directors (two elected by the Chamber of Deputies, two by the Senate and so on), but also and above all through the figure of the managing director, who becomes the longa manus of the Head of Government in the management of the Company. In this regard, it should also be pointed out in this Chamber that the criteria for the appointment and selection of RAI's managing director present, as they are written in the bill, rather questionable profiles, which risk leading to the company's leadership characters perhaps of proven notoriety (politics or proximity to the Premier), but of little or no entrepreneurial capacity, to serious prejudice for the maintenance of the entire system. It is curious to think that the so-called men of the State, the heads of cabinet of the Ministries, are excluded from incompatibility, and so on. I wonder why! In this respect, we have tabled some amendments to guarantee the RAI company itself and the taxpayers vexed by the fee, so that at least the positive management performance required as a prerequisite is already verifiable at the time of the nomination's proposal for the activities carried out in the previous five years. I conclude by saying that this bill seems to continue to provide for a subscription fee to RAI in the current form, i.e. as a possession fee. We Italian Conservators, Reformists ask with a loud voice, without hesitation, that the canon, as we know it today, be once and for all eliminated, thus giving freedom of choice to the citizens, for too long denied. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u20	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, undersecretary Giacomelli, according to Renzi's announcements this was to be an epochal reform, aimed at a radical change of RAI and radio and television service, while it was reduced to a short-sighted reform, without any strategic vision. The text arrived at the Commission with a reform of the centralist government and it was decided to produce a revision of the so-called Gasparri law, the result of a renewed pact of the Nazarene, with a decisive role of Gasparri himself, which will still keep its name tied to the reform law. Let's face it, the government's objectives have failed. A golden opportunity has been missed, or - it is more likely - the logic of "The Cat" has been implemented: to change everything not to change anything. It will still remain the batching in RAI. Not to untie the Company from politics, yet another promise not kept by Prime Minister Renzi. His words - "The RAI will forget the old vices of the lottery" - will remain empty chatter. Governance is changed, but only on the front. The Director-General shall be replaced without the right to vote with a CEO with powers downsized in expenses and appointments compared to the initial forecasts. On the board of directors, the members are reduced from nine to seven and will identify the president among themselves. Of these seven advisors, two will be appointed by the Ministry of Economy and Finance (including the CEO, without publishing his curriculum vitae), two by the Chamber of Deputies and two by the Senate, while only the last - the seventh - will be external and appointed by the employees of the Company. Obviously, this last component will not matter, it will affect little, because everything will be decided by the Executive, the parties, or the majority party, that will influence the Company through the six sevenths of the Board of Directors. Italicum electoral reform and constitutional reform, with the indirect election of senators, bring rights to this dangerous scenario. Then, after the renewed agreement between the Government and Gasparri, the maintenance of the RAI Supervisory Commission, which, in our opinion, has made its time. He will probably be satisfied with the 5 Star Movement, which will keep Cool to the Chairmanship of the Supervisory Commission. Then there is the mistake of not wanting to address immediately the problem of financing RAI, but of entrusting it to a government delegation law. Let's say immediately that the huge problem of RAI's budget is not faced by countering the evasion of the RAI canon, but by making transparency on recruitment, by cutting the millionaires' cache of presenters and artists and intervening on the high remuneration of the executives, to put an end to the incomprehensible practice of financing with public money an issuer that, in fact, has long been flattened and operates in competition with the other generalist television, for choices of programming, audience and sale of content. Instead, you have to cut the doubles, like the multiple outputs of television crews to document a fact of news or the umpteenth appearance of Premier Renzi. For the League the RAI canon must be absolutely abolished, also because the Italian citizen evaluates the poor quality of the public television service and considers the canon an unfair and vexatory tax. In order to avoid what, for the Executive, is a huge escape of the canon - we repeat that for us of the League, instead, it is the sacrosanct right of a citizen not to pay an unjust tax - do not try the Government to charge the canon with other methods or amenities, such as - for example - its inclusion in the electricity bill. And no longer try the company to invent you are similar to the rain distribution of newsletters to companies and professionals, doing psychological terrorism for the collection of the special RAI fee. It is enough with these ways of hitting the production system, with yet another gabelle, unjustified as well as depressive, which in fact represent new taxes on innovation, technological development and work. However, apart from the issue of delegation, we come back here once again to raise the absurdity that weighs on the persons exempted from payment of the fee, such as schools, welfare agencies or day care centres for the elderly, who must continue to submit every year the request for exemption from payment. Could we not give a signal of civilization and change this stupid practice, simply by deleting those who are exempt from the list of potential holders of television sets? The League on Reform has made proposals that try to interpret the common feeling of Italians. Parliament has been offered several draft laws, and also in the Commission public works with substantive amendments: everything, or almost, rejected as - for example - the valorization of the local RAI publications. Colleagues, among Italians there is not only interest in the facts, in the news and in national politics. There is an increasing interest of citizens in their territory and in what happens to them. Everything has been rejected, in line and consistent with actions aimed at stifling local autonomy in favour of a centralist becero. We will therefore, unfortunately, continue to watch within national network transmissions to centered spaces of a few seconds for the local newspapers. It's a shameful thing. Fortunately - we say - there are local private televisions, thanks to the enlightened entrepreneurs who have understood, instead, the importance of the territories and fill several gaps left by public television. Another problem is that of digital terrestrial. The reform does not address or solve a serious problem that has been introduced with the transition from analogue to this technology that was to innovate. Digital terrestrial is not working, especially in many mountain areas. How many costs had to bear, at the beginning, many Italian families to equip themselves with decoder and then discover the absence of signal? How long will Italian families still have to resort frequently to the autotuning of their television sets to capture the quality of signals that are lost at the first thunderstorm? However, the provision of the service is a service that RAI must absolutely guarantee on the basis of the national concession contract. And despite these disservices, we record the shameful paradox whereby the citizens of the mountain municipalities, who do not receive the RAI signal, are not only denied the public radio and television service, but are also asked to pay regularly the fee of 113,5 euros to a company that has decided not to cover the territory in which they live. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Through his representative in the Commission, Mr Crosio, who is sitting here next to me, Mr Carroccio calls for the fact that he has taken on a role of responsibility in examining the reform and has limited himself to submitting only 50 substantive amendments to the Commission. We wanted to repeat the collaborative and responsible approach taken with the delegation law for procurement reform, which allowed a positive measure to be fired. Our proposals were for a pluralist RAI, for a modern RAI, for a party-free RAI. We have proposed a board of directors always with seven members, but with only three representatives of Parliament, giving space, as well as a representative of RAI employees, to a representative of local authorities, to one of the consumers and, finally, to a representative of AGCOM. We wanted to bring more parts of civil society into management. Unfortunately, however, all this has been rejected, and this is because public television must remain a powerful tool for manipulation of consciences and, therefore, of electoral consensus. [[Applause from Senator Crosio]] I shall start with the conclusions. The RAI needed to be rethought, renewed and aged by irritating logics that no longer work, which lead citizens to consider the canon one of the most hated leaps. We reiterate this: the reform of the RAI and the public broadcasting system was as much necessary in this phase of profound television transformation, with the proliferation of channels and offers, with the advent of other subjects within the television scene and with the use of the Internet. It was necessary to rethink the role that public television should play, the specific modalities of operation and its mission as an instrument of democratic participation, a means of promoting the territories, culture, the arts and the different visions of society. The current technological transformation had to be accompanied also by a normative transformation, capable of making the Italian public radio and television service more efficient and in step with the times, acting incisively on the organizational and management structure of the RAI dealership, starting from a privatization of the Company, of which for too many years it is spoken empty, still maintaining at the head of the State the role of majority shareholder. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This could and should have been an opportunity to free itself from the old concept of RAI public service. This text does not have anything new, it is bad and it is worse. That is why the League has tabled 800 amendments in this House and will fight with them. The RAI reform is another unfulfilled promise, such as to pay off public administration debts by September 2014. Today businesses are still waiting for 70 billion of their rights. In the same way, the promise of the Copernican revolution will not be kept with a cut of 50 billion euros of taxes: another colossal bale, unless you want to further strangle and, therefore, kill the local autonomy with other cuts to local transfers, or still resort to the increase of public debt for as many billions. As an increase in public debt, the 100 billion has already been enough for fifteen months, that is, since Prime Minister Renzi is the head of this wicked government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u22	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u23	Mr President, we are talking about RAI, which is an important issue for what we have already said when discussing the questions referred for a preliminary ruling and for what we are continuing to say in general debate. I would like to begin my speech, Mr President, by expressing, on behalf of the whole Group, the great pleasure and honour of being pro tempore characters, because being such in this House is a guarantee of renewal and also of quality of thought. As a member of this House - indeed you yourself, Mr Gasparri - said that the Gasparri remain and the de minimis pass through, then perhaps one of the problems is that there are people who, like you, have seven legislatures in this House. And I say this not to make a controversy, but for the sake of truth. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What we want to say, however, is that we have heard so much in the course of the debate in the Commission. Senator Crosio has already mentioned the hearing of the European Broadcasting Union (ERU), during which we have been told that the appointment of the CEO by the Government is a practice - if we can say so - in use only in Bulgaria. I have nothing against Bulgaria - there would be nothing else - but perhaps we should understand that this mode of appointment of the CEO is out of the standard canons of what is happening in Europe. So, every now and then, we should ask ourselves whether or not what we do is correct. This is a point which, in our view, is a vulnus of the measure under consideration. Of course, it has been said that the amendment adopted in the Commission sets out a pre-selection criterion for the appointment of the Management Board. We want to hope that this is not a fig leaf that the majority and the government want to use to get their hands on the RAI, which in the end is what President Renzi would need to feel the leader who holds the Light Institute. But we will ensure that this does not happen, because the Government cannot and must not (more than anyone else) put its hands on the RAI. The problem, however, is the parties within the RAI; the problem - we have talked about it so many times - is to do what is said. Since the President-in-Office told us that he wanted to get the parties out of the RAI, we continue to ask ourselves how this can be done, whether the nominations are made by the parties. Not to mention what the parties have done all these years, when - I do not want to remember something that was said so many years ago - they took a socialist, a Christian Democrat, a communist and perhaps a good one. So maybe these parties have changed, but the practice hasn't changed, and so in RAI we have so many people who are the daughters of that lottery. So, we should start wondering how we can really free RAI from the parties. And of course we have to start with the head, because in my area it's said that the fish stinks from the head. So let's start cleaning up the head and then see if we can get the whole RAI cleaned up in the waterfall. We have put forward a number of proposals, with more than 600 amendments, with the desire to put the Senate in front of the choice of whether it is able to do these things, some of which really seem to us to be of common sense, and which I hope the majority will take seriously. I refer, for example, to the proposal that the members of the board of directors and the managing director should not previously have held roles in political parties. That seems to me to be a common sense rule. On the other hand, we remember what happened with a Senator of the PdL of the Municipality of Battipaglia (near my city), who for seven years was a member of the Authority for Communications Guarantees (AGCOM). Well, since AGCOM must be a third party, can it confiscate in itself people who have played roles in political parties? Does that make sense? Or maybe it's a way to put seven years on a fixed salary a person who might not have been elected, as happened with Senator Napoli? That's our first and last name. The proposal we have put forward is simple and I think it is of common sense, and I have already said that it has been made under the Procurement Code. If we can choose with a preselective criterion the director of the works of a work in concession (we speak of public works that can be worth even 10 billion euros and, therefore, really important), which consists in the presentation of a register of people with a high level qualification and in the draw of the name of the person who will then become the director of the work - the director of the work is the one who checks if things are done according to the project and has a civil, criminal and patrimonial responsibility, because we are talking about works of great importance - why can't we use the same criterion to appoint a member of the board of directors of RAI? The same criterion would be a ban made by AGCOM, obviously cleaned up on the basis of what has been said before - of course we will do so over time - by those who have held roles in the parties before and for a number of years. Moreover, we have always said that the authorities are third and that if they are third, they must be third in relation to something, in my opinion they must be third in relation to the parties. How else can they be third? Are they only in relation to those who have to control? But then when will politics take away the hands that it holds today, like an octopus, on all the ganglia of the State? Let's start cleaning up the AGCOM. Once this is done, AGCOM presents the ban, selects 20 or 30 people of high moral mirroring, ability and qualification, and makes a draw that is submitted to the parliamentary committees, who can also refuse a name, if they consider that in the draw something was wrong. In this way, the members of the Management Board can be chosen by a majority of two thirds. This seems to us the only way because, in reality, no others have been proposed: obviously no one knows another system to get the parties out of the RAI. Perhaps, then, the powers of the CEO and the board of directors need to be rebalanced. In fact, if the CEO is of governmental appointment, his greater powers will be increasingly concentrated in the hands of the Government. You know, President - I am speaking for myself, but I think I am also speaking on behalf of the Group - we are a little in love with something a gentleman said, which seems to me to be called Montesquieu, who said that the functions of government and legislative functions must be rigidly separated. Perhaps we should make sure that the government returns to the will of Parliament, and not to chatter but seriously. And perhaps we should take the honor and burden of writing the laws. Maybe this should be done. Perhaps the government should really return to its role as a government: to govern the processes and not identify them. Therefore, we want to bring back a little more power within the board of directors and not in the hands of the managing director: for example, the strategic address of the company should be put back in the hands of the board of directors and not the managing director. We have also proposed a board of five members and, therefore, streamlined and operational. After all, we like real things, because they are the only way to modify a dinosaur. RAI is like a Ministry. It is a great dinosaur that, to take a step, takes a long time. Maybe it's slow, because it's a big mastodon. We must make it effective and fast, since the technological changes we are witnessing are very important. On the other hand, the landing of Netflix in Italy is next and, at this point, we will travel on other systems, such as fiber. Here comes the theme of fiber, and RAI should participate in this tool, also with RAI Way, which represents a backbone for what concerns phones. Therefore, technology convergence is important, and RAI needs to be ready and awake. In addition, the basic text of the draft law raised the threshold below which the Board of Directors' opinion on contracts is not required: from EUR 2,500,000 has now been raised to EUR 10 million. But, with what happens in Italy, do we also want to raise the threshold? Sounds like something out of the world to me. Perhaps the threshold should be brought back to the previous value, i.e. to EUR 2,585,000. Perhaps we should be careful about this too, Mr President. I would like to make one final comment on transparency, which we shall be discussing again when considering the amendments. The Authority for Electricity and Gas, on 14 May, issued an act, in which it is said that all contracts and acts conferring management or external collaboration duties must be published, otherwise they are not valid and the person who provided the advice cannot be paid. We are simply asking you to do in RAI what the Electricity and Gas Authority does, but we will talk about it during the examination of the amendments. For now we expect the Government and the rapporteur to have the strength and the will to listen to our proposals and to understand just how common sense it is. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u25	Mr President, twenty years ago, some RAI journalists launched the "Subscriber" campaign. The fear expressed by some of them, several of whom then entered politics - I would say directly, in the sense that they all were candidates on the left - was due to alleged invasions of the field by the Government which, for a few months of the previous year, had been chaired by Silvio Berlusconi. What point was raised by those journalists, supported by well-known unions within the RAI? The fear was that the Commission would exercise excessive power over the public service, undermining its pluralism and moving towards a situation that even endangered democracy. Now, we must not underestimate this kind of reasoning, because in them there are overshadowed things that have been discussed for a long time, long before television existed. No less than Thomas Jefferson, who lived long before television and even radio, said that, for democracy to function properly, two things were needed: democratic institutions that worked and reliable and plural media. He wrote this in the 18th century, almost two hundred and fifty years ago, and I think he was certainly one who knew about democracy. Jumping to date, I have experienced several times the very interesting experience of international observer for elections in some countries. These missions are more frequent in the countries of recent democracy, but they have also been done in countries of much longer democracy and, at least in theory, solid. Observers consider two things. Short-term observers arrive on the spot precisely for voting operations and go to check the seats. They are a bit like party observers in our polling stations: they can see the voting conditions and they have to compile reports, which are then managed by the international organizations responsible for this, in order to incorporate the data. The questions obviously concern the regularity of the vote, if its secrecy is guaranteed, if there is tension in the seats, if there are armed people inside them or if electoral propaganda is made within the seats or in the immediate vicinity. This is very important because, if the vote is carried out under conditions of coercion, we cannot talk about regular elections. However, there are also long-term observers, some of whom arrive three months before the elections - there are, of course, few because there is also a question of funds and staff - and others the month before, to observe the whole functioning of the media. This is in fact part of the election because, if from the technical point of view the election day can be freely voted for the governing party or for an opposition party, but in the month or months before the media were, in a single way or almost, in favour of the government, democracy is only from the formal point of view, but from the substantive point of view it is a whole other thing. Therefore, the reports to judge the regularity of the elections are not limited to the technical fact, but extend to an analysis of the use of the media. Of course, these analyses - I am referring to other countries - are carried out on all media, both public and private. We know that in some countries there are no public-owned media, while in others there are all or almost all of them. Well, in Italy RAI performs a very important service, has been a monopolist for a very long time and I think it is a great thing to have overcome this monopoly, thanks to many small private television networks, hindered in a thousand ways by bureaucracy and laws, and also to the televisions of Silvio Berlusconi, which in this way has contributed to pluralism. What would we say about a country where newspapers, newspapers or weekly newspapers can only be owned by the state? Yet, from the television point of view, this was Italy until a few years ago, that is up to 40 years ago or even less. Then there were the famous episodes of obscuration of the repeaters, about which the attention of some rather approximate historical re-enactments is addressed to the decree that put up such obscuration and not to the fact that the very important media, which guaranteed pluralism, had been closed for the decision of a single magistrate and a single prosecutor. Well, the fact that the Commission should not and cannot have a dominant influence or an excess of power on the public service - let alone on any other media - is very important. On this aspect are easy slogans, such as: "Enough with the lottery! We call people super partes, like professors and Presidents of the Constitutional Court. But, thank God, even university professors and even constitutional judges have their own political ideas and think that the guarantors are wise, while others have little to trust, reflects an undemocratic mentality. Democracy is precisely the confrontation of ideas and applies not only to those who participate in electoral competitions - parties and candidates - but also to the media. Otherwise, we are satisfied with a single newspaper, such as the People's Newspaper - in a great nation still exists - which is good for everyone, but especially for those who control it. I therefore believe that the work done in the Commission is very important and it is normal for it to have been able to work. I think it is extremely serious when this is prevented, as has happened several times in this parliamentary term, by presenting measures to the House on which the Commission has not been able to work. Then we can work even less in this House, because they are usually trusted. This work has been important, because we have moved from an approach - in comparison to which also the caricatures of the so-called jobs of the places, denounced by the various campaigns such as "Subscriber" raises the voice, pale - to something that, apparently, is a little less unacceptable. All this has been done with the slogan "Get away from the parties from RAI" - that is, away from the other parties. [[Senator Nugnes' laughter]] We know that this is an old trick, or rather an old subterfuge, so the others are the parties, the ugly and the bad ones, and instead the party to which you belong is not called a party, maybe it is called a movement, or simply its own party, maybe the party of the President of the Council. As a result, others are ugly and bad and that instead represents the sum of every human wisdom. If that were the case, it would be good for this great wisdom not to remain concentrated in one political subject, but to be entrusted to pluralism, competition and competition three ideas, which the citizens express, in a valid way from the point of view of constitutional guarantees, in the elections, when Parliament is formed, which has pluralism within it and sees different views represented. On the contrary, the Government, by its nature, is a coalition or even can be supported by a single party, which is why it does not guarantee pluralism. That is the very simple reason why the parties are better than the party. And of course it would be important to reserve a great space for the good ones. It was first mentioned by a colleague of the 5 Star Movement that once - in the so-called first Republic - a Christian Democrat, a Communist, a Socialist and a good one was taken in the recruitments. It was Sandro Curzi who said, if I am not mistaken, that is, a person clearly engaged in politics in a party called Communist. Undoubtedly there should also be selections for merit (and only for that). But to think that a subject, just because it is not chosen through parliamentary or para-parliamentary mechanisms, is super partes is really a cunning - it is thought to have a prevalence in those categories so-called super partes - or a resounding naivety. There must be counterweights and guarantee organs. And guarantee body cannot be a CEO appointed by the Government, as - I hope I can say - expected in the original text. There must be - yes - an administrator, but it cannot be the monopolist: it cannot have television, radio and public service completely in its hands, because otherwise pluralism fails. The data published by the Authority for the Warranties in Communications tell how long video and speech have the representatives of the various parties. Well, there is always some consideration for the Democratic Party: just in June just past the Democratic Party was, as such, over 40% (it is much more than its electoral weight, expressed both in the last valid elections, those for Parliament, where it had 24%, and in the last consultations that took place). But above all there is the space dedicated to institutional figures: the person of the President of the Council alone reaches even 50%, to which 20% of the government he presided over is added. Following are the President of the Republic, the President of the Senate, the President of the House: all expression of the left parties. The majority therefore have an extremely important space. This, be careful, is what happens in today's situation, so there is really no need to strengthen the power, perhaps even just hidden - so to speak - deriving from a certain prestige, from the charm that can exercise on journalists even adamantini the fact that there is someone who has power and often exercises it even with a few scruples. If there is a need to strengthen something in the management of RAI, which is a large company with more than 11,000 employees, which costs Italians and therefore has to make the best of it, this can be done from an entrepreneurial point of view, to launch initiatives and to determine improvements in the efficiency of production, but there can be no extension of the appointing powers and that is the location of the people who have this or that political sympathy, which then obviously is always the closest to the Government, because otherwise you do not understand why the Government should hold so much to having a CEO. I therefore express my gratitude to those who have worked in the Commission, particularly my colleagues in the Force Italia component, and I hope that a more acceptable definition will be reached in this House, because it would not really be acceptable that in a current situation, in which there is already a preponderance (it was said before the President of the Council had a six-hour presence per week in the main televisions), this presence would even be strengthened. I would say that it would be good for him too, because in the long run too much can be tired and everyone must be judged equally and that is, the opinions of others must also appear and there must be no excess exposure, because otherwise there is the risk that we will get to the conditioned reflection, which is precisely the opposite of the responsible choice. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u27	Mr President, it is a joke of fate that you are the one who is presiding over this sitting when we are talking about the reform of the RAI. I would like to start from a consideration which concerns precisely the reform of the RAI that bears its name, because if we are not fooled by the number of articles and the work done in the Commission, as many as 46 of the 47 articles have not been touched, so basically this is not a reform of the RAI, even if it is sold as such, unless that individual article has a specific weight that overturns the value of all the others. To make a comparison, if Article 1 of the Constitution were to be changed to "Italy is an autocratic monarchy," it would be enough to modify that only article to change all the other 138. I would like to go into the substance of this change that the Government is presenting. We would have liked to see a change that would at least respect those indications that the President-in-Office of the Council, with great emphasis, tweeted several times: We will return the RAI to its citizens. The RAI cannot be governed by a law bearing the name of Gasparri (almost a damnatio memoriae); Government and parties shall not interfere. These are not slogans written on the walls of any city, but they are thoughts of the President of the Council of Ministers, publicly rendered, so they should be the guidelines according to which the Government and Parliament have carried out this constitutional reform. We do not understand what the President of the Council of Ministers means with the slogan "We will return the RAI to the citizens" unless he has the same concept as the State that the Sun King had - "The State is me" - so perhaps he intends that the RAI should be returned to him, or that he will take it back and then act in the name of the citizens. This frankly appears very little, indeed not at all, as the return of a public service to the citizens. As for the other slogan 'The RAI cannot be governed by a law that bears the name Gasparri', if you do so, Mr President, they will change the name of the law, since it is later than yours, but it will remain the content, at least for the nine tenths. Then the President of the Council says: "The government and the parties must not interfere," but if so we wonder why our proposal for reform or that of other parts of the opposition was not accepted, simply by removing the policy from the management of appointments. Colleagues, even in the emptiness of this House someone has to ask himself: what is RAI? Is that the carousel? Is the public service that the Italians discovered by lighting for the first time the television that brought the information after the Light Institute? The RAI is the one of 90 minutes? What is RAI? We need to talk about content in order to understand what is done with reform and in this reform we talk about everything but content. But what does RAI represent today for citizens, a channel? There's hundreds of them, by satellite, by the way. By the way, has anyone taken care to do an experiment and go look at RAI's production and schedules on international satellites and channels? There are programs to be ashamed of because of the total absence of content. Is this a public service? I happened to watch a satellite transmission, which they could easily watch on the other side of the world, in which we talked about a typical Italian phenomenon, the Mafia; but we didn't talk about it as in a reportage of investigation done on RAI 1 following some criminal attack, but almost as if it were a matter of costume. But I ask: is there anyone going to look at the content? The Supervisory Board shall have that function. Let's go see what RAI is today; maybe for someone it can be simply dismissed as the opportunity to hire a relative and make him be the director or editor-in-chief or the simple employee (and so we understand why RAI has degenerated over time). If we talk about RAI to citizens, the first thing that comes to mind is certainly not a word foreign to tax vocabulary: the canon. But is this reform about how RAI funds itself? Do people really want to be told what the burden of public service must be, and what should be the state's intervention in supporting public service? We have learned with time that there are funding systems called advertising. We still have to understand today how some television networks are doing in the world only with advertising, while RAI is not enough for the fee and advertising; moreover - and I say this to the Government - it is far behind in terms of the structures and quality of the investments made available. It is clear: if everything goes into current spending. But do we want to remember the scandalous engagements that are paid when it comes to the Sanremo Festival or a transmission of varieties? Is this the public service? Is this the commitment the Renzi Government is putting in to reform RAI? No, none of this. Only one desire: to give a brushstroke by making believe that we are doing a reform, once again taking over functions that should be distinct from those of government, direction and control. This is the Government of the announcements, we heard it the other day too, by the way. Connect Arrigoni, next year they will remove the IMU, then remove the IRES, then the TASI. Then I expect that in 2018 there will be interventions that bring peace to the world; then they will abolish hunger in the world, disease will be removed by decree (it will live up to two hundred years) then we expect also the ascension of the President of the Council in the high heavens! These miraculous and frankly ridiculous aspects, please, avoid them. You talk about reforms in a serious way, because, if you have to talk about reforms, you have to talk about the content and not about the change of color in the painting of the house, not about the change of image, keeping the content fixed and unchanged and making the citizens believe that this is a Reforming Government when instead it uses the tools it has condemned to appropriate and manage the power within public structures with the money of the citizens, the canon, and the funding given by the State. Yes, but this serves and is useful for a function: to mask the emptiness on the part of the Government in carrying out these reforms. Let us remember, in fact, that taxes will fall only if the reforms go into effect. This is the underlying veiled blackmail that already gives the way out to President Renzi: everything that is reform must be brought home, because it will allow the lowering of taxes. To think wrong it is a sin - as someone who was sitting in this House said - but we are also right: this is the escape route, the way out of which we can say: 'that reform' - which is not reform - 'has not been done and therefore I am sorry, but the taxes could not lower it'; perhaps by blaming the minorities, who did not let him do what they wanted to do with a reform, such as that of the RAI, which reform is not, but that they want to pass as such to finally appropriate the communication systems. It is not enough for him to have De Benedetti and the other groups of great information in the country in his favour. Isn't this a typical Italian phenomenon? We're sure of it, of course. The great democracies are distinguished by pluralism; there has been a phase in the history of our country in which pluralism has materialized within the television system with the so-called partition. In this case, we are coming to the paradox, so, in the end, what works for the President of the Council of Ministers is the only form of pluralism that can be accepted. No, Mr President, if reform is to be discussed, it is precisely what citizens should expect; it should be the removal of politics and parties from the RAI. I understand that this is difficult for a government that has among its parliamentarians probably more relatives of RAI executives than members, but that's what you said, that's what Renzi said and that's making the citizens believe; and that's what it won't be. Meanwhile there are dozens and dozens of directors and chief editors within the public service who are there simply because they are placed because of the political division. We have all made mistakes and even those who have not yet made them, if they continue in this direction, will do so; but persevering in this way of working, even selling the measure as a renewal, is at least hypocritical. Hypocrite! It is not with the emphasis of reforms that a reform becomes important if it lacks content. Indeed, Mr President, this very House has treated the same way, with the same speed and superficiality (because outside there is talk about everything except the reform of the public service broadcasting), the reform of the banking system. Just these days the Deposit and Loan Fund is a new element that is added, after dealing with the so-called reform of the popular banks. The system is always the same. Renzi, from this point of view, is a perfect magician. It says: The system is rotten, the RAI is rotten, the parties have divided it; just as the banking system is rotten, it has led to hunger the citizens not giving credit, so, rightly, it takes responsibility, makes a reform and takes away all the pitfalls that citizens are so much on the boxes. In fact, what did the President do with the reform of popular banks? He simply created the conditions to appropriate it, to complete that political path that had not been possible for his predecessors, the secretaries of the Democratic Party. This is what is happening and which will happen in the coming weeks, even with RAI, making it seem that it has done a reform, but, in reality, continuing the partitioning logic simply pro duces its own. It is the same mechanism that - as I said - in total silence also guarantees media coverage. When was the top of the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, going even to modify the ethical code that prevented people being sued for top social charges, did the public service report any news of this? He said something to the citizens, like, Be careful, citizens, why can your bank and postal deposits, which the Deposit and Loan Bank uses, also be used for other functions? Who sent the President of the Council to run it? People under trial for fraudulent bankruptcy or even for fraud or other crimes I dare not even imagine. With the modification of the Code of Ethics of the Cash deposits and loans also these categories of subjects can be appointed to the top of the Cash deposits and loans, as then happened. Are these the reforms that will lead the country to be more credible? It is the reforms that will give President Renzi the chance to say: "Here, do we have the margin to reduce expenses and reduce taxes"? This has proclaimed and promised for 2016, 2017 and 2018, until it reaches its ascension to heaven. Is that what this is about? Ma'am, we're not here. What we regret is that, once again, we are smuggled to reform what is not. Let the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers give a government address, perhaps even with a decree-law, to block those indecorous engagements, which, in the face of citizens who today are without income, are given to cabaretists who go on television to the public service simply to make clowns! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This is what we would have liked to see in advance, first of all. This would have been a prerequisite for ethical and moral reform of the public service; but there is none of this because those clowns who are hired, at the height of millions, with millionaire contracts by RAI, are the same ones who then appear at the conventions of the Democratic Party to applaud Renzi. This is what is happening and you are doing, taking citizens by the nose! Mr President, this really has exceeded all the limits. Because these are excuses for believing that inadequate policy should be taken out of the way, this continuous deceiving of citizens, this making people believe that reform is taking place, that is not being done, that is all that bothers us and that we cannot bear. What government is this? It is the same Government that is unable to manage the flows of illegal immigrants who are also arriving in these hours in the total silence of the media, starting from the public one. If the news doesn't appear on the public service news, it's not that it doesn't exist. If the flows continue to be an average of a thousand per day, it is not that they do not exist, but the public service, liking to the addresses of the powerful that governs now, hides the news. The citizens must not realize that the situation is ungovernable. This is what Renzi needs, a pseudo-reform that allows him to govern the RAI, using the worst partition systems, keeping citizens away from the management and the choice of responsibility of those who must direct the RAI and making possible a total media coverage that guarantees the Government impunity compared to its inability to address and resolve the problems of the country. In fact, where the government's capacity does not come, the state public service arrives by correcting the news and making it more docile and meek to the public. This is not a public service, President. This is something that is not even in Eastern Europe today. Some people were talking about Bulgaria, but we went further because there is also a semblance of democracy smuggled here, whereas in reality the content has not changed at all. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u28	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u29	Mr President, the importance of RAI goes beyond what is seen. That radiotelevision was a tool that in the past contributed to a rapid literacy and cultural growth of a whole nation: from the affirmation of language and identity to the integration of populations divided by distant cultures. Today it is characterized, instead, to be a complex coacervo of interests at the mercy of the parties and their changing conveniences, enslaved to untransparent mercantile logics that put, too often, in the background every ideal and cultural aspect. RAI is also a powerful tool for the promotion in the world of the Italian system and, in the common perception, of those that should be the values on which our society is founded; but it is also a productive system, a company, and as such it must be governed. The bill n. 1795 at our examination wants to affirm this simple evidence and, at the same time, redefine an instrument of promotion of a modern multimedia culture: a cultural laboratory tending to bring back to the right coordinates a vision, often becera, of the society of the image and, by this way, forerunner and test of the future, but also instrument of a growth that continues to be accessible to all. The debate from which this bill springs is what the association MoveOn Italia has animated in recent years and of which it has been believed to transpose the best intentions, trying to draw those mechanisms useful to the affirmation of the objectives indicated, bringing RAI to the citizens and giving it a modern and transparent organization, functional to that cultural role desired: a role as incubator of ideas, available to the cultural and civic growth of each, in the interest of the community, aimed at producing and promoting the best potential available in the field of information, culture and science, but also in areas of broad social importance, such as that of the economy. Therefore, in accordance with the objectives that we want to pursue, we wanted to turn to a simple model, but participatory and rewarding with respect to the merits, as well as respectful of a spirit that separates from a party-family management, in order to help restore an image different from that of dwarves and dancers who have marked Italy in recent decades. The ambition is to revive social growth, both cultural and economic, which has determined the affirmation of the Italian model in the world, synonymous with an unmistakable lifestyle for creativity and ability to influence the common aesthetic sense. The article, which I am going to illustrate now, seeks to affirm this idea, defining the structure of an independent and transparent public company, understood as a common good and felt as its own by the citizen. Article 1 defines the object of the proposal and the principles to be followed by the public broadcasting service, while Article 2 outlines the business structure of RAI, which is linked to its public service mission. Articles 3, 4 and 5 redesign the governing bodies and guarantees of the Company and determine its composition, rules, training criteria and competences. In particular, Article 3 establishes the Guarantee Board, which takes over the supervisory and control tasks of the Supervisory Committee on RAI, which is consequently deleted, and of which it inherits powers (but not dependence on policy), as well as protection and guidance tasks in relation to the implementation of the reform. Article 4 also provides for a new discipline of the Management Board, in accordance with criteria which can meet the need for competence, democracy, transparency and independence set out in the preamble. To this end, Article 6 provides for certain general operating guarantees common to all roles and valid for fundamental aspects of reorganisation, indispensable for the pursuit of the objectives of this bill. Article 7 regulates and defines the use of the fee, as well as the economic resources with which the Company will be able to finance itself; these provisions, although included in a separate chapter, constitute a fundamental aspect of the guarantees referred to in Article 6. Article 8 requires a special implementing regulation to regulate the areas and possibilities of citizen participation in the project, both in the establishment of the bodies imagined by the rule and in the assessment of the product and the allocation of resources. Finally, Article 9 defines the possibility of interested in the guarantee board in order to obtain protection against the right of access and use of the public service in all its expressions and modalities, as well as with respect to the administration and management of the company in all its assets, restating, moreover, the validity of the ordinary ways of protection. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Mineo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u30	Mr President, I shall begin by saying what is in the draft law and which, in my opinion, has not been sufficiently highlighted in the debate, either in the Commission or now in this House. The bill contains two very important delegations to the Government, the first of which concerns RAI resources. This is a decisive delegation because RAI has been built in the last twenty-five years, in the time of duopoly, putting a lot of meat to the fire (if you want, on the counter): RAI is a service RAI, which must invest in Italian audiovisual. RAI is a commercial RAI, with Network 1 competing and still winning in audience statistics. RAI is the RAI of the Regions, and has an exhibition in the Regions that no other European network has. Well, if the government can, as it pleases, open and close the resource tap, that's the only reason why it completely controls the public service concessionary company. I would add that the government can be tempted, for political and electoral reasons, to reduce the fee, granting a magnificent bonus and giving a gift to some millions of citizens. You know, in fact, how much the tax called a canon is inscribed. The second delegation concerns the rewriting of the single text, which lays down the rules for all public and private televisions. Now, because for objective reasons, which have to do with the fact that television has become a mature product, the two private giants existing today, namely Mediaset and Sky, have an interest in building a cartel agreement, a duopoly, the Government puts itself in the position to manage this transition, from a historical public-private duopoly to a private-private duopoly. The other delegation, that of the resources, is therefore functional to this project. I would like the senators to realize that, by passing this law, they give these powers to the Government, without indicating the criteria and without even a reference to the public radio and television service (and not to the parties or government) that, as you know. has been defined by a number of judgments of the Constitutional Court. What is not in the law is the reason why Matteo Renzi presented it. The Secretary of the PD and President of the Council said that the time had come to abolish the taking of parties on the RAI. Actually, this time had already come. In fact, Senator Malan is right when he says that, if it was difficult, at the time of the monopoly, that the parties did not take over the various networks, and if it was difficult even at the time of the duopoly to lose political control, today, in fact, there is no reason for this political overpower over the RAI; In fact, this overpower is likely to stifle the company. From this point of view, the law is more than disappointing. I want to give you this example. Assume that Mr. Rossi is appointed director of a news report or RAI network. Who's calling him? The CEO, in turn appointed by the Government. So Mr. Rossi, director of a warhead, has to answer the government through the CEO. But then he has on his head a political body, the board of directors, which will have a majority of four members who are part of the majority government, with two members of the opposition and a seventh member, representative of RAI employees. Four to three at most, while on the old board of directors there were five to four. It doesn't change anything. What doesn't change for the poor director is that, in addition to responding to the CEO of government appointment, he has to respond to a political body, which is the board of directors. But it is not enough, because above the political body called the Management Board there is another political body, called the Parliamentary Supervisory Committee. The Parliamentary Supervisory Committee, despite the draft, takes away the power to appoint its members, has regained a very important power in the work of the Commission. In fact, the text which was laid down for the House says that the appointment of the President of the RAI is only perfected when he receives the approval of two thirds of the parliamentary supervisory committee. In essence, a president of the RAI, who goes to the opposition, as he was in the previous situation, is proposed. (18.14) (Follows MINEO). It is not enough, because there is still AGCOM, which is always a political appointment. You understand then that when someone claims that this law wants to eliminate the taking of parties by RAI makes a statement that absolutely does not respond to the truth. Was there an alternative option? Yes, there was and I tabled some amendments to show you. The alternative was that the President of the Council should be inspired by the text proposed by a very close collaborator, the current Foreign Minister Gentiloni, who a few years ago presented a draft law for RAI which provided for a foundation for RAI - only in part of a political appointment - that would establish guidelines and exercise a control function. On the basis of this proposal, the board of directors appointed by the foundation would then have full managerial and operational autonomy. This type of facility, very similar to that of the BBC, would really free RAI from the parties. Then I ask my Government, the Secretary of the Democratic Party: why this proposal, which was good when the Government was Berlusconi, is very bad now that the Government is Renzi? Why didn't you come back to such a proposal? The question is very clearly that, when you govern, you want to put your hands in the dough and you do it better with the delegation on resources and on the single text, rather than building that architecture of the autonomy of RAI that Gentiloni - not me - had proposed. But at this point then - and I start with the conclusions - what to do? If you want this law to be passed also with your contribution - I see that we are very few in the Chamber, but maybe someone is listening to us from home or will read the Reports - I would advise you to change completely ritual and ask what is the objective: is it that of a CEO who decides according to a corporate and private logic? Well, let's leave the CEO and the Government full control of the Company and leave AGCOM as the only control tool. Am I crazy? No, because if things are clear, it is possible that that famous director Rossi at some point, where he said so many yes to the Government, also say some no and that he is the interpreter of the necessary autonomy of the Company. If, on the other hand, government leadership is diluted in a joint and divisional practice - someone said the Nazarene pact, but I don't care what kind of pact it is - the autonomy of RAI leaders and journalists is even more constricted: better to say clearly that you want to give RAI to the government than to do this thing. There would be one last possibility and it is an offense, a proposal that I make to some colleagues I know of on the parliamentary right, even if there are some colleagues on the left who make proposals of this kind: because RAI really has a lot of meat on the counter and will not be able to keep it all - I am afraid especially for regional offices, which are too many; there is in the law a device that could reduce resources by giving it to private televisions and this would create a problem of probable and rapid layoffs in that sector - because we do not propose in a bipartisan way that procedures be built to divide the RAI of the public service, which is therefore financed only by the fee, by RAI that finances with advertising revenue, as a premise of a privatization of at least this second RAI, what to understand is Network 1? It is a liberal proposal, but less offensive to the Company - for which, I say this by the way, I worked from 1978 to 2013 - than this ruling democracy, which then associates with the opposition in a frankly unclean mess. These two proposals would serve to shake the Senate Assembly and lead us to have an operational discussion, because there is the risk that with this type of law it is politics - now that it no longer has that extraordinary interest, that almost necessity, that it was thirty years ago to control RAI - and the parties to completely stifle the Public Company, like the scorpion that, transported by a frog, stings and drowns, but it was in its nature. Let's not make this mistake. [[Applause from Senators Campanella and Fornaro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u31	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u32	Madam President, I would like to play some kind of game, continuing to address the President of the Council, Renzi. That would be the same situation as when he comes to this House and is totally disinterested by the senators, because he looks exclusively on the media side and speaks for the media to listen to him. There is one reason why President Renzi is probably so interested in the reform of the television system. Parliament has shown little interest, perhaps less, in the country, but the image, the management of the same and what creates it, that is, public information, is quite interesting for our President of the Council, who imposed and wants to characterize his government activity on reforms. He has brought some here and today we are discussing the radio and television system. One question must be asked: reforms for whom? Looking at this text, it absolutely does not seem to serve the users of the service. Is this for the internal system, for the users? Doesn't look like it. But then for whom was it made, given birth, thought this reform? When they did not know what to take, the Latins used the formula of which prodest and normally always found the way to go to unravel a skein. If we talk about this reform in an aseptic way we probably understand little (my colleague Mr Candiani has already mentioned it), in fact the content is scarce; it must be seen in a much broader context, considering the other reforms, partly implemented and partly in progress. We see a reform, that of the electoral system, the Italicum, with which President Renzi obtained that the majority prize goes to the first list: the list that gets the most votes in the country will get an absolute majority and will no longer need to make any kind of alliances. At the same time as the reform of the electoral system, constitutional reform is already incardinated (we are at the third reading of the Senate): the Senate no longer counts anything, it will no longer give confidence, it will no longer approve the budgets; it is a House on a dead track, which will still have some small function and in this case it will still come into play, but it will be composed of regional councillors or mayors of the capital city. If we take the photograph of the country today, it seems that Renzi wondered how to get his hands on the institutional system without doing too much trouble and answered: I use what I have. Do I have the majority of mayors of the regional capitals? Great. Do I have the majority of regional assemblies? Great. With these majorities, the majority of the Senate will certainly not escape me. Let us go further: once a party majority is created, it will no longer need anyone to elect the President of the Republic for the fourth ballot. I am going back to the bomb: a party secretary compiles the electoral lists, the Italians no longer vote, the capilists enter by right, maybe a third of the MPs will be able to enter the House with preferences, that majority can quietly appoint the President of the Republic. That majority, plus its President of the Republic, will appoint the majority of the constitutional bodies of the Supreme Courts: the controllers, the controlled, everything is part of the family. Allow me to digression, because in order to understand we must jump from the right bank to the left bank and go back to talking about public service, that is to say the reform that we are discussing today. Point one. Some might wonder if RAI is a public service because it is for the public or because it is totally in public hands. Today, in fact, the reform that we are going to launch will not only enable us to have everything in public hands, but also in party hands. Once, despite the imperfection of the pluralist system, there was a minimum of pluralism. When the vicuperata RAI lottizzata had RAI 1 in the hands of the Christian Democracy, RAI 2 in the hands of the Socialist Party and RAI 3, because there is one for everyone, in the hands of the Communist Party, shouted at the lottization. Today? Today it is in the hands of the party that wins the election. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] It is a laughing reform: from nine to seven members of the board of directors go from nine to seven, but, by chance, of these seven, four are appointed by the Chambers, that is, by the majority that emerges from the elections, two basically from the Government, so six out of seven have in hand the fate of the public information of this country. In fact, they appoint the president of the RAI, appoint the managing director (with almost greater powers of the president), who appoints all network directors and all the directors of the magazine. There was talk of a lot of RAI because the parties had put their hands on the RAI, but with the Renzi government as well as their hands have also put their feet! With a carpiato jump he took basically everything: win and do nothing. Remember that variant of the broom where the ace took everything? Well, Renzi has brought in the former Italian democratic system the play of the lullaby: I win the elections and, cascade, basically I bring home everything. What is a regime? Good or bad at school we studied it. What is a democracy? We have also studied the mechanisms of weights and counterweights, and how much it took to elaborate in '48 our Constitution in which, undoubtedly, it was necessary to bear in mind the conformation of the country, the cultural approaches of the post-war country, but also the possibility of cross-checks so that no constitutional body, elected or not, could override the other constitutional bodies. It's all gone. Can we say that we are in a system of dictatorship? Well, it's strong, but someone coined the term "democracture" because, even with an election, one invests, in fact, a Plenipotentiary able to do what he wants, to disassemble what he wants and to ridicule the situation. He's probably gonna put on a propaganda minister. Once there was Minculpop and we knew its functions. All right, a completely government-owned RAI! I dare not think what those few free journalists - who probably exist, in RAI as in all newspapers - will do with a pyramid of this type, with the ranks of headmasters up to the network directors, appointed according to the same political logic. Well, or you align, you fit - all aligned and covered - otherwise you are dead. Within RAI the many qualities, intellectual, journalistic or of good will, will probably do nothing. I don't know how many people are realizing it. Why did I make a bit of a fuss? Because we have to put everything together and figure out where we're going. Let us give to a party secretary the opportunity to have an overwhelming majority in the only House that will continue to have real powers, to appoint to scale all the constitutional bodies (from the President of the Republic to the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Courts) and to appoint all the organization chart and what counts of public information, which then public will no longer be, because it will remain in the hands of a public system, but will be controlled by a party system. All this is ugly, it's a bob trail from which if you start to slip you no longer go back. There are still a lot of free people who can understand that if we don't pull the handbrake now, maybe we won't even have a chance to do it anymore. With regard to the great reform of the RAI, as well as talking about content, Mr Candiani made a passionate and also very profound speech. A four-point reform would have been sufficient: first, abandon the RAI fee, dear RAI; second, do quality services; third, streamline costs; fourth, stay on the market. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] The listeners will reward you if you deserve it. It would have been a very simple reform. He's taking a nasty turn here. While talking about public service and talking about RAI, let's put it in context: here we are taking the path of democratization. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Minzolini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u33	Senator Margiotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u34	Madam President, I am speaking in this debate to try to make my contribution and to suggest some reflections. The path I would have preferred would probably have been different (I have spoken about it in other circumstances): first define well the mission of RAI and public service, then governance and then the canon. But in politics things are done also on the basis of the timing that dictates them, and in this case there was an urgency, the reform of governance, considering that the board of directors has expired. So the government has done well to address this issue with this bill, of which I will say the various positivity. However, on the mission, we give a strong delegation to the Government, which responsibly, through the Undersecretary Giacomelli, felt in the Commission to make it somewhat softer, but which remains entirely in the hands of the Executive. Again with regard to the mission, on which I will conclude my speech, it must also be said that in the Supervisory Committee we have done a good job on the service contract and that from there we can absolutely start to try to deepen the issues, as will be the case in the coming months. In the meantime, let's not start from scratch. We heard in the hearing Ingrid Deltenre - the Director-General of EBU, the European Broadcasting Union - say that RAI, with low costs, has excellent results. I am pleased to say it, because we too often have the taste of self-flagellation and, when abroad they recognize us good things, why not boast about it? All right, unlike what Mr Mineo said earlier, continue with the scheme of hybrid funding for RAI, partly through advertising and partly through the fee. And that is precisely because, if we believe - and I believe it - that RAI must continue, as was said about the BBC, to do education, information and entertainment, it is clear that all three of these aspects are held together only if we add up the revenue from advertising with the revenue deriving from what will be up to the citizens to continue paying. I say in some way why, if in the exercise of the delegation the Government will continue on the track to which the undersecretary Giacomelli worked at the end of last year, the canon can be radically lowered and you can succeed at the same time to pay less and pay everyone, as they say in the best of the traditions. I have heard in these days some very strange things about this bill, many times also the result of misinformation. Now, it is legitimate to criticize this bill because it is believed that the CEO has too much power and it can be legitimate to criticize it from the other side, that is to say that, because of the work done in the Commission (of which I will say), the text under consideration determines a model of government that needs convergence, and so someone speaks again. What is not legitimate is to hear the same colleagues criticize the law for both reasons, for the contradiction that does not allow, as Dante would say. On the other hand, I think that from the draft law and the work done in the Commission, thanks to the competence and intelligence of the rapporteurs, as well as of the Undersecretary Giacomelli, a perfect system of check and balance has emerged, which can enable us to overcome both of the problems to which we referred before. I say this briefly: in the meantime, the composition of the Board of Directors, with four members elected by the Chambers and not by the Supervisory Authority, should be a guarantee of their authority. We will therefore have four board members who will be voting in these classrooms, choosing them at the highest level - I hope and I am sure of that - between authoritative and prestigious people. Moreover, it is true that all appointments are the responsibility of the managing director, but as already foreseen in the original bill presented by the Government, they take place after hearing the board of directors, which has the possibility to revoke the same managing director. What CEO, then, will make so many appointments against the board of directors, knowing that it has the last word also to revoke it? This check-and-balance system has, in my view, been improved in the Commission. In the meantime, it has been said that the board of directors must be heard and then it has been established that only for the appointment of the heads of directors the opinion, as well as mandatory, becomes binding, but only if the two thirds of the board of directors express themselves in a contrary way. As you can see, there is no emptying of the CEO's powers, but there is a strong focus on democracy and the fact that we are all opposed to the idea of a man only in command. Some argue that the chairman, elected by the board of directors, should be confirmed by the two-thirds vote of the Supervisory Board. Well, that is exactly the guarantee of democracy, authority, prestige, independence, third-party and the strength of a President, who no longer has the powers of before and who will therefore only be the guarantor of the Board of Directors. In the Commission we have also improved the text in other respects, such as the incompatibility, requirements and competences of the members. Attention is then paid to genders and generations and a mechanism is created to appoint the RAI employee representative, which is another major innovation. I am particularly aware of some trade union representatives who in these hours say that they do not want to exercise such an important and innovative right. We have established, also on the basis of an amendment of mine, that it can become CEO also an employee of RAI: it seems to me a very fair thing, because it is a company rich in professionalism, skills and quality. I think we can also make some other improvements: as the Director General Gubitosi, who has done a good job so far, has to look more like a company than an ASL. We can also go in this direction through the amendments tabled in this House. I will conclude, Mr President, by pointing out that much has been said, even in a somewhat rhetorical way, about the fact that RAI has helped to make Italy and to make Italians' language and unity. If that has been the case, there is a new mission that I believe we must have the ambition to entrust to the public service. The last few weeks have also shown in a grievous way how difficult and harsh the road to Europe is. I therefore wonder why RAI and public service should not have this new objective. The ancient RAI made Italy: the new one helps to make Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u35	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pelino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u36	Madam President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating an important bill in this House, which concerns the national public broadcasting service. The reform of the RAI, as initially conceived by the Government, immediately received quite rightly, bitter controversy, from several parts. Since 27 March, when the Government presented in the Senate the draft law to reform the governance of the RAI, the Public Works Commission has carried out a profound work of modification, which we at Forza Italia consider absolutely better than the text from which we started, although profiles that leave us perplexed. In this respect, there is no doubt about the contribution of the members of the Commission, who, through substantial amendments, have actually revisited some nodal points of the bill presented by the Government. The draft law of government initiative provided for a new governance, with seven councilors instead of the nine planned until today; these appointed not by the parliamentary supervisory committee, but, respectively: four by the Parliament (two by the House and two by the Senate), two by government nomination and a member appointed by the employee assembly. In addition, the Government's bill introduced two key novelties that received heavy criticism: the first attributed wide discretionary powers to the figure of the head of the company with functions of managing director; the second concerned the election of the Chairman of the board of directors no longer with the vote of two thirds of the Supervisory Board, but within the board of directors. As I mentioned earlier, thanks to a number of amendments adopted in the Commission, the text has been changed, at least in the most important parts. In this sense, the text presented here today reaffirms two fundamental principles: the RAI's supervisory function remains in fact in the hands of Parliament and the Supervisory Committee; the members become seven, but the appointment of the President, carried out by the Council itself within its members, becomes effective after the acquisition of the favourable opinion, expressed by a two-thirds majority of the Supervisory Commission. Not only that, if the draft law of the Government provided that the managing director could have defined the criteria and methods of recruitment of the staff, that is to say that he could have directly selected the most important figures of the Company, then appoint director, head of network, after hearing the board of directors, who had no role of veto or ban, now, with the amendment approved in the Commission, the managing director, for the directors of network, channel and tested, must acquire the mandatory opinion of the board of directors. The opinion becomes binding, for the heads of the publications, if it is expressed by a two-thirds majority. There are, therefore, some differences between the text of the Government and that approved by the Commission. If before the objective was to give more powers to the head of the company, with the changes introduced the board of directors returns to be central in the activity of control and function of the RAI. Not only that, but bringing back the approval of the appointment of the president of the RAI in the context of the duties of the Supervisory Committee means that this figure is chosen on the basis of an agreement of the various parties that make up the Commission. It was only a trick to propose a necessary reform of the RAI in order to put an end to the partitioning of the parties, because without the appropriate amendments the result would have been that of a single party RAI supremacy. On the basis of the numerous judgments of the Constitutional Court in which the public service nature of RAI is reaffirmed, it would have been wrong to adopt a law that provides for the substantial dominance of a single party on public television. Our opinion is very critical of the original draft law, with which the Government has tried to subtract all control from Parliament, and it is, on the contrary, positive of the improved contribution made during the examination of the measure in the Commission. The fact remains that there are still strong concerns about some aspects of the reform: too many discretionary powers remain at the head of the CEO and the governing party (now the PD) focuses on itself too many powers of RAI public service management. I therefore hope that the debate in this House will contribute to a further improvement in the reform. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Undersecretary, rapporteurs, we are undoubtedly dealing with a central issue for democracy, which is information. We are also addressing the issue of public service information, the famous RAI that is of the citizens, which is of everyone and so we know not to be, or at least to date not to have been. With this reform we could change towards, as someone says, and this could certainly be done by thinking of a new mission of RAI, so starting from what we would like as a public service, for which citizens have to pay a fee that, as we know, is not so appreciated by most of them, even perhaps for the type of public service that is offered. After defining the mission, we should have talked about governance, that is the management model necessary to achieve this type of public service and then talk about canon, that is, how much money it takes to finance this that we want is the public service of the Italian RAI Radio Television. The principles from which the 5 Star Movement started were very simple and are similar to those that the President of the Council wanted to relaunch with this government bill: those of a slim, small, operational board of directors, with a great ability to act, to change this pachyderma that is the RAI, which certainly includes great professionalism, but also so much mediocrity, many products that are no longer good, desuited, and so much incompetence. The difference between our vision and that of the Government was the level of independence this board of directors had to have. It began immediately to talk about governance probably because governance is the articulation between politics, parties, political power and information in this country and we wanted to release it completely, maintaining precisely what was to be an operational ability to face the great challenges that await RAI, which are incredible, because in five or six years probably generalist television as we already know it will no longer exist, so RAI should make a path of change, becoming what you call media company, launched on the web and on multiplatform. But that was not the case, because speaking of governance you have addressed the subject by beginning to speak again of members of the board voted by Parliament, of which two, including the Managing Director, chosen by the Government, but that has been said to you almost all and I do not want to go back to that aspect. However, I would like at this point, on this measure, which is impossible for us as it is, to be considered at least some proposals that I think are basic, because they are, among other things, in line with the statements made by Matteo Renzi in the first place. When Matteo Renzi talks about overcoming the Gasparri law, when he talks about a new media company, about a public service adapted to our times, but especially when he says "Outside parties and politics from RAI" is exactly what we would like. I cannot explain why, in the Commission, some of our proposals, which the rapporteur has taken into account for the House (and here I want to compare them with you and propose them to you) have been rejected. I would like to take a step back, quoting an article from 2005. I have to say that the main issue is to prevent politicians from residing on RAI's boards or even becoming managing directors of RAI. The article I'm talking about is about Petruccioli's case, it's written by Travaglio, so you'll forgive his vitriol language, which I know you don't like, but which I appreciate. I'll give you a summary so you can save the worst staffilates. It is stated that the president of the parliamentary supervisory committee RAI Claudio Petruccioli, Senator of the DS, goes on pilgrimage to the home of the owner of Mediaset and leaves with the investiture of the president of the RAI and that the new director-general is an employee in expectation of RAI, Alfredo Meocci, already parliamentary of the UDC, already member of the Authority for the guarantees in communications. So we have two former controllers who, by chance, sit at the top of the company they were supposed to control, all thanks to the designation of the owner of the competing company that, among other things, is also the Head of Government. And here we are talking about Berlusconi and the serious conflict of interest that we have not yet resolved. In fact, it is said - I do not know if it is history the pie pact, prior to that of the Nazarene - that it was precisely Petruccioli, at the time, to cover up in the 8th Commission a bill on conflict of interest. It is a fact that former ministers sit on this new board of directors: Urbani di Forza Italia, and four MPs: Malgeri di AN, Rognoni dei DS, Bianchi Clerici della Lega, the same Urbani and three directors of party newspapers, but on these we overlook. If it is true that we want to take the parties out of the RAI, we risk finding ourselves in exactly the same situation with such a system. What caused such a situation? The Bulgarian edict, when Petruccioli was president of the RAI Supervisory Committee and pretended nothing. These are things on which the Democratic Party (at that time it was called otherwise) did historical battles. Well, we are telling you that this model will come back exactly as it was then and we want to change it. What did we propose? We have asked you, please, to accept our positive and negative requirements. In particular, among the negative ones there is precisely the fact that anyone who is a candidate as CEO or member of the Board of Directors of RAI has not held elective positions of any order and rank. It often happens, among other things, that those of editor-in-chief and deputy editor-in-chief are as many attractive armchairs for fucking politics; it happened in Turin and will happen again. So, I was saying, of every order and grade elected in the last legislature: we are not talking about who knows what. Among other things, this request was opposed to the fact that it could be unconstitutional. Well, in the RAI Supervisory Committee we had the hearing of Enzo Cheli, who seems to me a high profile character (he was at the RAI Summit, member of the Constitutional Court), who said that an exception of this kind not only does not present profiles of unconstitutionality, but is desirable because information is a fourth power, and as such should not be controlled by other powers. Let's keep going. Not only must there be no candidates who have not held elected positions, but also who have not held positions in party secretariats or who have not held government posts in the last five, six, seven years (on this we have tabled several amendments). It seems to me a simple matter of common sense. This is linked to another concept, namely that independence is linked to competence, which is another central point. Everyone currently requires expertise in RAI, because when politics decides to manage the information, it does not make the good ones career, but the mediocre ones: this is happening in RAI. When we addressed this issue at the hearing both in the RAI Supervisory Committee and in the 8th Commission, this bill did not please anyone because of these peculiarities: EBU did not like it, that is, the association that gathers all public services, with more than a billion European spectators; it did not like the RAI unions, the Italian National Press Federation, those who work in the RAI. The citizens would not like it if they were informed, but there is the total absence of journalists. This morning, for example, there was a press conference of the Italian National Press Federation (FNSI) and USIGRAI, and - think - RAI itself did not send a crew. There was TG2, of TG1 no one showed up and RAI News sent the classic room without even the journalist (which is forbidden, but that continues to happen). That's what we report. I sincerely believe that competence is even more important than independence from a certain point of view, because I can also imagine that we will never get out of a controlled public service, but I would like at least there to be people who are capable of doing this job. In the First Republic this happened: we auditioned Garimberti, who is certainly not an independent politician, because he had his knowledge, but he was a capable one; he made a wonderful audition in which he explained exactly what a public service should be, leaner. We keep an RAI that is an elephant, has many channels that transmit things that no one looks at, has immense resources that may remain in the warehouses. RAI has a great role: to carry on the Italian cultural industry; it is a pity that it has also remained in the hands of established client circuits for which, in the end, the films and fictions always make the same; among other things, with some rare exception, the fictions are ugly and not marketable. This is citizens' money! Good repute is the other fundamental element; we have talked about it and many things have been transposed, but we can do more. I wonder: aren't these the conditions, the basic principles, indispensable for everyone? Or do we want to continue in this incitement, in saving the television of a certain gentleman, favoring him, with advertising and other choices, the possibility of making money with Mediaset? We've seen enough. When I saw in the Commission that Senator Gasparri was happy with certain choices, I got the badge, I thought it would go on exactly the same way, that it is no longer bearable for anyone. There are so many journalists who have spoken. To our blog Lucia Annunziata gave an interview in which he told the political pressures he had received; he told that in 1996, when he was at TG3 (there was Ulivo then), after every news, it was a continuous call. We said to involve civil society. Renzi has made great announcements: let's open the tables, let's talk about it. I bet he didn't even talk to Senator Zavoli; I don't want to put him in the middle because I have too much respect, but it's a pillar of television and you mentioned it yourself from PD. I don't know if Renzi sent you, Senator Zavoli, a text, as you said in February this year. His way of involving public society, in fact, is like this: either by announcing tables that have never left or with text messages. I cannot believe that this is the destiny of RAI: to procrastinate the clientele system, political, mediocre who continue to reach apical positions, while those who are capable are thrown into a corner. We have talked about excessive delegation, of which we are afraid, and that is another fundamental point. We go back to the whole unique text on television. Fortunately the delegation on the mission has been eliminated, but the mission continues to be in the hands of too many bodies and we have proposed to reform it: AGCOM can get us, the Ministry of Economic Development can get us. The RAI Supervisory Committee has drawn up a service contract - which may now be signed late - which contains excellent principles. When we want supervision in the Commission, we work together and things voted unanimously come out. How is it possible that, in this House, we are not able to start this minimum system with requirements? We asked for a public procedure for all the members of the board of directors and you only gave it to us for some. But is it asking for the moon? It seems like a simple, basic thing to me. We asked for a transparent procedure, with the presentation of curricula, also for the CEO: this can also be obtained. I have tabled a number of amendments, because I want to do a battle. The amendments that I propose seem to me to be so sensible that they cannot but be accepted, particularly with regard to the negative requirements. And then, about the positive requirements, let's talk about the competences that the managing directors and the members of the board that will have to operate on all fronts, that of programming, the editorial one, that of technological renewal, the legal one, obviously, because it is a company. We're not asking for the moon. Accept these amendments and perhaps RAI will start again in another way. We are very willing to dialogue, from now on, there is no problem; but dialogue must be mutual. I do not need general statements of competence, because we have already seen what they have produced; they have produced these gentlemen here: the Mauro Masi, the Claudio Petruccioli, a Verro that we are still waiting to understand whether the ethical committee of RAI will hunt or not. Sure, it's late, but these people have made the worst history of Italian television. It's time to close it, I beg you. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u39	He's enlisted to speak Senator Filippi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, within a few weeks, the 8th Senate Commission has brought two important measures of interest to the House: the reform of the procurement code and today the reform of the RAI and the radio and television system. Without any emphasis, we can talk about two of the announced and long-awaited structural reforms. We have done so, as it is natural that it is, in a close, intense confrontation, sometimes even harsh, but that - I feel like saying - has undoubtedly enriched some of the initial text offered by the Government. Here I want to immediately acknowledge the undersecretary Giacomelli of the undisputed merit of having opened up to a comparison of merit, although already the original text was unquestionably a good text. Nevertheless, the text approved in the Commission has made significant changes both on the mechanisms governing the governance of the RAI and on the definition of delegations to the Government, specifying properly its content and objectives, without this twisting the original plant but also without, I would like to say for intellectual honesty, that the debate watered down the points of view that were animated in the comparison, that were different and probably remained so. No such thing, no acquiescence on the part of anyone. Parliament's prerogative has been safeguarded: the minority's right to make amending proposals and to see them, when consonant, accepted; the duty of the Government and of the majority supporting it, to bring the acts of its government action to approval. For us there are many and important innovative and qualifying points of the measure under consideration, starting from the reform of the governance of the RAI, which, with the text in approval, recognizes the need to the Company for greater autonomy and independence from the parties and the Government, depending on the challenges that the innovation processes that characterize the sector will entail. Greater autonomy and independence is taken on the basis of the maximum interpretation that company law allows in this case. The Board of Directors consists of seven members, two of whom are appointed by the Government, four by the Parliament (two by each of the Chamber and Senate Assemblies) and one appointed by the workers of the RAI company, which is an absolute novelty and worthy of note. The rule provides that the outgoing Board of Directors will regulate and ensure the way voting is carried out, according to criteria of secrecy and promoting maximum participation in the vote also by electronic means and also guaranteeing the right of access to autonomous nominations within the time limits provided for and in accordance with the modalities regulated by the norm. I would like to focus on one aspect which, in my view, has not been given the proper importance and importance in the debate in the Commission. I am referring to the fact that not only have the conditions of incompatibility and ineligibility of the members of the Board of Directors been regulated, but also that the procedure of self-application and its necessary transparency from the point of view of the requirements of merit and good repute, as they say in the jargon, have been fully satisfied. The terms of possible conflicts of interest and the incompatibility profiles arising from the appointment have been defined. But the most important aspect was, in my opinion, the choice of the two elected Chamber and Senate assemblies to elect their members, a guarantee of the quality and prestige of the parliamentary representation that will be held, as usual for procedures of similar election. Particular attention, as it was natural, has been recorded on the figure of the managing director, that the majority and the Government have wished to conceive as as much as possible assimilable to the figure of actual head of the company, as it previews the company law. The substantive debate and the close discussion carried out in the Commission have allowed to make some significant changes to the original text, aimed at ensuring a greater connection of the managing director to the board of directors, making binding the acts of the latter, expressed by the majority of two thirds, on the main nominations of the RAI publications and providing for the appointment of the elected president on the board of directors, subject to the ratification of the two thirds of the Supervisory Commission, to obvious guarantee and protection of a concert also with the parliamentary minorities. As you understand, if you like, the rule outlines an institutional architecture of governance that safeguards both the principle that conceived it and the main concerns that had been expressed. But the inspiring principles and concerns are called upon to deal not so much with the numbers of parliamentary prevalence, but with the effective compliance with the guarantee of pluralism that a public service must protect. As we well know, in the years that are behind us the RAI has been, not only the first cultural company in the country but, at the same time, also a powerful apparatus of generation of consensus and influence of public opinion. Here - it is good to say frankly - two different visions of how to respond to the guarantee of independent and plural public television service have been contrasted. These visions can only be partly traced back to the natural play of the parties between majority and parliamentary minorities, but rather to the degree of conviction that the guarantee of the law is greater than what politics can guarantee. If there is no certainty of our future (as determined by us as the will of the pro tempore majority in Parliament) we can certainly say, however, that the path we leave was not free from imperfections and distortions to all of us. Therefore, we open ourselves with a serene and sincere conviction that the expected model can be an undoubted improvement of the current situation. We want a more efficient RAI but, at the same time, more respectful of the rules. This is true of democratic pluralism, which, incidentally, is not just a parliamentary dialectic, but is even more important for the management of public money. For this reason - I say it now - we do not agree that there is any derogation from the procurement code, precisely at the stage in which we reform it, except for the purchase of content and television programs that, as it is intuitable, underlie other logics and dynamics compared to those that govern the supplies and services in general. On this point we reaffirm our intransigence, in the conviction that one thing is the internal procurement procedures, which can be simplified and streamlined (just for this, we foresee a greater responsibility in the head of the managing director), while another thing is the sacrosanct respect of the rules that preside to the public expenditure. The measure also contains two important delegations to the Government, destined - in my opinion - to mark an era: the abolition of the current fee, whose rate of evasion has now reached an unsustainable level of disease, and the forecast of a tariff that can guarantee a predetermined and certain revenue. The objective, as has been mentioned, is that of the all too easy slogan "to pay everyone to pay less" and to give certainty of funding to the public television service. A factor of absolute novelty and importance is the fact that, with this new financing system, the public service role played by local broadcasters is also recognised and supported: this aspect, which I personally consider to be the start of a phase that can potentially revolutionize the system of making public television service. The other delegation, more complex and articulated, on which we will be able to return well beyond the deadlines laid down, is the one that involves the most comprehensive reform of the radio and television system. For the moment, the mandate we give to the Government is to rewrite in a harmonious and unique way a single text that also allows a better intelligibility, repealing pre-existing norms to the last legislative text. It will then be a question of defining the television of the future, the one that already today the process of digitization in progress foreshadows us and outlines with greater interactivity and according to a process of convergence of the distribution platforms. In conclusion, could more be done? Maybe. Could it have been better? No doubt. The important thing is that, for once, the best was not an enemy - I don't mean presumptuously - of good, but at least of doing. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Minzolini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u42	Madam President, RAI, the much loved and hated RAI. I believe that the reform of the public service is one of the issues on which the Italian Parliament has been most concerned in fifty years. In the festival of subjects on which politics has shown an exaggerated attention, this theme contends the primacy to constitutional reforms, with the difference that while there have been many RAI reforms, there has been a lot of talk about constitutional reforms, but none has been made (although now, among the many projects, we risk to launch the worst of all). Why am I talking about constitutional reforms? Because the philosophy behind Renzi's RAI reform is the same that animates the reform of the Constitution and the electoral one, that is, of Italicum. The three reforms are linked by a logical thread, they are part of a single project. If we do not start from this observation we do not understand the overall plan that the current Government and its Premier pursue with tenacity. The aim is to move from a system in which there is a balance between the powers of Parliament and those of the Executive, the so-called ruling democracy, to another in which the weight of the Government, and of the party that expresses it, is far greater in the institutional balances. In fact, presidentialism without a president comes about, because there is no President directly elected by the citizens (a hypothesis that would certainly agree with me, given his high degree of legitimacy), but a President elected by the relative majority party that dominates everything and everyone thanks to the prize provided by Italicum. I say about everything and everyone, because in this case it also dominates the RAI. In the project that many authoritative observers of different orientations, such as Scalfari or Ostellino, have considered, in summary, a sort of authoritarian turning point, the reform of the RAI has an important place. By shaking the slogan "Outside the parties from RAI" we arrive, in fact, at the paradox of introducing a governance in which the government and its majority are the master. In fact, the RAI is removed from the parties to give it to one party. Just look at the numbers: on a board of seven members the government expresses two and two others the relative majority party. Then there is the RAI employee representative and, therefore, two opposition advisors. And since we are no longer a bipolar system but at least tripolar, each opposition will probably have one. Moreover, the figure of the managing director, indicated directly by the Government, replaces that of the general manager: a positive novelty, since a company that finds itself operating in a sector in continuous development needs rapid decisions, but precisely for this reason it would have been better for such an assignment to be accompanied by a plural legitimacy. The exact opposite has been done: more powers have been given to the business summit, and at the same time, instead of increasing, its degree of legitimacy has been reduced. It is, in a nutshell, only the expression of a part. In addition, with the delegations on resources, RAI funding and the restructuring of the radio and television system, the Government exonerates the Chambers of two sensitive and implications, on which, in my opinion, parliamentary confrontation would be indispensable. A contradiction only apparent because, in fact, it is the daughter of philosophy that is the basis of the Renzian reforms. Legitimate reforms, we would miss something else, but what stones in this reform, as in the others, is precisely the hypocrisy and demagogy that accompanies it. Let's start with the slogan behind it: Outside the parties of the RAI. Who does not agree with such a purpose? No one. Only that the arrival of such an ambitious programme cannot be the occupation by the Government and the majority party of public television. Because if this is the logic, then I prefer those who in recent years have defended their televisions, to those who want to own a television that on paper should belong to everyone. Let us speak the truth, without any hypocrisy. If you really want to pursue the idea of kicking politics, or rather the parties, from the RAI, the only way I know is privatisation. A simple way: privatise the RAI; the public service becomes a function that the State races among all national networks and chooses who offers the best and most reliable service for a total of years. This would revitalise an area of information, which is deeply in crisis, and policy would be limited to judging the service offered: I have tabled amendments to this effect. All the other solutions, sorry to say, they're just surrogates. Often dangerous. Because, as in the case of Renzi's reform, public television is placed in the hands of a single party or government. An operation, the latter, that for me, in principle, you could also do, if you changed the profile of RAI through a radical process of slimming: you could leave only two channels, one of information and another of deepening, and the Company should live only of canon. I mean, it would turn RAI into official government television. What is different is if, instead (as I believe), wants to keep the Company standing in the size of the hour, that is the largest Italian cultural industry, with 14 channels available. An industry that has a great weight in the orientation of the country. But such a company can only be pluralist: both in the product and in its governance. And that is precisely why he must have his reference in Parliament and not in the Government. This assessment, which is not only of the undersigned, but which the Constitutional Court itself has expressed in more than one sentence. Put in this way, however, it is clear that Renzi's reform changes the present balance, shifting the RAI from the sphere of influence of Parliament to that of the Government. Even the fruitful work done in the Commission has not changed much this approach of the reform: palliatives have been introduced, on which I will focus in the follow-up to the debate, but the axis of the measure remains the original one. It's the government that decides. Period. But then I wonder if it is worth doing all this embarrassment to remove RAI from the sphere of influence of Parliament and give it to that of the Government. I doubt it. I believe that the fundamental word for public service must be pluralism. A complex and varied reality like the Italian one can only be told by a plural public television, a task that so far RAI, between ups and downs and thousand contradictions, has carried out. Now the company must be modernised, it must be made less expensive and more meritorious, it must be more attentive to professionalism than to political membership, but surely it cannot lose its plural nature. As some have already mentioned, in the hearings held in the Commission we have also heard the views of the Director of EBU, the association which brings together all the European public services, who told us that this reform provides for a direct relationship between government and public television comparable only to that in force in Bulgaria. Well, I am especially addressing the benches of the Democratic Party: I would not want it after so much screaming and denouncing the Bulgarian edicts of the past, you gave us a Bulgarian reform. Of the many contradictions and paradoxes that characterize the action of the Democratic Party of these times, this would certainly be the most comical. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Candiani. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cucchetti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very embarrassed to speak in this debate, because I think I have to comment on the construction of a building that starts from the roof rather than from the foundations. The RAI, but also Mediaset, but also Sky, but also Telecom, but also the press operate in a regulatory framework that has settled over time and that has had in the Gasparri law the last wide-ranging arrangement. It was 2004 and I remember - at the time I worked at the "Corriere della sera" - that I criticized that measure very much. I have to say that the method that was followed at the time and the breath that that provision still had make it more interesting to me than the legging we have on the table today. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] At that time, a reference framework for media competition was sought first of all. I was not very convinced by the integrated communication system, but today I wonder what opinion we have as a Parliament and what opinion the Government has on that system, which was the framework within which everything was moving, also because since then - right or wrong that it was that framework - everything has changed. Maybe someone doesn't know that today Google in Italy collects advertising - in perfect tax avoidance regime - to an extent of about 40 percent higher than RAI. We were used to considering RAI as the second advertising operator after Mediaset: this is resoundingly overtaken by the facts, but we do not deal with this. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] We generally fill our mouths with new technologies, but they don't just mean digitalization, which is already old. They mean Netflix, YouTube, that is the possibility, today for children and tomorrow for adults, to build their own schedule. I wonder, therefore, what future the public service will have in the changing world. You see, very often we fill our mouths with the expression "public service" without knowing what it is, because when we talk about RAI and television is a bit like when we talk about the national football team: since we all did the themes at school or the year-end recital, we feel able to say our own about this matter, as well as, having played football in the parish, we all feel like technical commissioners. However, television in Europe and Italy was born by the State, so it was born of course public service, but not because there was something special in the head of the designer, but because it was so, there was only that. Public service begins to differ from the rest when the rest is born and the rest is commercial television; Today, however, the rest is all I've mentioned before and much more. So what's the point of talking about public service today? It is an interesting question and I would like to say to the Government and to those who think it is a matter of making the amendment and, of changing something (I also do this) that a more general question needs to be asked, wondering how today RAI differs from Mediaset, La7 and other generalist televisions. Is it because it deals with matters that the others do not deal with? It is not true, just check the schedules: they are perfectly overlappable. The RAI stands out from Mediaset simply because it has another type of property, a public property that imposes constraints on which colleagues have largely entertained (I have just finished listening to Mr Minzolini, whom I congratulate). However, RAI is mainly distinguished from commercial television, because it has different sources of funding from the latter and it is perhaps from these sources that the independence and residual function of the public service can be built at an age when it will fatally count less in the hours that people spend in front of a video. I therefore consider an error to be emphasized with the blue pencil the dual delegation that the draft law under consideration gives to the Government, however it is systemized: that on the sources of financing and that on the revision, on the reorganization of the regulatory framework. A company, a publisher (if Parliament is the publisher of RAI) is such if it is he who determines the policy of revenues. An entrepreneur who doesn't determine his company's revenue policy is one who doesn't matter. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] The draft law proposes to delegate certain possibilities to the Government; however, already now the Government can reduce, freeze the fee, can pay late or in advance the special conventions, already can do much, but if we pass the principle that that is a matter of the Government on which Parliament, which is a publisher, can express only an advisory opinion, it is clear that it will be a certain type of publisher. I would like to steal from my friend Gianpaolo Pansa an expression he used for subaltern journalists to indicate third-party powers: he called them "half-journalists." Well, here we will have a halved publisher, because he does not have the last word on the sources of revenue, but even more because he delegates to a component, which he would like to define as a minority on the board of directors, the definition of the regulatory framework in which he is working. I hope that on this point the Government will have a rethinking of wisdom and respect for the judgments of the Constitutional Court, which were wise sentences. I would like to remind you that after the judgment of the Court n. 225 in 1974 the RAI 3 season flourished. Someone called her - and perhaps even with sympathy, not wrongly - "Telekabul" (Telekabul). But it was also the television of Arbore, the television that introduced a great innovation in television language, in Italian culture; just as RAI 2 was, albeit to a lesser extent, when it was established. Today I wonder what the cultural breath is, beyond the phrases made. Unfortunately, having done the reporter, I have heard so many of them in this House too, saying that they do not want to say anything. Senator Minzolini mentioned a proposal that was made by President Prodi. The year 2004 was December, and President Prodi made a commitment, on the evening Corriere, to divide the RAI into two parts. On the one hand, a commercial RAI, which would have fought on the market under a gradual privatisation regime - and on the other hand, the market must be offered a company that has proved to be able to function - with the same rules as other commercial televisions and, on the other hand, a television with public ownership, free from the constraints of the centers of economic and financial power, but not slave to the constraints of politics and government. I realize that it is a little difficult to define a free identity of what we call state television, but there are examples in the world. So instead of making up weird things, just copy. The BBC model lasted over time. The model - to say another - of one of the largest British press agencies, Reuters, has guaranteed a true independence, even though it is bodies, factories, information tied hands and feet, bravely, to the history of their country. I'm going to conclude. I believe, as Senator Fornaro said in his speech, that this is the most appropriate governance for RAI, for that part of RAI; but if this House and Montecitorio say that everything must remain as it is, without looking at how the rules of competition in the media change, careless of real technological progress, if that is what is decided, that at least it is saved, I do not say a real independence (vasto program) but at least a little hypocrisy, that is the toll that vice pays to virtue. Let us then give at least a dualistic governance, with a supervisory board that is the expression of the stakeholders, which council will appoint the managing body, with a managing director and three, four or five managers responsible for the main divisions of the company. This is the governance that has made the German industry great, which has made the Swedish industry and the North industry great; this is the governance of the BBC. We say we want to create the head of the company. You will remember that, in the aftermath of the privatization of Telecom (the year was 1998, not yesterday, but more than fifteen years ago), Guido Rossi, who, as far as governance is concerned, I believe that he is a more authoritative authority than all of us (we have to recognize our limits), hurled against the ideology of chief executive officer as absolute domain of the company, but he saw useful a central role of the board of directors or - I say - of the supervisory board, with managerial management where the so-called head of the company is a primus inter pare. I realize that perhaps this is asking too much, but having a company head who is actually appointed by the Government determines that then, as Groucho Marx would say, I have agreements on which I disagree, once again with Fornaro on the one hand and Minzolini on the other. I believe that this bill must be radically reviewed. [[Applause from Senator Minzolini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u45	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u48	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I bring to the attention of the House what is happening within the prefectures and in all the municipalities of Italy, because precisely in these hours the perfect ones are summoning in their offices the local administrators (as happened yesterday in Varese with the mayors of the territory), to define in a bonaria way - let's say - the plans of transfer of the illegals, that the Government does not know where to put and that it wants to send in the municipalities, leaving the management obviously to the mayors. Yesterday I went to the prefecture and was present at the meeting with the mayors. I found in the figure of the Prefect of Varese a person certainly responsible, but in difficulty, finding himself with directives of the Government that would impose in an authoritarian way, but not authoritative, the management of asylum seekers (which can therefore not be classified as refugees, being asylum seekers of which nothing is known about the right to be recognized as refugees, until the procedures have been completed) in municipalities that are composed of a few hundred families, rather than in reality as large as the city of Varese can be. These are situations that already have a delicate socio-economic balance, which led the mayors of the League to say: "No, prefect, we do not accept any contingent imposed by the Government, especially since the Government is not giving any guarantee regarding the management of the flows, which are hidden in the press, but which continue uninterrupted and incessant every day, daily. This is to say that this does not solve the problems, distributing in the municipalities and spreading these flows of illegal immigrants on national territory. As we say and expect for a long time, the Government must intervene at international level, so that the flows at the origin are stopped. The problem, Madam President - and I shall conclude - is that the Government, of course, as yesterday also demonstrated the unnecessary presence of Minister Alfano in Brussels, does not have the authority in the international field to intervene and obtain congruent responses, which allow to block the flows where they leave, i.e. in Libya. The solution proposed is therefore to spread for the municipalities - as if the problem did not exist - the so-called asylum seekers. We say no, together with all our fellow citizens, because there can be no less attention to Italian citizens and greater attention to foreigners, who come and go over our elderly, our young people or our disabled people than to the rights and attention of the State. [[Applause from Senator Divine.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u51	Mr Albano (PD). Madam President, in line with what is happening in the House of Deputies, at the end of the sitting many of us (and I hope many of us) will speak on the issue of the right of women in this country to use the so-called "women's option" to retire, maturing their rights by 31 December 2015. It's a long-standing situation. There is an INPS circular which, in our opinion contra legem, has decided that not to mature the right, but to effectively retire should be dealt with by 31 December 2015, also taking into account the one-year window for private sector workers and 18 months for public sector workers. Before reading, as we are doing both in the House and in the Senate, the communications from the INPS committees of different Provinces and Regions that have spoken about this, I would like to recall the Act of the Senate 149, whose process ended with a contemporary resolution of the House and the Senate, regarding this problem. I would refer to this, which commits the Government to solicit the INPS, also in order to avoid disputes already initiated and future, to revise point 7.2 of Circular No 35 of 2012, concerning the liquidation of pension treatment for female workers under experimental arrangements. For these workers, the mobile window for pension treatment and life expectancy should not apply, but the simple maturity of the personal and contribution requirements remains valid by 31 December 2015, as clearly defined by law. I would just like to say that there is a great deal of litigation going on and that there is the Women's Option Committee that has promoted a class action. By applying the current legislation, with this option, women agree to retire with the full contributory calculation: this means that we will have a dry savings from the administration. The INPS press release, of which I am preparing to read, shows that there is a very little institutional change between the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance on the opinion to be given for the resolution of a problem such as this. What I am getting ready to read is therefore the statement of the provincial committee of the INPS of Genoa, the capital of the Region from which I come. The INPS Provincial Committee of Genoa in the meeting, regularly convened, of 26 March 2015 discussed the situation of law n. 243 of 2004, article 1, paragraph 9, in the field of experimental regime for workers. The provincial committee INPS of Genoa, since the law itself gives the possibility of access to the retirement pension with the contribution system having the following characteristics: contributory seniority equal to or greater than 35 years, 57 years of age for employees, 58 years of age for self-employed workers; check that the so-called law Fornero has done without this system, leaving the previous rules and that the INPS with circulars nos. 35 and 37 of 2012 interpreted in a restrictive sense the application of that law... PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite you to synthesize the statement, Senator Albano. The time available to you has already expired. Mr Albano (PD). In conclusion, the press release raises an intervention by the Ministry of Labour for a timely resolution of the issues related to the Female Option and hopes that the INPS will review the indications provided, keeping the date of maturity of the right as of December 31, 2015, recognizing to thousands of workers the fullness of their right and their dignity. Madam President, I hope that this long-standing issue will be resolved, partly because 31 December 2015 will soon arrive and a number of pension applications already submitted, even if they are accepted with reservation, lie at the INPS. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u54	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, a tree that falls rather than a forest that grows is making more noise in the series. A great deal has been said about migrants in recent days, and this has always been discussed with the usual emerging, catastrophic ways. I would like to retort with one of the many examples of good management of immigrants that is done in Mira, a municipality - happens to be governed by the 5 Star Movement where, as soon as they settled, the municipal administrators have posed the problem of managing the issue in a structural and non-emergency way: they spoke with the realities of the territory, with the cooperatives that dealt with the problem, with a cooperative owned by the Municipality. This is how it is handled in a splendid way: immigrants are treated as human persons as they are, are helped and help in turn. Immigrants help local citizens, in the elderly, in the patronage, in the festivities, with a whole series of services that make available: therefore, there is a mutual exchange. That's to say that, if you want, things can be done well. Even after the tornado, the very violent storm of last week, all immigrants spontaneously, without anyone asking for anything from them, got in line and helped in the first aid work, which they continue to do. Here in Italy we want to continue to talk about emergency, first of all because it is a technique of distraction (it speaks of migrants as if they were the problem, when they are the effect, not the cause; they are the symptom and not the disease) and then because politics does not want to solve the problem. He does not want because he earns much more with the emergency: he earns much more to manage situations in an improvised way, entrusting the work to friends, with the excuse of the emergency. In Italy we would then need structures that manage even internal emergencies: we are a very fragile territory, where often, unfortunately, earthquakes, floods, calamitous situations occur. Each municipality should have management plans and, at happy times - which are the majority, fortunately - we could also employ them to manage immigrants. You want to talk about the immigrant as if it were the cause, when it is the result. We all know what the causes are, but no one wants to talk about them enough: the causes are neo-colonialist policies that we, of course, approach with our behaviors. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The result is obviously that of a war between the poor, which is what politics wants because by making the poor quarrel the rich govern better: it is very simple, it is a trivial thing. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We keep talking about emergency. But what emergency? I was a teenager when any demographic text predicted this phenomenon to happen on time, and that we know very well will continue in the coming years. Anyone who uses the word "emergency" from now on is either ignorant or in bad faith: it is simply the result of the current situation that has been determined over the decades. I would like to say one last thing to everyone who waves the flag of "Go home," "Go home," "Go home," "Everyone at home." In Italy we eat well, even at often decent prices, and we do not consider that food prices are decent (even if the large organized distribution multiply them on average by 600 percent) because we have 400,000 agricultural workers under almost slavery. I don't say that, but the trade unions. And guess who these 400,000 farm workers are in almost slavery? Those people to whom we often say "stay at home." Yet, part of our well - being also depends on them. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u57	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Thank you, Madam President. The Stava massacre was not one of the many natural disasters that occur in our territory (...). It was rather a deadly sum of superficiality, greed and omission of controls (...). Behind it was not the hand of fate or that of stepmother nature or the fury of the elements. The Stava disaster was due exclusively to serious human behavior (...). Thirty years after that catastrophe (...) pain and anger have not yet endured. It is with these words that the President of the Republic Sergio Mattarella, from the columns of the daily newspaper "L'Adige", last Sunday wanted to remember the thirtieth anniversary of one of the most painful pages of our recent history. In Stava, Trentino, 268 people died on July 19, 1985. Also this year the names of the victims were marked one by one during the Way of the Cross that crossed the territories hit by the massacre. 89 men, 120 women, 31 boys who had not yet reached their age, 28 children under the age of ten, died. Remembering Stava is not a mere exercise of memory, but rather must be a constant warning regarding the need to put in the field of policies of environmental protection, respect for nature and aimed at striking those who, out of greed, do not. This year the massacre was commemorated with the image of a geranium born from a fissure of the landslide, to want to symbolize the life born of pain, the will to rebuild and to believe in the future. I therefore express my closeness to all the victims' families and solidarity with the affected communities. But I would also like to point out, with gratitude, the rigorous work of the Stava Foundation 1985 which, in all these years, has carried out a passionate and authoritative action on the ground of both the preservation of memory and awareness, with numerous initiatives of study and research, also at international level, so that our country could equip itself with a regulatory plan worthy of a community that knows how to treasure its mistakes, even the most tragic ones. I believe, in fact, that the introduction of important rules, such as the one on environmental crimes that this Parliament has recently approved, is also due to the commitment made by the Stava Foundation 1985 and other similar institutions and realities, which have been able to take full advantage of the words of Primo Levi, recorded in one of the places where the tragedy is remembered: If understanding is impossible, knowing is necessary, because what has happened can return, consciences can be seduced and obscured again: our own too. Today Stava has been completely rebuilt. Special thanks go to those who made this happen, because rebuilding means returning to life. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, I believe that that pain will never pass, as will the memory of that night that is still alive in my memory as in that of all the 30s. Let us make sure that it has not been in vain, that even from the most tragic mistakes one can learn to go on, that from death comes new life, that from a lump of that landslide can continue to be born other geraniums.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u60	PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, four Italian citizens employed by Bonatti were kidnapped in Libya. It would be my job, like anyone in this House, to ask for urgent information from Minister Gentiloni, who has actually already expressed himself, because of his modest possibilities, saying to the press: It is difficult to speculate who might have kidnapped our fellow citizens. Then perhaps it would be more appropriate to invite, instead of Minister Gentiloni, the CEO of ENI Descalzi, because he certainly knows much more and would be able to answer our questions, which I want to summarize here. Why is ENI the only big multinational to be able to resist what is happening in Libya and to be able to maintain its activities (as much as most offshore, at sea and little on land) still active? And why, as we read in the press, the four Italian workers, in spite of all the safety procedures, that both Bonatti and ENI (for which Bonatti works) should have maintained, traveled cheerfully in a van, having just returned from Italy and transiting from Tunisia, along the coastal road that led to the installations of ENI on the Libyan coast? It would be advisable, perhaps, to have answers from those who today manage properly communication and relations with the factions in struggle that, more or less legitimately, contend with the honor and the burden of saying themselves Libyan Government. In fact, the ENI can continue to operate because it has long-term relations with those who actually govern the region, and I am talking about the Libyan Central Bank and also - and it is no small thing - the powerful Libyan state company that deals with oil and gas. I come to the point and finish. In my opinion, it would be appropriate for society, which is still with Italian state participation, that the proceeds of the extractions made by ENI in Libya, which are paid to the Libyan Central Bank as real royalty, be used, as is done in all civil countries, for operations to restore the territories devastated by mining activities. In this case, however, the Libyan Central Bank distributes them among the factions in struggle to keep them good. Therefore, I would ask Minister Gentiloni, if he could answer, and the administrator Descalzi, if it is appropriate to continue to give hundreds of thousands of dollars to the Libyan Central Bank that turns them to all the factions in struggle, including the Islamic State. What happens is that these factions immediately turn that money into arms supplies and pay for mercenaries who probably kidnapped our four Italian citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u63	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to remind two of our ministers of what is happening on the ground. I tell you about a very remote area, the Vallarsa, which develops east of Rovereto towards Veneto, relatively quiet in the middle of the mountains, but where the social alarm is very high. In fact, being such a peripheral area, it also lends itself to relatively quiet movements for those who operate them. There has been a series of burglaries (only two this night) in a neighbouring municipality and the tension in the valley is very high. The various requests are practically vain: the stations of the Carabinieri are equipped with their own staff and the nearest police station is that of Rovereto. From the beginning to the end the valley extends for about thirty kilometers, with a whole mountain road, so it takes more than an hour and a half to walk them. We can understand that distracting even one patrol to do a simple road inspection can become costly. The citizens of that territory, however, have the right, like all Italian citizens, to have a minimum of guarantee and security. I ask the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the whole Alfano to give an answer to these people as well. The police forces clearly carry out the orders, but I would like to quote, without even excessive controversy, the last facts of Casale San Nicola, in which the police even used to gangel mothers and fathers of family who were there to protest - right or wrong, in a democratic country you can protest - thinking about the future of their children. We would like the police and the carabinieri to be assigned to functions a little more relevant to their role, that are used for and not against the citizens. Some might also object that Trentino is a felix area, a happy area, with a crime rate, compared to other areas of the country, relatively low; well, we want it to stay low, as low as possible. We would like to have ownership in order to receive attention and the possibility of having the same Forces of order that are used, sometimes even to a great extent, in other parts of the country: let's use them to guarantee some security to the citizens. I speak, in this case, on behalf of Vallarsa, one of the most scattered valleys in Trentino, which is suffering from angeries every day. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u66	PEPE (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, even in the last few days dozens of fires of waste and landfills continue to poison the air and land of the whole of Campania with their toxic fumes, loaded with dioxins, furans and god only knows what else, which will leave organic pollutants and poisons on the urban and agricultural soils that will easily, already with the first rains, poison the aquifers and, through the food chain, will place themselves in the blood of too many Italians destined, as well as many of our loved ones, to become sick with cancer. The situation is proven by the many newspaper articles. On IlMattino.it of July 18, 2015 we read: "Land of fires, in flames 4 landfills out of 5: revolt of the clans against the reclamations". It is a title, this, which well explains the frightening situation that Campania faces in the last few days. The site laterradeifuochi.it, on 19 July, reported that the competent authorities declared that the situation was under control. But under whose control? How many men and what and how many resources are currently being used to deal with the Campania crisis is not given knowledge and yet, at the moment, with respect to the emergency, the State seems to be fugitive in the land of fires, at every administrative and political level. What measures have been taken in relation to the emergence of toxic fires and how is it really to be dealt with, apart from the easy proclamations, is not known, but we are certain of one thing: the phenomenon is taking on a national dimension. More and more dense black smoke is also seen in other parts of Italy and, therefore, we understand that the problem is much wider. Of another thing, then, we are certain: the State has a duty to manifest itself and take away control of the situation from those forces, those people, those entities that are using this terrible emergency for their purposes; those entities that, beyond the proclamations, seem to have for real the situation under control. The situation is serious, more serious than ever. The emergency is and is an environmental, health and criminal emergency. [[Applause from Senators Candiani and Cotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u67	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-487.ana.u68	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 22 July, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.59.
