ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders approved by a majority changes to the current timetable and the new timetable until 19 March. In relation to the state of play at the Justice Commission, the draft law on corruption will be examined in the week from 17 to 19 March. With a view to concluding today's sitting the discussion of the draft law on the trafficking of organs intended for transplantation, the examination of the ratification of the Hague Convention on the protection of minors and the draft law on the adoption of minors by foster families, already planned for next week, was anticipated at the afternoon session. In the week from 10 to 12 March, in addition to the follow-up to the unfinished arguments, the discussion of the draft law on the short divorce and on the identification of members of the Forces of Order, made by the Mixed Group pursuant to article 53, paragraph 3, of the Regulation, remains confirmed. The afternoon session on Thursday 12 March will take place with the Minister for Education, University and Research. The schedule of the week from 17 to 19 March provides, in addition to the possible follow-up of the unfinished topics and the discussion of the bill on corruption, the examination of the decree-law of reform of the popular banks, where approved by the Chamber of Deputies. On Thursday 19 March, at 3 p.m., Parliament is convened in a joint sitting for the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court. Finally, the Conference of Leaders envisaged that the timetable should be supplemented with an information from the Minister of the Interior on the recent devastation caused in Rome by a group of Dutch fans and on the management of safety at sporting events. This information will take place at 4 p.m. tomorrow afternoon. The inspection union will follow, as already planned.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar and the new schedule of proceedings until March 19: [[Wednesday 4 March pom. h. 16,30-20 - Follow-up to draft law n. 922 - Trafficking organs intended for transplantation - Drawing of law n. 1552 and connected - Ratifica convention Aja protection minor (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1209 - Adoption of minor by foster families Thursday 5 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 5 March pom. h. 16 - Information from the Minister for the Interior on the recent devastation caused in Rome by a group of Dutch fans and on the management of safety at sporting events - Questions and questions]] Amendments to draft law no. 1552 and connected (Ratification of the Aja Convention for Minor Protection) and 1209 (Adoption of Minor by foster families) must be presented by 7 p.m. on Wednesday 4 March. [[Tuesday, March 10 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Following arguments not concluded - Drawing of law n. 1504 and related - Short divorce (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 803 - Identification belonging to Forces of order (made precisely by the Mixed Group pursuant to article 53, paragraph 3, of the Regulation) Wednesday 11 " ant. h. 9,30-13 Wednesday " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 12 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday, March 12 pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister for Education, Universities and Research]] Amendments to bill No 1504 and related (short divorce) should be tabled by 5 p.m. on Thursday 5 March. The deadline for tabling amendments to bill No 803 (identification belonging to the Forces of Order) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. [[Tuesday, March 17 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Eventually followed unconcluded arguments - Drawing of law n. 19 and related - Rules in the matter of corruption - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 3, reform of popular banks (Ove approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (It falls on 25 March) Wednesday 18 " ant. h. 9,30-13 Wednesday " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 19 " ant. h. 9,30-14]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 19 and related rules on corruption will be set in relation to the Commission's work. The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law n.... (Decree-Law n. 3, reform of popular banks) will be set in relation to the timing of transmission by the Chamber of Deputies. Parliament is convened at 3 p.m. on Thursday 19 March for the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court. Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 3 - Reform of popular banks) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, including: PD 1 h. 12' FI-PdL XVII 47' M5S 36' AP (NCD-UDC) 36' Mixed 32' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 27' LN-Aut 26' GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI) 26' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u8	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, as we said at the Conference of the Leaders, we are asking that the timetable be changed to include the draft anti-corruption law next week. In fact, it is neither conceivable nor possible that such an important issue is continually postponed because the Government cannot find a balance on the false in the budget or perhaps cannot find it the parts that make up this majority or those that are now in opposition, but that on the electoral law were majority in this continuous oxymoron. It is not possible to continue like this. The anti-corruption bill must come to the House and we will decide what will happen here. Members of Parliament must decide this; we cannot continue in this way, because it is absolutely unbecoming for the role of this Senate. As long as this Senate continues to exist, we must take responsibility for giving answers to the country and it is not possible to continue to postpone for the umpteenth time. We therefore ask you to anticipate this discussion to the next week, regardless of the state of work in the Commission; we will decide here on the critical points: if there is to be discussion of the problems of fake in the budget, the House will decide without waiting any longer for the balance of this majority going and coming according to the things to be done. With regard to Mr Alfano, who, as we have heard, will come to this House tomorrow, it is good that this should happen, but let us reiterate what has already been said, namely that the behaviour of the Minister, who did not appear yesterday, was shameful. It is a shame that we must all blame Minister Alfano and the Government. So our request is to bring the anti-corruption bill to the House next week. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u11	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the Conference of Leaders never ceases to amaze us because in fact we in that case asked, through his person, to have once again Minister Alfano here in the Chamber and we learn with satisfaction that the Minister wants to debunk this rabbit myth that is chasing him, presenting himself tomorrow at 4 p.m. We appreciate that. However, we want to understand the time available to the Groups, because if the Minister comes, as requested by his Parent Company, to tell us about the universal sloppiness of security and we will have five minutes, as defined above, it would be further a mockery of the Senate. Moreover, this morning we agreed with what Senator Cioffi has just said and we do not say that anticipating the anti-corruption bill puts in difficulty our productive capacity or other sectors of the country, because we ask for something very simple: we ask on this occasion, also taking note of a situation that is happening and that throws further negative light on the policy or what goes around it, we immediately come to debate in the Senate also on the contents that have not yet been completed - or should not have been completed - in the Commission. In fact, while it is true that the draft law is important, it is equally important to debate the provisions that are intended to be incorporated into it. And no one is going to introduce measures to block the economy. On the contrary, we must quickly give answers that give the certainty that politics is light years away from environments of corruption. So we agree to anticipate the debate on this measure. Another issue that puzzled us in the debate at the Conference of the Leaders was the need for the People's Area to put aside an amendment, which today will be part of the discussion on organ trafficking, and even to postpone the completion of this discipline which we have been waiting to see concluded in this House for a long time. We have appreciated your position, Mr President, because everything can be said, but not that there has been no time to deepen this issue. If there are problems within the majority, solve them before arriving in the Chamber, before defining the timetable, and then do not submit us to the pantomime of the President of the Council of Ministers who goes on television to say that it is the oppositions that slow down the work of the House! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Let us remember that the examination of the bill on corruption is continually slowed down in the Commission by the same majority, waiting for the Government to table amendments which are not known, but which are read in the newspapers. This is what can't happen! So let us come quickly to this House and debate here, in the appropriate and constitutionally defined forum for what the legislative procedure should be.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u12	Senator Candiani, so yours is a proposal to change the calendar? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are calling for an anticipation of the debate on the anti-corruption bill next week, and on this point we share the position of the 5 Star Movement.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u13	As far as the information of the Minister of the Interior is concerned - since I have had this task - I know that his presence is embedded among other commitments. However, I can give seven minutes to each group in order to intervene, with the usual discretion and with the wide willingness of the Minister, already confirmed, to shorten, if necessary, his initial extension to give space to the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u16	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we have received the announcement that the Minister for the Interior will finally come tomorrow at 4 p.m. The date and time seem pretty sought after and I don't think I have to comment on them differently. As you know, Mr President, I proposed that the Minister should come tomorrow morning. Of course, there should not be five minutes, but there should be more time available. With regard to tomorrow's day and the timetable as a whole, Mr President, I would like to make one point. At tomorrow's afternoon sitting, your proposal on the agenda provides for the ratification of the Hague Convention on the Protection of Children and the draft law on the adoption of minors by foster families (which was scheduled for next week). The deadline for tabling amendments expired tomorrow at 5 p.m. and was anticipated. Clearly, this is a problem because the communication from the Conference of Leaders has just arrived and, however, the timetable is about to be voted on now. So I propose that the deadline be set tomorrow at 5:00 p.m. And I also propose that, on tomorrow's day, precisely because at this point the ratification of the Convention and the draft law on the adoption of minors should be put to the attention of the House and the motion 1-00378 which I had already mentioned at the Conference of the Leaders last week concerning the socio-economic crisis in the region of Sardinia should be included in the timetable. The urgency, Mr President, is due to the fact that a number of commitments, which had even been made in the last Stability Act, have not been fulfilled. The motion is first signed by Senator Uras, but it is transversal. I think that, since we only incardinate those two measures, we can also deal with the motion. As for next week, Mr President, the story of the anti-corruption bill is becoming a telenovela, as happened with environmental crimes, which, fortunately, today, after a year, we have approved. The government can very well table its amendments in this House too, so I believe that if we set the deal for next week we would get the result that the Commission and the Government would be able to complete their work in time. These are therefore the proposed modifications that we are moving forward: the inclusion tomorrow of the motion on the socio-economic crisis in Sardinia and the advance to the next week of the anti-corruption bill.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u17	Senator De Petris, if there are no comments to the contrary, I would be prepared to reinstate the old deadline for tabling amendments at 5 p.m. tomorrow. Of course, this will mean that tomorrow they will incardinate and hold discussions on both subjects on the agenda. This, it seems to me, can be done. If there are no comments, this remains the case.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u20	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, before I make my speech, I would like to know: will the timetable for the anti-corruption bill take place when the Commission has completed its work or not? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Very well, then, Mr President, I believe that I must make the House, as well as you, of what is happening. As you know, the anti-corruption measure was first scheduled in the Chamber between March and April 2014. The single text was drawn up by Senator D'Ascola and the deadline for amendments was set, but when they were about to be voted on, at the Conference of the Leaders, the Government announced a legislative initiative. This required the Presidency of the Commission, under the Rules of Procedure, to suspend its work, pending the submission of this legislative initiative. Immediately after the summer, when the time was ripe, however, having taken place on 29 August 2014 a Council of Ministers, in which an initiative of the Government on the point was announced, considered itself to be waiting for this initiative, for fairness towards the Executive. The measure, Mr President, arrived in early December 2014 and within it there were, in addition to the issues of corruption and prevention measures, also those concerning the Agency for Confiscated Goods. This essentially required the presidency of the Senate to assign it to the 1st and 2nd Commissions jointly. A part of the bill, however, was the subject of the unified D'Ascola text of bill No 19 and related pending before the 2nd Commission. It was therefore established, in a joint Bureau of Commissions 1a and 2a, that the latter would continue to deal with the part specifically relating to corruption, leaving essentially the rest of the content intact to the Joint Commissions. This, of course, had the sole purpose of speeding up the introduction of anti-corruption legislation as much as possible. In January of this year, if I remember correctly on 7th, the Government tabled amendments, including those relating to false social communications. These amendments have been subject to a sub-amendment phase, which has come to an end. So, basically, we could finally proceed to the vote on the amendments. The daily press informed us that the Government intended to table another amendment, different from the one presented on 7 January 2014, that is, just under a month earlier, in the matter of false social communications. It is an initiative that was confirmed in the Commission by the representative of the Government. All the majority and opposition groups in the Commission have formally asked the Government to submit the amendment to the Commission and not to the House, as was read in the daily press and as was partly acknowledged by the Government's representative in the Commission. In the light of such an attitude, which some groups have considered provocative, not particularly correct and not particularly respectful of Parliament, the vote on the amendments has, however, begun. The debate and the votes on the amendments do not shine particularly fast, but they certainly shine for the very detailed examination that is given to each amendment by some opposition group. To date, Mr President, just to be clear, I do not believe that we have voted more than ten or twelve sub-amendments; there are some 250 of them missing and some of them are not indifferent to technical problems. I represent them, Mr President, so that the House can have a direct influence on the basis of what is really happening in the Commission and which is reflected in the relevant Reports and, last but not least, so that you can have the confidence to take your decisions on the regulation of work. So, Mr President, I would like to say that if we were to imagine a calenderisation without the formula 'Ove' concluded by the Commission, it could pave the way for a presentation in the Chamber without a rapporteur, and consequently, because of the precedent of the 12th legislative term in the field of radio and television broadcasting, we could open up here the text of the vote in order to decide on what text of the various draft laws which have been presented, excluding the rapporteur's unified text, and to open the amendment phase here in the Chamber. Having said all this, Mr President, as President of the Commission, I would like to take up a further problem which has arisen today in the relations between the Government and Parliament. You know better than I that the Constitutional Court has repeatedly stated the principle of loyal cooperation between institutions of the State. Mr President, we cannot tolerate the fact that an amendment so strongly desired in the Commission by all the majority and opposition members of the Commission, so strongly awaited in the Commission and that, because of its failure to present it is objectively delaying the work, is not being handed over to the Commission and is being conveyed to the daily press. Mr President, it is not possible for the Justice Commission to learn of an amendment by the Government in the matter of false social communications by reading this text indiscretions in the press, that is to say, that the person who has had it in the press was kindly granted it by the journalist who, having it in his possession, gave it to him. It is not a problem that concerns the President of the Commission Justice, because this kind of attitude affects not only the Commission Justice, but the entire image of the Senate of the Republic. It is for this reason, Mr President, that I should like to refer you to the problem, asking you to take all the initiatives you feel you should take to protect the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u21	If I understand correctly, yours is a proposal to amend the timetable, in the sense of including in the timetable, in relation to the examination of the draft law on anti-corruption, the formula: "where not concluded by the Commission." Is that the point of your speech?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u22	No, Mr President, I would never have allowed myself to speak by asking for a change in the timetable because, if there is such a request, it is up to the Parent Company, Mr Romani, to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u23	Anyone can do it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u24	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I know perfectly well what the Rules of Procedure lay down, but I also know perfectly well what respect I must bring to my Parent Company. I have only represented the situation exactly as it is in the Commission so that, in addition to timetables, it is possible to avoid risks such as subsequent referrals, or the arrival of draft legislation in the Chamber without the rapporteur. I merely represent the situation and if there is a request, Mr President, that I make it to you to take initiatives to protect the Senate of the Republic which, until proven otherwise, is still in place.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u25	I am sure that, as President of the Commission, you will do everything in your power to move forward, within the time limits set by the House and the timetable, and those that will be decided, to examine this measure, since it has represented us with the much work that the Commission still has to do. I'm sure of that. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I also represented the much work done unnecessarily. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right. We have followed the Commission's work closely.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u28	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, it seems to me that the things that the President of the Commission has said are important and have described the path that this measure has taken. Today, in fact, at the Conference of Leaders, the question has arisen whether to add the phrase: "Where concluded by the Commission" However, in view of the reality that the President of the Commission has put before us, it seems to me that at this point the request is absolutely legitimate. This does not mean at all, as some people will be able to say after my speech, that we want to waste time, but it seems to me fundamental and important - today at the conference of the leaders of the groups I had the opportunity to say it, to reaffirm it and to re-underline it - that a measure of this complexity should carry out its entire journey in the Commission. I therefore believe - and I also say this to the majority - that the addition, as you have understood, is correct, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u31	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I too would like to relate to the concerns expressed by my fellow Members, but above all to ask the Government a question. It is these days the presence in the Chamber and among the benches of the Government of Minister Giannini, which facilitates us in understanding this passage. I am referring to the government's decision to turn a decree-law into a bill (the one on the so-called good school), according to what the Premier said to listen to the invitations of the Presidency of the Republic and the Presidency of the Senate, or at least of the Presidents of the different branches of Parliament, to be in greater and better harmony with Parliament on the procedural process of the laws. In this sense, why reappear this phrase? Why, all of a sudden, in an area which is not school, but justice, is there a need again to evoke the fact that a measure which has not been concluded in the Commission and, therefore, without rapporteur can come to this House? Understanding this would help us to understand how better to work with the Government for a good resolution, in certain times and without obstruction, of the measures proposed by the Government itself. PRESIDENT. - The debate is There is no proposal to change the timetable, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u32	We greet the students, students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Education Galileo Galilei in Monopoli, in the province of Bari, who follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u33	I put to the vote the proposed modification of the calendar that plans to anticipate to the next week the examination of the bill anticorruption, advanced from Senators Cioffi and Candiani. It's not approved. CIOFFI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. [[Ironic applause from Senators Castaldi and Blundo.]] I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the inclusion of the motion for a resolution on the socio-economic crisis in the region of Sardinia, tabled by Senator De Petris. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the inclusion of the engraving "Ove" concluded by the Commission with regard to the calendarization of the anti-corruption bill for the week from 17 to 19 March, made by Senator Romani Paolo. It's not approved. It is clear to me that there is no need for counterproof.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u36	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to point out that, during the counter-test of the vote on the inclusion of the motion on the Sardinian region, the voting mechanism of my position did not work. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We take note of that, Senator Floris.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u37	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 922. I would remind you that the general debate and the replies of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government took place in the afternoon sitting. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments thereto, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u38	Mr President, the withdrawal of organs is one of the forms of exploitation typical of trafficking in human beings and the reduction in slavery. Amendment 1,100 has been prepared to adapt the amendments to those already introduced in Articles 600 ('Reduction into slavery') and 601 ('Treatment of persons') of the penal code by Legislative Decree No 24 of 2014, which transposes the EU Directive for the prevention and repression of trafficking in human beings. In Article 1, in line with the sanction provided for in Articles 600 and 601 of the Criminal Code, we propose that the minimum limit of imprisonment be increased to five years. In recent years there has been a worldwide increase in organ trafficking and tourism for transplant purposes. One of the most obvious examples is the unscrupulous exploitation of global economic and social disparities. For this reason, we consider it important that, at the end of the first paragraph, an explicit reference is inserted to the fact that the consent of the victim is irrelevant to the criminal offence and, therefore, Article 50 of the Criminal Code does not apply. We also propose, in line with the amendments already introduced to Articles 600 and 601, that a new paragraph be inserted after the first subparagraph, which introduces a stricter sentence of imprisonment, from 6 to 15 years, instead of 5 to 12, where the offence has been committed against a particularly vulnerable victim, a concept already introduced in the novel article 601 (treatment of persons) - meaning by a position of vulnerability a situation in which the person in question has no effective and acceptable choice but to give in to the abuse of which he is victim - or has endangered the victim's life intentionally or by serious misconduct or has been committed by serious violence or has caused particularly serious injury to the victim. All this, of course, without prejudice to the common aggravating circumstances already provided for in Article 61 of the Criminal Code. It is important that the bill we are debating today reflects our country's obligations and that it is harmonised with what is foreseen for similar crimes. We also keep in mind that by 6 April 2016 the European Commission will present a report on the impact of measures to prevent trafficking in human beings, in relation to national legislation sanctioning the use of goods and services that are exploited in connection with trafficking. Organ trafficking falls into this category. [[Applause from Senator Granaiola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u39	Mr President, colleagues and fellow senators, Amendment 1,103, signed by Senator Giovanardi and myself, has a very banal content, except for the way in which it intends to sanction conduct which in the order is already considered contra legem. The same representative of the Government this morning reminded us of the acts transposing Community directives specifically related to the prohibition of the marketing of tissues and cells of people living. You know how our whole system is based on criteria of gratuitousness and solidarity with regard to the supply of elements of human origin for therapeutic purposes. Our entire order structure is based on that good practice that in the beginning has been of the volunteers of the blood that, with commendable commitment, continue to allow daily in our country a significant supply of this primary component for the care of many people. On that experience the donation of organs and, even more generally regarding the category of cells and tissues from living people, we can only recognize that in our system it is not allowed to commercialize, use and supply for profitable purposes. Our concern stems from the fact that there is no sanction in this regard and that the European directive to which Mr Ferri referred refers refers back to the Member States the task of defining sanctions. So tell us how the government intends to make this ban effective, so that it does not resolve itself in a Manzoni cries easily eludible when, even with the evolution of science, the demand for cells and tissues grows. May the Government tell us whether it is perhaps appropriate - as we support in our amendment - for these elements of human origin to be treated, as in the case of blood, by non-profitable institutions, thus avoiding that bio-banks are born that, with profitable purposes, manage this very delicate area of our social health service. I would like to point out that, when it is determined for commercial purposes, supply obviously concerns poor people in poor countries, of which we must first take account and whose exploitation we should all be concerned, also because in the weakness of these people stands out the even more specific one of women who are induced by the need to sell part of themselves. For these reasons, we expect the Government to give careful consideration to Amendment 1,103, which is also ready to consider, in our turn, the possibility of the matter being resolved and dealt with properly and thoroughly elsewhere, but with the common determination to do so and not to leave this provision so imperfect today. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u40	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u41	I am of course in favour of Amendment No 1,300 and I am also in favour of the inclusion of the agenda G1,100. The opinion is opposed to Amendment No 1,103 because it deals with a matter which is not related to the draft law under consideration. I would just like to point out that the Council of Europe Convention mentioned in July 2004 calls for criminal sanctions exclusively in relation to all trafficking of organs or parts of organs and does not refer to cells and tissues of human origin. This last matter is expressly regulated by a recent legislative decree, No. 85 of 30 May 2012, whose title in the first part is extremely clear because it speaks of amendments and additions to Legislative Decree No. 16 of 25 January 2010 implementing two directives of the European Community of 2006. These Directives implement a 2004 Directive on technical requirements for the donation, procurement and control of human tissues and cells. The title goes on to state clearly that this is a different subject. I am therefore opposed to this because of the extraneous nature of the matter and, in any case, because of its content. If there are other proposals, we will consider them, but that is the opinion at the moment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u42	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion, pending a look at the text of the agenda G1.103.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u43	So on Amendment No 1,103 is there a possibility of a change in the agenda? Senator Sacconi, tell the presidency as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u44	Mr President, I have read the agenda G1.103: The Senate commits the Government to deepen the ways in which to make effective, even with appropriate sanctions, the current prohibition of the marketing of cells and tissues of living people, allowing the acquisition through non-profitable institutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u45	In the meantime, I hope that the Presidency has also had the text to distribute it to the Groups, given the importance of the matter. Is the rapporteur now in a position to give his opinion on this text, in the hope that it will have a copy of it? CASSON, Rapporteur. Mr President, in view of the delicacy of the matter, I would like to be able to examine the written text. In the meantime, we could proceed to the vote on the other amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Perhaps it is better to suspend the sitting for a few minutes, given the delicacy of the matter, in order to distribute the text of the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u48	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). In adjuvandum, I recall that the Council of Europe has nothing to do with this. The Directive is of the European Parliament and of the European Council and specifically concerns the donation, procurement, control and processing of human tissues and cells and Article 27 requires Member States to determine the penalties relating to them and to be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. So we are talking about a European directive and not about the European Council, which is something else and has no legislative and legislative relevance in this area.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u49	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,300. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u52	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I will not commit the House for more than three minutes to using my explanation of vote on this amendment. I'm sorry President Grasso isn't here, but he'll be reading the shorthand report. I would like to point out that as President of the Commission, Justice (the members of the Commission themselves will be able to acknowledge this) I have largely cooperated, in terms of the wording of the various cases, in the drafting of the text under consideration in this House. Speaking with the rapporteur, I shared the need to add the word 'treated' to the case in the light of how it came out of the Commission. I say this because in the face of President Grasso's last request, or rather of his statement that it is certain that I will do everything to bring the anti-corruption bill to the House for the date on which it was scheduled, I would like to tell him that he must have no fear of this, even though I have neither the possibility of quoting the times nor the possibility of singing beyond measure. And if my present neutrality is not enough, I will try to be as neutral as he is in presiding over the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u53	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 1,300, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,100 has been changed to agenda G1,100 which, having been accepted by the Government, will not be put to the vote. Amendments 1,101 and 1,102 have been withdrawn. Senator Sacconi has transformed amendment 1,103 into the agenda for which he has read. Before passing his examination, waiting for all senators to see it, I briefly suspend the session. (The sitting was suspended at 5.23 p.m. and resumed at 5.32 p.m.) The session is resumed. We need to know the rapporteur's opinion on the agenda, G1.103, which has been distributed and which I would like to read: The Senate, in the examination of draft law No 922, commits the Government to deepen the ways in which to make effective, even with appropriate sanctions, the current prohibition of the marketing of cells and tissues of living people, allowing the acquisition through non-profit institutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u56	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-MovX). Mr President, as the first signatory to this draft law, I wanted to make it clear that your intention is far from complete. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX, PD and M5S Groups]] that to worry about the trade in cells, tissues and organs. If some senators had been present this morning at my intervention in general discussion, they would have understood that I almost wanted to dedicate this bill to the memory of a child who was found dead under a bridge and to whom were removed, from three shady individuals, perhaps even doctors, the two kidneys and left there to die like an animal. Our bill is what you want to prevent. Now, I must be clear in this context what it means to sanction the current ban on the marketing of cells and tissues of living people by allowing them to be acquired through non-profit institutions. I thanked and again publicly thanked the Justice Commission, and especially President Palma who made me understand how little I know about civil code and criminal code, and he helped me in this, perhaps because he understood my desire to make a bill that is a gift to people killed simply to make organ trade. Therefore, the concept of "trade" was aimed at protecting the poorest of our society: those who are defenceless, no one defends them. On this agenda, on the other hand, we are talking about a subject which concerns our health, and I can tell you this, Senator Sacconi, that I know a little bit about it. If this logic were to pass, we could neither sell nor acquire any bloodbag with this system. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX, PD, M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups]] Blood bags, in fact, are not provided by non-profit associations. Stem cells we buy and sell. There is a phase of donation and it is right that there is. The citizen decides to make a gesture for which he wants nothing in return: it is one of the greatest gestures of altruism, because giving means doing one thing without thinking of having any counterpart. But pharmaceutical companies, our blood banks, our cordon banks and our stem cell banks have costs. And unfortunately, since we have established balance of the budget as the first axiom of our vision, if we were to pass such a rule our balance of the budget would go to be blessed, because we should have or find the money to buy what we are currently buying. Or we would have difficulty selling what we are selling, not to make big profits - I don't want to think about this - but simply to maintain structures that serve the functioning of our health care. I do not understand, therefore, what this agenda has to do with my bill. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX, PD, M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u59	SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to reopen the debate in which we have spoken insistently by Mr Giovanardi, Mr Aiello and myself. I just want to remind you that, instead, we are talking about the same thing: we are talking about the danger of exploitation for commercial purposes of poor people in poor countries. If you want to reason for ovarian stimulation, for poor women in the commercial service of intermediaries whose ultimate recipient, perhaps and tends, is a wealthy one of the richest countries on the planet. [[Applause from Senator Giovanardi]] But I don't want to follow you along this path. I shall confine myself to proposing the agenda, so that the effectiveness of a ban, which is in force and is in accordance with the legislative decrees transposing European directives, which have been recalled this morning by the Undersecretary Ferri, may be deepened. I am talking about this: imperfect rules because, on the one hand, they provide for the free circulation of tissues and cells and, on the other hand, there are no sanctions to which the European directive referred by referring the definition to the Member States. In the new text of the agenda G1.103 - which I am going to read - you will not find the reference to non-profit-making entities precisely in order to have the best in-depth analysis, which, in our opinion, should lead to the presence of first intermediaries who are not profit-making. The Senate, in the discussion of the bill (...), considering that in the matter of the transfer and exchange of cells and tissues the principle of gratuitousness applies in Italy, commits the Government to take every appropriate initiative so that the same principle of gratuitousness is effective and guaranteed in every possible condition. I hope that the government will want To welcome him.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u60	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u61	Mr President, there are two items on the agenda G1.103. On the first, which was set out in a certain way, the opinion would have been strongly opposed because of the extraneousness of the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u62	Now there is this second text.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u63	CASSON, Rapporteur. Excuse me, ma'am, can I give you a reason? I was saying that on the first text, which was binding on the Government even on circumstances on which it could not be committed, there would be a clear opposite opinion. In the second text, which has been presented, the question is raised in a much more bland way and the principle of gratuitousness in every possible condition is essentially supported. In relation to this second text, I refer myself back to the House. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u64	The government appreciates the reformulation. It would accept the agenda as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u65	Senator Sacconi, do you accept the proposal addressed to you by the government representative?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u66	Mr President, with my fellow Members, Mr Giovanardi and Mr Aiello, we are happy to accept this request, because it is a recommendation that is addressed to a government of which we are a member and which will certainly translate into action the request that we have wished to make today with reference to a clear regulatory vacuum. I am sorry that many colleagues look in doghouse at the gratuitousness of the transfer of human cells and tissues.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u69	DE BIASI (PD). Mr President, it is clear that by accepting the agenda as a recommendation, the possibility of voting is being bypassed, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that Law No 40 of 2004, Article 12 (6) already provides for a sanction. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bencini and Simeoni.]] What else do we want? There is an obvious extraneousness of matter. Professor De Luca made this extraordinary discovery that cures the cornea through stem cells. I say that to keep it in memory of this House. If it passes the criteria of gratuitousness, since that is a profit research, which is paid by a pharmaceutical company, we could not import those stem cells that are used to treat the cornea. Therefore, I only ask for respect for human beings and to stop stirring ghosts that are not there. The sanctions exist, there is a revision of Law No. 40 of 2004 in progress; a draft law has been presented: we complain about that, but we make sure that science and research go ahead for the good of human beings. Let us not stop progress for a battle that frankly no longer has any sense of being in the contemporary world. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senators Campanella, Romans Maurizio and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u72	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, it is clear that we are witnessing a psychodrama of the majority, because honestly around 1 p.m. we have read some agencies in which it was even anticipated that if this amendment had not been adopted it would open up deep reflections within the majority group. That's what Senator Sacconi wrote. Faced with this, I say to you: address this issue. If you want a suspension, do it. You have suspended the sitting for 10 minutes to turn an amendment into an agenda and from the agenda you have now treated it as a recommendation. If this is the way in which you are most involved, we have no doubt that tomorrow Minister Alfano will say: We didn't let the left take over this law. Congratulations. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Comments of Senators Giovanardi and Sacconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u75	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I would just like to make a brief comment. At a time when this House is dealing with a high and serious matter that has finally seen a work on the substance, a sharing on the modalities, a real exchange between different competences, because this is the point (they are different competences and different experiences), and a text that has been considered to be acceptable almost unanimously, creates real bitterness to see that even in such a context we take the opportunity to carry out a personal battle that has emerged in the penultimate intervention of Senator Sacconi in all its evidence to be ideological. I would like to take this opportunity to say that this country no longer needs to make necessary issues a place of confrontation and ground of negotiation for ideological positions. Either we want to understand it or people will not vote anymore, rightly! Therefore, such an agenda, which becomes a recommendation or remains an amendment, deserves nothing more than bitter abstention. [[Applause from Senators Bencini and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u76	However, since the authors do not insist on the vote, the agenda for the second reading (text 2) is accepted as a recommendation. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 1 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Senator D'Anna says he wants to intervene]] Did you vote wrong, Senator D'Anna? You wanted to vote in favour? [[Senator D'Anna's Notes]] All right, then you'll let the offices know you're gonna vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1, tabled by the rapporteur, amending the title of the draft law, which calls for the following words to be added to the title: GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 1, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u79	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, our Group is a highly democratic group and so, of course, everyone is left free to vote according to their conscience. I therefore believe that we must make a loud thought which the double colleague, Senator and Doctor, Maurizio Romani, has not done. The question we ask ourselves is this: why in Italy, depending on the years, disappear from 20 to 40 minors per year and no mass media, no proxy, no talk show gets passionate about this phenomenon, which is a real epidemic? On the other hand, I see that we are passionate about the fact that with this law we are creating an amendment to the right penal code, but with sanctions that I consider to be highly repressive. I do not believe that everything that is repressive is correct, because it does not prevent a crime or try to carry on and combine science in a fair balance with conscience, which is difficult. I would like to say that, although I generally share the content of this measure, I immediately announce my vote against it, while my group's colleagues are free to vote in accordance with their thinking. Specific rules on organ transplants are already in place in our regulatory framework and sanctions for those dealing with so-called organ trafficking are already well defined by Law No 91 of 1999. In particular, the financial resources have recently been intensified - doubled, to be precise - for those who obtain a profit-making body. In the same law, a new article has been introduced from the eloquent title, dear colleagues (so we have already done): "Sanctions on the trafficking of organs for transplants" which introduces the sentence of imprisonment from three to six years and financial penalties from 10,000 to 50,000 euros. All this, ladies and gentlemen, has already happened very recently, with the Stability Act 2013. The desire for a further tightening of the edittal penalties, as provided for in Article 2 of the draft law, therefore seems to me frankly excessive, even in the light - I repeat - of the changes made in this matter only a short time ago. Same considerations apply to the envisaged prohibition from the exercise of the profession for those who abusively procure an organ, albeit non-profit, according to what currently provided for by paragraph 4 of Article 22 of Law No 91 of 1999. At present, the prohibition is temporary, with a maximum limit fixed in five years, for those who obtain a non-profit body; with the amendments proposed by the measure in question, however, colleagues, cause the concatenated ancillary penalties, this limit would double, even up to a maximum of ten years, according to Article 79 of the penal code, for those who procure non-profit an organ, for example, to those who find themselves in a moment of despair. In fact, we must also enter the psychological moment and understand who we are facing: someone who is going to die and someone else who, non-profit, tries to help him, but risks being disbarred even by the Order of Doctors (beak and beaten, as they say). Look, ladies and gentlemen, that the tourism of the fertilization that took place because of our laws, which did not allow that heterologous one, involved 40,000 children, implying that as many families had to go abroad to have the satisfaction, beauty and enthusiasm of fatherhood and motherhood, and they did so at their expense, almost in a clandestine way. If at that time a law such as this had been in force, we would not have had these 40,000 pearls, which have enriched our country demographically (without considering the beauty of a family with a child). Colleagues, science is evolution and must go forward without whether or not. This is a Parliament that would also condemn Galileo Galilei for demonstrating that the earth is round because it has a judicial culture that has nothing to do with democracy and freedom of thought. Ladies and gentlemen, prevention must always be first and foremost. As far as Article 1 of the measure under discussion is concerned, namely the introduction into the criminal code of the criminal code of association for the trafficking of organs intended for transplantation, in principle one could also agree, but, ladies and gentlemen, we know that then there are judges who have no competence, who have no professionalism, who have already condemned scholars because they have not foreseen earthquakes. They opened files - a recent case is a few months ago - because in a First Aid in Sardinia they were unable to save a hundred and two years old grandfather. See that doctors do not have the long-lived elixir; they do not have the opportunity to resurrect the dead. It is a biological life that ends and, therefore, at all times, there is the magistrate on duty who wants to go to the newspapers and does stupid things without having any responsibility, because there is no professional responsibility as they have all other professional categories and all Italians and are, therefore, a real and unique caste. Well, they do not respond and, therefore, even when some doctor or nonprofit association tries to help those in difficulty risk being condemned in this field. We are, however, once again faced with excessive aggression as regards the penalties provided for both edittal and pecuniary, which find no justification whatsoever. The last paragraph of Article 1 also provides that even those who publish announcements relating to the marketing of organs intended for transplantation are subject to the same penalty as those who organize or propagate journeys aimed at illicit trafficking of organs. Perhaps, ladies and gentlemen not doctors, you have never seen the despair, even psychological, of those who are faced with a choice for which an organ is found or who die. They're willing to do anything. And we put them in jail, too? What do you want me to give a shit about these? They're dead anyway. Here, too, it seems to me that the sanction provided for is far too much, especially in view of the obvious differences between the two cases. The measure therefore appears, although acceptable as regards the introduction into the penal code of a specific crime relating to association aimed at the trafficking of organs, decidedly and unnecessarily exaggerated as regards the penalties provided. This is all the more true if we take into account the desire to increase the penalties already foreseen for those who act individually, without being part of any kind of criminal association. In the light, therefore, of this clear will to affect with excessive hardness facts however deplorable, while sharing the new case that is wanted to introduce into the penal code, I confirm my will to vote against because it is an excessive tightening of penalties of a law that already exists and is already more than ever guaranteed. Of course, I am announcing the freedom of conscience of my Group, the only real great democratic group. [[Applause from Senator Comrade.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u80	We greet the students and the teachers of the secondary school of first degree "Francesco De Sanctis" in Aquilonia, in the province of Avellino. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u83	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we also make a brief explanation of vote, which also wants to be an expression of appreciation, which is very much felt by the Group of the North Legacy, of this bill, as it has also been dismissed by the Commission. Sometimes it is surprising to think about the successes of medicine if you remember that distant 1902, when Alexis Carrel did the first surgery. We arrive today, where we talk about nearly 115,000 transplants performed every year around the world. We are talking about a huge amount, which testifies to the very difficult problems in medicine and how much there is the extreme, extreme need for these transplants to be carried out in possession of the necessary material, also and above all to avoid all that series of traffics. The problem, in fact, is in the waiting lists which, unfortunately, still today, represent a difficult reality. We are talking, limited to Italy, of a waiting list that, for example, in December 2013 (it is a fact that we found in the site of AIDO itself), was of almost 9,000 people: 9,000 cases, 9,000 lives that are there, which depend on an act that normally comes from a great act of generosity - that of the donation of an organ - or that, unfortunately, at times, is the consequence of other sad events. It's as if a life is born out of a death. The problem is also highlighted by the data provided by Senator Romani: 20 percent of patients, unfortunately, die during these very long expectations. They are deaths that, at that time, become difficult to accept by family members and by those who survive these very difficult moments of crisis. Death becomes almost intolerable in view of the fact that, probably, that life could be saved through that act of spontaneity and extreme generosity, which is the donation of an organ. The length of these waiting lists is linked to the huge question that - we repeat - also stems from the fact that medicine has reached levels so appreciable that it considers it possible to use these facilities, when decades ago one could not even imagine being able to achieve these results. Unfortunately, however, these long waiting lists and the despair of those who wait can feed illegal trafficking, which, unfortunately, are very, but very widespread. Even during the general discussion there was talk of business trips of $600 million or even $1 billion. So we are talking about a huge organization that, unfortunately, is around the demand for desperate people. There are also cases that have jumped to the news. Those are the cases that leap to the news, but who knows what is the unknown world that remains in the dark, maybe even of bad neighborhoods or small countries, perhaps in the realities of the Third World. I remind those who did not remember the case of that country in Nepal: in a country of 4,000 inhabitants there were even 121 kidneys officially sold. I would like to point out that the data are not likely to be true. For those who have the misfortune to see these poor people, you can still see photos of people who, lifting up the shirt, show the scar of the point where the organ was taken. Let's think about what conditions these people can currently live in. Probably this bill does not solve this huge problem, this great tragedy; but, at least, it is an important step, in particular in coming to punish the trafficking of organs and all those organizations that are suitable and whose objective is to make a real dealing of organs (organs taken, even, from living people). It is important to introduce this type of crime hypothesis, just as it is important to have provided for the penalties contained in the text dismissed by the Commission; we are talking about imprisonment from three to twelve years and fines from 50 000 to 300 000 euros. The penalties that have been chosen and which will be paid are significant and are aimed at sanctioning very serious hypotheses, not only because it is a fact that already in itself involves a injury, but also because this problem concerns the exploitation of conditions of despair. Unfortunately, we also see professionalism enslaved to these shameful organizations. That is why it is important to have included this very hypothesis of crime, and it is for this reason that we in the Northern League Group have already advanced our vote in favour of the text. I think it is also important that, during the debate both in the Commission and here in the House, there was no major amending activity; this confirms that the substance of the draft law had a quality that was appreciated by all the Commissioners and, as you can see, also by the whole House. We therefore hope and hope that this type of legislation will protect these realities of despair and that there will be no children who have been abandoned or found dead - as the rapporteur said before - with the organs already taken. Think of all those children who are missing, all those children who are actually extremely disadvantaged. Many data sometimes surprise us: let's think about the immigration episodes that have had as their object Italy, where many minors are not recorded, are not found and we no longer even know where they are and what their fate has been. So it is hoped that this law can achieve its objective: to curb this kind of reality and to prevent the occurrence of terrible cases of human misery, with crimes and nefariousness aimed precisely at exploiting the anxiety, pain and fear of those who need another creature to live or even need the death of another person to live. Let us think of these people, our thoughts must go only to these people, who have nothing, except their own body or perhaps even this: a body that becomes the last exchange goods available. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Maurizio Romani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u86	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I shall be much shorter than this morning, since I have already expressed a great deal of the concept of the bill: to provide valuable instruments to prevent trade in parts of the human body. I have been provoked a little by the senator and colleague Barani, to whom I would like to make it clear that trying to increase the pain has its own logic, which is not simply to be bad. This trade of organs also happens because there are shady figures - let's call them so, for simplicity - that they earn a lot on the brokerage, that is, on the fact of doing actions that facilitate the contacts between the subject who needs an organ and the donor subject. Now, I don't think this person can just cleanse his conscience because he didn't get any money. The fact of increasing the penis serves in the first place to ensure that you can acquire the evidence. I needed to make sure that these people could have the phone under control, that legally valid interceptions could be made. If then, Senator Barani, you think that the one who did this at the bottom found an organ for a needy, I want to tell you that the Bloody Harvest organization has made a report on Chinese websites that promise a kidney in seven days: that in seven days it is possible to find a kidney that can be related and transplanted seems very problematic, so much so that on one of these sites, public, is assured that an organ can be replaced in case the first transplant fails. Keep in mind, Senator Barani, that Chinese military doctors, through the various prisons, groups or so-called factories, have at their disposal an infinite number of subjects to whom they can withdraw organs. So let me say, Senator, that if I advise a patient of mine to go to China because in a week he has an organ, even if it doesn't earn me money, I'm doing something that as a doctor I consider obnoxious, so the fact that in this case that doctor is disbarred from the register seems to me to be the least. Comparing what happens in Italy with what happens in India or China seems very reductive. My bill, in addition to punishing certain behaviors, actually also has another objective, that is - perhaps I will fail - to light the spotlight on what is transplant in Italy, which has made our country one of the first in Europe for the number of donations and transplants, with an undisputed leadership. Do you know what the problem is, Senator Barani? The problem is that we have to make sure that people come forward with the belief that giving an organ is not at all risky, nor serious, especially when one dies in an accident, as I explained this morning. Then there is another problem on which I think it would be right to turn on the spotlight. We have transplant surgeons of excellence worldwide, but few doctors decide to do this specialization because there are big risks and, as we all know, we try to avoid specializations at the highest risk. This is therefore another problem that will have to be addressed. I then documented the number of transplants in Italy on August 31, 2014, I am obviously referring to the regular and transparent ones, with the total traceability of the organ: we are talking about 1,571 kidney transplants, 1,033 liver transplants, 228 heart transplants and 126 lungs. Moreover, thanks to an awareness of this issue - which was discussed even before I presented this bill, at various meetings - the donors at 31 August 2014 were 1,152, about 100 more than in the same period of the coming year. I therefore believe that this is one of the positive aspects of this bill. It is also for this reason, Dr Barani, that I ask you to review your position: the bill will also be approved without your vote, but I would be very pleased if, from a socialist like you, there were an openness and a better understanding of this aspect which, I repeat, is linked only to the defence of a well-defined lobby, that of the patient, which many times needs. Therefore, in declaring my Group's vote in favour, as the first signatory of this draft law, I hope that, just as it has been accepted in the Commission - even unanimously by the Health Commission - the measure will also make a quick excursus to the House and be approved. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Bencini, Bell and Gaetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u89	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I rise to declare the People's Area Group's vote in favour of this draft law with some clarification, however, regarding the debate that has taken place in this House. 18.15 p.m. (Follows YOUNG PEOPLE). I would remind some Members that the debate in this House is an enriching moment in parliamentary democracy, because the work of the Commission is preparatory and, above all, when debates and discussions have already taken place in the Commission on certain issues, the fact that these issues also emerge in this House is important because the whole Senate must be involved in such important matters. I am sorry to hear that our amendment, which was then turned into an agenda, was ideological; it was exactly the reverse of ideology, first of all because there is a precise regulatory link to a European directive which calls on Italy to sanction illegal behaviour when they have as their object cells and human genetic material. I fully agree with the President of the Senate Health Commission when he says that scientific research must go on. Imagine, colleagues: have we fought lost battles to allow, for example, that in Italy we could experiment on guinea pigs (and this Senate has forbidden to experiment, for example, the substances of abuse on mice and put limits much more restrictive than those European ones to allow scientific research to make progress on guinea pigs) and at the same time you want us to have no attention at the time when we work with human beings or, as in the case of organs, on pieces of human beings, or, as in the case that we have pointed out, in front of a phenomenon - that only a blind person can not see - of a commodification of the human body that, as Sacconi has said well, concerns the poor, the desperate, those who have to sell their body or pieces of it or in any case have to undergo invasive and dangerous medical practices (and they do not, as the Italian law provides, for free, but for necessity and are exploited at the time when, as you have seen, so many countries of the world, last Thailand, are introducing laws precisely to prevent this shameful merchandise of situations of discomfort)? I believe that in this debate we have made a positive contribution in the Commission and in this House, in agreement with almost all of Parliament, in the fight against organ trafficking. We have raised a problem and we are very pleased that the Government has accepted our agenda as a recommendation, because at government level we need to strike a fair balance between the sacred rights of scientific research and the limits to be set to protect human dignity. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and Senator Scilipoti Isgrò.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u92	GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, the general discussion has shown that transplant surgical techniques have been simplified and extended in every country of the world; immunosuppressive drug therapies have also become effective and easily administered, with reduced side effects. These elements have led to increased demand for organs and thus increased demand, in the face of an almost stationary supply. We must remember that organ transplants must be distinguished into two large groups. First of all there are the so-called "beating drum" transplants, that is to say, heart and lung, organs that must be explanted and immediately transplanted; therefore these organs must be explanted by people who are brain dead and in the meantime artificially kept alive. This group of organs, because of the complexity of the levy, lends little to trade. Then there is another group of organ transplants - especially the kidney and to a lesser extent the liver - but they can be explanted by living people without a particular risk of life. For the kidney there remains a slight impairment, which for the civil disability tables is quantified for a 25%, but in controlled health contexts there is a discreet quality of life for the donor. I remember that the transplant of kidney between living is already governed by the law of 1967, n 458; a very restrictive law, which clearly provides who can give and what are the formal procedures for the explantation and the subsequent transplant. The same legal mechanism was made for transplanting liver portions by Law No 483 of 1999. As far as I am concerned, organ trafficking has been created in many parts of the world, in which donors are such for the sake of money or other utility. In fact, I would like to remind you that in some countries early release is allowed for those who donate an organ. They usually ask for a kidney for sick people who see a change in transplant for their quality of life. Given that pockets of poverty are on the rise all over the world and that even desperate people who are willing to deprive themselves of an organ are growing, the trade in organs must necessarily be blocked. Therefore, the introduction of an article in the penal code that strongly penalises those who are members of associations aimed at the trafficking, sale or illicit donation of organs is necessary and necessary. While on the one hand, with this measure, we must suppress the abuse of transplants, on the other we must pursue the intentions of Law No 91, 1999 that encourages those virtuous behaviors that reduce those pathologies whose cure requires an organ transplant. These aims require a new way of doing health and therefore need funds, which the National Health System is cutting indiscriminately. Funds that could also implement all those organizational aspects for transplanting corpse kidney, allowing it, as is already being done in many European countries, increasing its supply and reducing the waiting lists and thus also the temptation of desperate people to turn to the foreign market of organ trafficking. Having said that, I declare on behalf of the 5 Star Movement the vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u95	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, the Group of the European Forza Italia will vote in favour of this measure, to which, in the Commission, we have contributed, starting with President Palma, who has drawn up a series of amendments to the text in order to make it compatible with a serious sanctioning system. The debate in the Commission has led us to a unanimous assessment of the condemnation of some of the practices still being carried out, which give rise to a serious social alarm and must be punished. I would also add, in connection with a debate on the measure under consideration, that I would not have voted on the Giovanardi amendment and not because I did not agree with it. Look, I wouldn't have voted for it and I would've been as careful, and I'm going to go to the Undersecretary. Acceptance as a recommendation from the government leads me personally to wonder what's wrong. It is true that the directive to which Mr Casson referred exists, but it is true that there is also an indication that everything must be dealt with by non-profit institutions. But these institutions have not yet been implemented; therefore, the Government, which accepted the agenda as a recommendation, must commit itself to achieving the institutions. A criminal penalty, Senator Giovanardi, can only be applied when those non-profit institutions have been realized and therefore when all the citizens of our country, and also of other European countries, will be given the opportunity to access certain treatments (e.g. those with stem cells or other). It is clear that only then will the criminal penalty be able to intervene to punish those who, instead of turning to non-profit institutions, turn to organizations that make a profit by relying on the misery and the scarce possibilities that each of us has to access certain systems. The President of the Health Commission is right: we need to go further. Madam President, in 2010 I had the chance to participate, on behalf of the Italian Government, in the World Congress on Crime held in Salvador de Bahia and on that occasion I visited the hospital "San Raffaele," where the research on its own stem cells is carried out, aimed at achieving a definitive solution in this area. The Government therefore, in addition to implementing the directive, induces and favours these research hypotheses, which serve to guarantee a different world, in which we all have equal access, free of charge, to the possible reserves of care for any health deficiency, impossibility of procreation and for any human condition. Faced with this, I hope that the Government, having accepted the recommendation - as it was correct that it did, since it was off the subject - will undertake to work, once the conditions laid down in the European directive have been fulfilled, to identify a possible sanction for those who will continue to operate outside the rules laid down by the European Convention. Mine is only a clarification of the debate that has taken place today on the amendments, but I remain convinced that the goodness of the bill that we are about to approve will lead our country to qualify again as, according to the rules that establishes our Constitution also in this matter. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Romani Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u98	LUMIA (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Party of European Socialists is voting for this important bill - a long-awaited bill - which is capable of making our legislation very rigorous in order to affect the trafficking of organs intended for transplantation. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that interest is being organised around this traffic, and there is also a hateful way of striking children above all. We have mentioned cases on which we have been able to open our eyes and crack down that wall of hypocrisy which prevents public opinion, but also the institutions and the policy itself, from taking on this very serious problem. Colleagues, a treaty that was wanted internationally, signed on 2 May 2008, included three different relevant criminal conducts: trafficking in persons for the purpose of removal of organs, trafficking in organs independently considered and finally medical tourism for transplant purposes. Our country has had its own legislation on the matter, with the rules that have been carved in articles 600 and 601 of the penal code, where the reduction or maintenance in slavery or servitude and the trafficking itself are sanctioned, also aimed at forcing the victim to undergo the withdrawal of organs. But that was not enough. The Council of Europe adopted the International Convention which I used to recall and made clear that the Member States had to intervene, and so it has been done. I remind everyone that, in Article 1, the new crime of trafficking in organs taken from a living person (the known article 601-a) is introduced into the penal code. The new code article covers three cases: the illicit trade in organs, the organization and propaganda of travel, the advertising and the dissemination of announcements aimed at the trafficking of organs. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the condemnation, in the event of a medical profession being committed, involves a perpetual ban. We have also inserted, in the second paragraph of Article 1, a severe penalty against anyone who organizes and propaganda travels or advertises and disseminates by any means, including by electronic or informative means, adverts aimed at the traffic of organs or part of them. Article 2, which we have approved, amends the crime of association for criminals, as referred to in Article 416 of the Criminal Code, introducing an act that provides for a heavy imprisonment depending on whether it is the activity of promotion, constitution or organization of the criminal association or that it simply takes part in it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to vote on a draft law that can become a serious and rigorous leader so that we can say that ours is one of the most advanced countries in the fight against organ trafficking. A country that makes such a choice is civil and can really be able to avoid not only any attempt, but also associative organizations aimed at organ trafficking. I should like to thank all the colleagues who have worked on this, from the presenters to the Commission, and the Democratic Party, who have made sure that this draft law finds its conclusion before in the Commission and now in the Chamber. In short, ladies and gentlemen, it is a text shared by majority and opposition, a beautiful moment of parliamentary work that qualifies the work of the Senate and puts us in a position to say: against organ trafficking we intervene as a strict and rigorous country. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Roman Senators Maurizio and Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u101	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u102	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole, in the amended text, with the following title: Amendments to Penal Code and Law No 91 of 1 April 1999 on the trafficking of organs for transplantation and Law No 458 of 26 June 1967 on kidney transplantation between living persons. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u105	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in these hours there has been a worrying up-to-date comeback and there is a growing international concern about the failure of the IDI and the San Carlo di Nancy di Roma, Villa Paola a Viterbo and other structures involved, on which I have also put a question to the Ministers for Health and Economic Development over the past few weeks. There are protests and workers' garrisons, which once again are the weakest and most severely injured by wretched bankruptcy and property operations. It is a complex affair that intercepts concerns at different levels, in terms of employment first and foremost, the protection of structures of excellence, which cannot be dispersed, and finally from the ethical point of view. I consider it unacceptable that the parties responsible for the failure of the above-mentioned structures - the Italian Province of the Congregation of the Sons of the Immaculate Conception, the religious institute that owns hospitals (including the IDI), in which the Rome Public Prosecutor has made some excellent arrests for embezzlement aggravated, fraudulent patrimonial bankruptcy, issue and use of false invoices and concealment of accounting records - can buy back, through the Luigi Maria Monti Foundation established ad hoc, and with the endorsement of the Ministry of Economic Development, the same patrimony, for a fraction of its value. The names of the Parent Fathers and Valentini, Eugenio Luchetti and Natalino Poggi return. The investigations were concluded yesterday: the website de "La Repubblica" published the news of the request for referral to trial for the 40 persons investigated in the context of the investigation on the financial failure concerning the Italian Province of the Congregation of the Sons of the Immaculate. At the center of the investigation for illicit facts and appropriates - occurred in damage especially of the IDI between 2007 and 2012 - there is the activity of father Franco Decaminada, managing director of the IDI that, until 2011, has been in charge of the management of the health sector, and its collaborator Domenico Temperini, former managing director of IDI-Pharmaceutics as well as general manager protempore of IDI-Sanità. There is talk of an asset liability of the institution of approximately 850 million euros, distractions of availability for more than 82 million euros, undue use of public funds for more than 6 million euros. According to the report of the Republic of Rome, the financiers of the Rome tax police unit have reconstructed distractions through cash withdrawals from the cash accounts of the institution to work, mainly, of father Decaminada and Temperini, as well as through the payment of invoices for non-existent transactions, issued by professionals and complacent companies. 20 companies and 5 organic professionals emerged at the mechanism designed by Father Decaminada and his accomplices who, through the issuance of fictitious invoices and through a tried and tested mechanism of interposition of corporate screens, drained the financial availability of the religious agency. Financial flows have been intercepted involving countries with privileged taxation (Panama, Switzerland and Liechtenstein). 65 episodes of embezzlement have been detected. Another theme, which emerges from the text of the intervention that I will give to the documents, is the size of the damage. What is extremely intolerable at this point in the story is the total absence of discussion by the parties responsible for the bankruptcy, who would now like to buy back the assets of the institution, on a plan of full repayment of past debts, including those accumulated by extraordinary management, which would have raised the liabilities over billion. The only recognised debt is to a well-known credit institution: further confirmation of the scale of reference values in this type of transaction. There are no plans for reorganization and business development, on the other hand; no consultation with trade union organizations, to guarantee certainties to the many workers involved, to defend all levels of professionalism, as well as to give continuity of care to so many citizens; nor are any further redundancies excluded, with the result that all this will once again be paid on the part of the people, forced in the past also to work without remuneration. Behind this reality there are untransparent scenarios, as highlighted by an article of "L'Espresso" this week entitled "Peccati cardinali", which inserts the story of the IDI in the context of the diatribes of power within the Vatican, imputing to the head of the Secretariat of the Economy, Cardinal Pell, the responsibility of refusing to save the hospital, responsibility that would have provoked the reaction of part of the ecclesiastical hierarchy. From this reconstruction we must draw a cue and take on our responsibility as well. Given all these premises, we want to know what will happen to the health and welfare functions of the IDI and, above all, the excellences in the field of medical and research. Is there really the political will to disperse such a precious heritage for the whole country, to give this gift to the subjects who have sunk it? I again ask the Government and the Lazio Region - as I have already done on many other occasions - for a clear commitment to the protection of our health excellences and to guarantee employment levels, as well as the institutional intransigence necessary to prevent the sale of IDI and San Carlo to those responsible for their failure. The work of so many people deserves respect also through a definitive solution of the story that, through a shared strategy and commitments, can finally guarantee the stability and serenity fundamental to restart that path also of scientific research and health care, which can give our country hope in the future. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u106	The Presidency authorizes you to hand over the text of your speech so that it is annexed to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u109	CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, I would just like to remind the House of what is unfortunately happening in Pompeii. We learn that today a preemptive seizure of about 6 million euros of the assets of the former commissioner delegated to the archaeological excavations Marcello Fiori, who had been appointed by the minister Bondi of the Berlusconi government. At present, this Mr. Marcello Fiori (more than this name can not be attributed to him, even if the word "sir" is already in itself an honor for that person) is the national coordinator of the clubs "Forza Silvio." Sometimes we have to think that all the discussion that we have held today on the anti-corruption bill and all the problems related to corruption magically come together with all these events. We suspect that all these strange intersections find their logic and fall back in Parliament, without considering the fact that, unfortunately, once again, we are dealing with a good like Pompeii, to whom I am also fond of as a bell. This story once again throws our attention on what happens in Pompeii. Perhaps we should take action seriously, spend the money well and not deviate from the course. Now that we have to close the Grand Pompeii Project, are we sure that we can spend all the money in time and well? Pompei deserves special attention and, therefore, we ask once again for clarity, order and above all for a good so important for the richness of our State, which does not have a great industrial production, but a cultural heritage so boundless that perhaps it truly represents our wealth. It will therefore be appropriate to put our attention to this and to eliminate all the waste and stealing that can be done about culture. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u112	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, the speech I intend to make is to bring to the attention of the House an incident which occurred in the municipality of Cairate a few days ago. In front of the mayor Paolo Mazzucchelli, a foreign citizen, of non-Italian nationality, asked to be able to take the oath to receive Italian citizenship, which had evidently been granted to her by decree of the President of the Republic. The mayor, at the time when he began the procedures to receive the oath, realized that the person did not even know how to speak Italian. In the face of this circumstance, of course, the question has been raised as to how citizenship could be complete, whether that person to whom it was granted could not even linguistically interpret the rules of the country to which he wishes to subject himself. This was the result of a debate in political terms and also of reflection on the part of the people. The mayor received bipartisan support, which means that on these issues we must be serious and everyone understands it. But the disconcerting fact is the attitude of the institutions. In this case, the Prefect of Varese pointed out that it is absolutely insignificant whether he knows the Italian language or not. It has even been discovered that the same person received citizenship by decree of the President of the Republic, presenting (or rather not presenting) an act of marriage. Therefore, she was issued an official document stating that she was an Italian citizen and that, going to take an oath before the mayor, she would become it: and this according to an act that does not even exist. I wonder then how it is possible that deception is used and the institutions do not check before granting citizenship to a foreign national. And how is it possible for a mayor to have to take the oath of a person who doesn't even know how to read the text of the oath, because he doesn't know the Italian language? This must lead us to a serious reflection, because becoming Italian citizens cannot ignore a learning path and, of course, integration. Any superficial or perbenist reading would be very dangerous. And let us remember that there is a matter related to this issue, which is that of easy marriages. The Carabinieri have already carried out a lot of investigations, revealing various circumstances in which marriages are contracted after payment only to become Italian citizens. It's a very serious matter. We here in this House will deal with short marriages and matters that are being simplified in administrative terms as well. Attention! It is not only the credibility of the institution that is at stake, but also the holding of serious acts such as marriage. And above all, I repeat that we cannot stand before the mayor to take an oath without even knowing the Italian language.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u115	WOMAN (M5S). Madam President, on the occasion of Expo 2015, many Italian regions have made use, or are still using, of public calls for the realization of activities and services necessary for the participation in the Universal Exhibition of Milan, but something strange is happening in Puglia. In complete divergence with what the other Regions of Italy are doing, the Puglia Region would not seem to resort to public notices. It is rather a fragmentation of resources through direct contributions to the local action groups, the aggregations of municipalities, associations and those who have more. It is clear that the absence of a unitary project for territorial promotion, together with unorthodox management of resources, is not exactly the best business card that can be presented at a universal exhibition. Is it another brand like "we help friends" or the launch of the umpteenth find so "today I give to you, tomorrow you give back to me"? We'd really like to know. This situation has been brought to the attention of the Commission with a first-signed question, the 4-03460, and I would like to take this opportunity to ask for an answer. Mr Martina - apparently - continues to listen as a merchant, and has not yet responded, as has the local authorities, that continue to carry out this plan of exercise to say the least unusual of taxpayers' money. Soon Puglia will be in a context in which you will have to show its best facets: the charm of centuries-old traditions and, at the same time, the ability to keep up with innovation. It is not mere bell towerism - my own - but to show an image that responds as much as possible to its own excellences and potentialities, an image of a Region first of all honest and integral. This beginning with various pies and nepotisms, instead, preludes the worst. Dear Regione Puglia, dear Minister Martina, let's try to make order on the issue and avoid a bad figure in front not only of our country, but also of the rest of the world that will participate in the 2015 Universal Exhibition. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u118	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am perhaps the tenth or fifteenth in this House to reiterate and put to the attention of the President of the Senate a very delicate issue, namely the fact that the acts of inspection union presented by many Members of Parliament do not receive an answer from the Government. I pointed out this issue a few months ago, but I did not achieve any kind of result. I repeat that I have submitted, over the last six months, about twenty acts of inspection union, to which no reply has been given. I would ask you, Madam President, to take action to ensure that the acts of inspection union presented by Members of Parliament get answers - not immediately, but in the time required by law, as they say in vulgar jargon - and that their needs are so met. Having said that, in conclusion, I would like to give a thought to the colleague of the 5 Star Movement Group who spoke before me. When it comes to people, you have to use the standard of good education. We cannot speak of an Italian citizen - in this case we were referring to Marcello Fiori - using incorrect words, in an attempt to delegitimize and despise him. Marcello Fiori, as far as I and many others are concerned, is a highly esteemable and decent person. If, however, we perceive attitudes other than the behavior of a good person, we will take note of it. To date, however, no one has questioned the quality and seriousness of this person, who is called Marcello Fiori. I would therefore ask my fellow senators, when they address Italian people or citizens, not to use unqualified adjectives or to try to delegitimise them through language which is not in line with the role we play in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u119	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-403.ana.u120	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday, March 5, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.52.
