ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 19 December 2014.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u4	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:44 hours) begins. Before we move on to the agenda, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you a personal communication. In view of the tragedy that struck France and Paris, yesterday there was no chance, but today, on behalf of the Presidency, I wish all my colleagues every success in a good 2015: good work and above all health, which is always needed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u8	Mr President, I believe that the debate we are holding on the electoral law, which follows the debate we have held on constitutional reform, requires additional information on the overall functioning of the institutions of Italian politics and democracy, with particular reference to the functioning of the government institution, both within itself and in its relationship with Parliament. I am referring to the controversy, mainly based on incomplete information, concerning the tax decree, which was the subject of approval by the Council of Ministers on Christmas Eve. At the initiative of the press, some aspects were brought to the attention of Parliament that were not in the indications of the delegation law, which was a law with wide meshes, and which is not clear how, because and by whom were inserted in that text that for a period of time was published and then, in the end, it was withdrawn from the government's website, but not for this reason it was erased from the political memory of the nation, which in this case has Google's comfort, whose memory is, for good and evil, unassailable. I think it is useful that the presidency of the Senate, in a reasonably short and useful time - and you will allow me to say a few words - should find a way to get the Presidency of the Council to come to this House and give some information which I can summarize briefly. I believe that this House is interested in understanding what has actually been the text of the tax decree dismissed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, what text has arrived at the Council of Ministers, whether it is the same or whether it has been subject to changes in content (of course we are not interested in the drafting changes and the correction of errors) and, if such changes in content have been made, who has made them and how. We are interested to know, to the extent reasonable and possible, whether there has been a debate on this matter in the Council of Ministers or not and who has spoken about it. Finally, we should be informed of what the text voted on and how, under what procedures, it was decided to withdraw it. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] You will tell me that we have read a lot about this in the newspapers. Well, I believe that, when the country's institutional structure is being remodelled, information cannot be delegated solely to the investigation of the press and television, but it must also be made official to the recipients of information about the government's action for the purposes of the necessary democratic control, i.e. to the Chambers. It is possible that nothing special will emerge from this information, but it is also possible - and this is my concern - that a not perfect functioning of the formation of political decisions will emerge. You see, several times the Presidency of the Republic has drawn the attention of the Italian politics on the abuse of decree-laws, on the substantial ambiguity and not full political correctness of the omnibus bill, on the abuse of trust votes and also, I add, on the formation of sometimes delegated laws with very broad links. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. MUCCHETTI (PD). If all this leads back to the centralization of decisions in the Council of Ministers and then - because that is what is emerging - within the Council of Ministers itself, collegial decisions are changed in substance by decisions taken in a monocratic way by other players, I believe that there is a problem of democratic governance that needs to be addressed and deployed. I start to conclude by recalling that in public limited companies that, I mean, are something less than the Italian company, we use the good rules of corporate governance to guarantee the trust of shareholders and stakeholders. I believe that the company Italy deserves a level of governance - not corporate governance, but political governance - better than that of a public limited company and that therefore, from this point of view, adequate transparency is needed also - I add, President Calderoli - for the dignity of the Chambers. So, without giving dates, but relying on the sensitivity of the Presidency of this House, I would ask the President of the Council to come and tell us how things went. It is not enough for us to assume political responsibility, because the point I am proposing is not strictly a point of merit; what interests us is the decision-making process, which is form and for democracy the form is very often substance. Thank you. [[Applause from the PD groups]] , M5S, Mixed-SEL and Mixed-MovX). PRESIDENT. - The debate is Colleagues, I remind you that at the beginning of the session only the interventions of the Leaders are allowed, unless, as in the case of Senator Cucchetti, there is authorization from the Group itself to carry out the intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u11	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Thank you, President. As you well said at the beginning of this sitting, it was very difficult yesterday to argue on other important issues, given the events in Paris. We agree with what Senator Mucchetti has just said, since it is also in our heart to ask the government to clarify, because it cannot be kept quiet that there is certainly a difficulty here in defining a governance process that the Commission should have with regard to the Parliament to which it has requested delegation. We are talking about the fiscal delegation, a rule that has appeared and disappeared, of a measure approved on the basis of a delegation received by Parliament, with a paragraph, the 19-a, first added is not known by whom and then by the Premier himself declared as added by his own hand. I would not like there to be some sort of authorization here to give lobbyists a guarantee of impunity. You see, Mr President, we must not forget that in the first Commission there is a bill, intended by the Democratic Party, to define relations with the lobbying system. The President of the Council of Ministers declares that he is responsible and direct extensor of this code. The Minister for the Interior stated that in the same discussion held at the Council of Ministers Prime Minister Renzi gave ample illustration of the subject he was dealing with. Certainly, there is a discrasia between the statements of the first moments, when no one knew where this codicil came from, and what emerged minute after minute, that is, a full conscience on the part of the Government of the scope of the content. We have tabled a motion, Mr President, and we ask that the Government come to this House to report on this matter. We are asking for this for institutional and constitutional correctness vis-à-vis Parliament and the citizens, because a rule cannot be made either ad personam or contra personam. If initially this rule was defined as a favor to President Berlusconi, today its withdrawal appears instead as a measure taken against the same person; if it had been introduced in favour of the citizens, now the citizens for whom it will not be applied are being harmed. I mean, it's a way of doing things on the part of the government that needs to be clarified. For us, there can be no loopholes in tax evasion, because the accounts have to be paid. To do otherwise would mean, implicitly and explicitly, to give an authorisation to commit crimes in a country in which tax evasion is declared a priority to be fought. We therefore call for the government to come and report to the House with absolute priority. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u14	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I will be very quick, since the speech is about the same subject as what I did yesterday, when Minister Boschi was present, who did not respond to me. Perhaps because I did not turn over 15,000 amendments and so I did not keep it at the corner. Today, since even from the PD comes the request to have the President of the Council present in this Chamber, I join this request and repeat what I said yesterday. [[Applause from Senator Moronese.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u17	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, even in recent days, since the emergence of this yellow in the newspapers, we, as the Left Ecology and Freedom, had asked for the President of the Council to report back to Parliament. In fact, some very sensitive issues are interwoven. The first is the operation of the Presidency of the Council, which, to be honest, Mr Calderoli, is not new. This time, however, it emerged in a striking way, with the discharge of the barrel started when one tried to understand who had been to insert this article 15 that introduces in Legislative Decree No. 74 of 2000 on tax crimes article 19-a. But we, by now, are constantly accustomed to announcements of provisions, decrees-laws, of which there is no trace and which then come (among other things after ten, fifteen or twenty days, therefore very calmly) published. I remember the mystery about the decree unlocks Italy, when it took exactly twenty days to understand what the actual content of the provision was. Therefore, the suspicion that the Council of Ministers, which is nevertheless a collegiate body and only the so-called covers of the measures, is operating to a very limited extent (i.e. approval by the Council of Ministers, which is nevertheless a collegiate body) is beginning to be almost a certainty. The second question is all political: it is a subject on which it is clear, Mr President, that there can only be a request to come and report here in Parliament. In fact, everything took place within legislative decrees, thus implementing a delegation. I remember the debate we had on the tax reform measure: we were faced, especially by the government and the majority, with repeated declarations of priority for action against tax evasion. For this reason, it is not an excess of delegation: here we are faced with a reversal of Parliament's will itself, with a genuine favour. Then let me make a joke: we would have spared everything, Mr President, if my proposal had been accepted, which was intended at last to put the Nazarene Pact in the proceedings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs (maybe it should have been done with the Committee on Finance and Treasury) and to proceed to the hearing of its actors in order to know the content, instead of discovering - as happens - a novelty every fifteen days or every month. Let me turn to the last question. We are about to enter a very delicate phase of the country's life and in a few days will begin - probably - the whole procedure for the election of the new President of the Republic. So, all the more so, the President-in-Office of the Council must come and report on this issue here. In fact, I think there are no more doubts, but almost certainties. The election of the new President of the Republic must be protected from all the operations and attempts to exchange which, unfortunately - alas - have emerged from this affair. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u20	SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I note with some astonishment that the Group of the Party of European Socialists has raised in this House the question of how the decision-making process within the government has been carried out. The subject, moreover, has been widely echoed in extra-parliamentary information and comments and it is therefore understandable that it should be proposed to this House. In our view, however, this is not in the terms raised by my colleague Mr Cucchetti, that is to say those of a sort of inquiry by Parliament into the internal decision-making process in the government and the characteristics of the complexity of the decision-making act. In fact, complexity itself implies ways that cannot be strictly codified in the relationship between the proposing Ministry, the Presidency of the Council and the collegiality of the Council of Ministers. On the contrary, there is an anomaly which, at this point, we would like to stress: I am referring to the relationship between the Government and Parliament. This is precisely the subject of this House, because the exercise of delegation must first of all be timely: this Government has made speed a figure of its own non-secondary identity and has discussed with previous governments precisely the slowness of implementation processes compared to parliamentary acts. Well, while we're talking, the delegated decrees relating to the jobs act haven't been passed on yet. Therefore, the Commissions responsible for expressing opinions were not allocated those acts which should allow, as soon as possible, the entry into force of contributions to new recruitments: yesterday's data on the labour market. It seems that we do not and will not have in the next few days - of which we complain explicitly - the delegated tax decrees, which were examined by the Council of Ministers during the sitting of Christmas Eve. What we are asking here is rather the timeliness of the delivery of these documents. Attention: also with regard to that decree and that controversial rule we are interested in the Government's conviction of it. Let the Government come and propose a text and do not delay after the vote on the new President of the Republic, in some way announced, following the announced resignation of the current President. Such an attitude would give rise to assumptions, such as those that have been widely made. The government comes straight to Parliament with that delegated decree, regardless of who would benefit from it, express its conviction and tell us what you think is right for our tax system and our system. Tell us what you think is right: come, propose the acts, put us in a position, as a Parliament, to express our opinion, so that the complexity of the act, which involves Parliament, then the Government and then again Parliament and finally the Government, is realized, thus giving the taxpayers certain rules and I hope also simple, that they can lead even more loyal collaboration between financial administration and the taxpayers themselves. Of this we should be surprised, that is, if the Government were to postpone the act for the controversy that has occurred and put it on a date, which could not fail to give rise to all the assumptions that have already been expressed and which would find further reason to express themselves. So, Mr President, what we are asking you to do is to pass on to the Government - for our part, at least - the request that it come to tell us how and when it will present this act. We ask you to present these acts immediately, since it is able, having drawn them up, evaluated and decided in the Council of Ministers. And I am referring to those relating to tax delegation, as well as those relating to delegation at work, because, as a Parliament, we want to express our opinion on those acts. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u23	TONINI (PD). Mr President, I think it is appropriate to clarify the way in which the debate on this sensitive issue took place. In view of the importance of the subject, the PD Group supported the request of Senator Mucchetti, who plays the important role of President of the Commission in the Senate, to intervene on this matter. And the Group has also done so by trusting in the responsibility and balance of our colleague. Of course, the contents expressed by Senator Cucchetti commit Senator Cucchetti and not the Group of the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u24	Colleagues, regarding the issues that have been raised and that are of interest to numerous Groups, regarding the Government the presence of the Undersecretary Pizzetti guarantees us the transmission of what requested to the Government itself. I would like to inform my colleagues that at 12.30 p.m. the Conference of Leaders is convened. Since there has also been talk of inspection union instruments, the timing of the acts under discussion can be discussed at the meeting. MARTON (M5S). You didn't have to give him the floor! PD has spoken twice. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Colleagues, at the beginning of 2015 you must all be better and not be too rigid. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u25	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1385, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of a bill of popular initiative and the draft own-initiative law of the Cirielli deputies; Pisicchio; Bersani and others; Francesco Saverio Romano; Best and others; Lenzi; Zampa and Marzano; Zampa and Ghizzoni; Martella; Francesco Sanna; Bobba and others; Giachetti and others; Giorgia Meloni and others; Rigoni and others; Rigoni and others; Nicoletti and others; Martella and others; Vargiu; Burtone and others; Balduzzi and others; Laffranco and others; Vargiu; Toninelli and others; Door and others; Zaccagnini and others; Valiante and others; Lauricella; Michele Bordo; Marco Meloni and others; Di Battista and others, and 1449.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u26	Mr President, I would like to make a few comments, partly echoing what I had already pointed out yesterday, in the debate on the questions we have put before us, contesting in a very clear way certain points of the electoral law that seem to us not only wrong but in profound contradiction with our constitutional dictation. Here, taking advantage of the fact that the substance of the matter is allowed in general discussion, I would also like to make some additional comments on some of the elements that form the background to the type of reflection that we are making. Colleagues, this kind of reflection has actually already begun, and to a large extent, a few months ago, when we discussed constitutional reform. Clearly, there is a very strong link between constitutional reform and the reform of the electoral law. These two themes cannot be considered disconnected, because they are sides of the same coin, and should be read in parallel. When we, a few months ago, insisted on the opposition to constitutional reform, we were frightened above all by the combined arrangement with the electoral law that was being built and highlighted a number of problems. We are pleased - if I may say so - that, during the weeks and months, those problems have become no longer simply the whim of the seven Senators of the Left Ecology and Freedom and of the other Senators of the Mixed Group who presented the many amendments at the time, but a field of political confrontation and have acquired the dignity of ground for discussion, given that some issues inevitably put in place a series of very serious problems. Then we talked, and I still talk about it today, about the fact that we cannot imagine the debate on electoral law and constitutional reform pretending not to see what is happening in our country at this historical stage. We are at the time of the greatest distrust of politics. We have talked many times about the crisis of party form, the crisis of mass parties, the crisis of intermediate bodies. I believe - but it is a political consideration that has only part to do with this - that it has been a very serious mistake of this Government, in the past months, to have helped to put in trouble, or at least to try to do this, those few intermediate bodies survived the crisis that has been consumed over all these years. It is clear that the facts of the political crisis have taken on and taken on much stronger elements and characteristics than in previous years, partly because we are once again faced with a combined arrangement. We have had, during the recent and less recent history of our Republic, the stages in which, in the face of a very acute economic crisis, there existed at least politics and in some way democratic institutions were even embarrassing the economic crisis. Conversely, we had historical stages in which a deep crisis of democratic institutions did not correspond to a deep economic crisis. Unfortunately, there is very little attention, even on the part of Parliament, to the drama of the political phase that we are experiencing. On yesterday's day I was very sorry to speak in this House's confusion, because I think that these arguments deserve to be listened to and an element of attention even when the thesis is brought in dissent from the dominant ones, from those that are the Government's thesis today. The most significant fact of the current historical phase is indeed this arranged combination, so there is a creeping economic crisis on the one hand, and a crisis of political credibility on the other, and this is likely to bring about an explosive mixture. You will say: what does this have to do with electoral law? It has a great deal to do with electoral law and also constitutional reform. If all this is true, if it is true that we are in such a deep climate of mistrust, which also concerns the crisis of the values of our democracy as we have known it and as we have helped to build it over the past few years, then it is clear that all the acts that this Parliament should carry out, when they concern the modification of both the articles of the Italian Constitution and the electoral laws, should move towards the attempt to put in place elements of participation, the enlargement of democracy and the response to the crisis that has been consumed over all these years. I do not understand how one does not see such a clear fact that, moreover, it is now the subject of study by so many sociologists and scholars of our country who have dedicated entire publications to these situations that I am trying to explain in a few minutes. The very transformation of our democracy over the years should make us think. Today we have a democracy very different from that with which we have been accustomed to confront ourselves in the past decades. It is no longer the democracy of mass parties. It is no longer the democracy of the intermediate bodies. It is no longer the democracy of participation and the possibility of implementing the articles of our Constitution. At most it is the so-called democracy of the public. I will not be talking about this because much more authoritative things have been written about it than I can say, but it is clear that even within this aspect there is the novelty that has taken place in the political path of recent years. The basic question, then, that I ask the Government, the rapporteur and my parliamentary colleagues, and that I think should be the basic question that holds up this political debate, is the following: have the reforms that have been carried out over the last twenty years, both the attempts to put hand to the Republican Constitution, and also the electoral laws that have followed and that have marked the political scene of our country for several years, mitigated this process or exacerbated it? That is the answer you have to give us, and that is the basic question that we want to ask ourselves. Over the last few years, the entire political system has developed exactly on this point. In this country, for a long time, we have had a dominant thesis, a sort of unique thought, and it is truly singular then that the unique thought that has manifested itself also on the economic aspects, as well as on the political and institutional ones, never has the counter-proof: even if it fails, even if miserably its certainties crumble before the force of events and facts, but nobody ever pays for the consequences. On the contrary, those who try to put in place an element of dissent with respect to this unique thought are labeled and treated as a sort of troublemaker who does not want to allow the country to have the development it deserves. But this is a fundamental theme in the reflection that we must make this morning and in the next few days. In all these years electoral laws have been built that, in front of the double binary governability-representation, have clearly chosen to favor the terrain of governability. Of course, it is a political choice not only in our country. This is a fundamental trend which has crossed the continent of Europe in recent years. For once, can we try to develop this basic theme not ideologically, but by making a more serious, budgetary reasoning than has happened over the past few years? Has it helped or not, in the development of our country's democracy, to have invested more on the subject of governance and less on the topic of representation? That is a fundamental political question. It is neither a provocation nor a whim of opposition. This is a point on which we must have clear political responses and open a debate. I think that this thesis, that is to say, having privileged the theme of governability, did not pay. Indeed, it has not paid even in terms of governance, given what has happened over the past few years and since, even with the electoral laws approved with a strongly majority direction, several times, during the same legislature, governments have changed. So, it is not true that governability has been privileged. There is no doubt that representation has been degraded. Moreover, it has been introduced, in the electoral laws of recent years (in particular with the so much reproached - rightly - last electoral law, the so-called Porcellum), a new element in the politics of our country, namely the bond of fidelity for which the elected must be, in some way, particularly faithful to its secretary or party leader, for the trivial reason that, otherwise, it is no longer elected or candidate. But the question is once again the following: is this element, that is, the introduction of the bond of fidelity, simply reprehensible from a moral point of view, so it is not beautiful - let us say so - that the Parliament of the Italian Republic is no longer composed of free women and men, who can fully exercise their mandate in compliance with the Constitution, until the prohibition of an imperative mandate? Or does it introduce a further element of difficulty, in the sense that Parliament has no longer been in a position to balance the strength of the leaders over the past few years? Look, colleagues, these aren't second-floor issues. These aspects concern exactly the functioning of Italian democracy and the elements of change that are introduced within a political system. I think and am very convinced that we need to put in place an element of change which is strong compared to what has happened over the past few years. However, I would like us to understand the kind of change that we want to make, and I would also like to see all the propaganda operations, including the most authoritative ones, put aside. I am going to make a statement, and I say it with great respect, if only because it concerns one of my fellow citizens and because, in any case, I have largely estimated the political initiative during his term of office as President of the Republic. But, when I happen to listen - as I think you all did - on the evening of the last year the message of the Head of State to the country, followed by millions of people, moreover, in some aspects that can be shared or even very much shared, and hear the highest political office of the country, the authoritative President of the Republic of Naples, that the oppositions have failed to oppose constitutional reform, because we must overcome the perfect bicameralism, I conclude that the Head of State, unfortunately, does not escape from this propaganda exercise. The oppositions, in fact, did not say, during the battle on constitutional reform, that they were opposed to overcoming the perfect bicameralism: they said they were in favour of overcoming the perfect bicameralism, but they also said that the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism would happen and could happen in our country much more effectively if however an elective Senate were kept alive, however different from what has been there until today. When even the highest office of the State confuses the plan and, in some way, introduces elements that make a political debate more complex, because they are trivially not true, this obviously puts in place all the elements of difficulty. Then, the political question is always the same and concerns this combined arrangement with the constitutional reform that provides for a second-level Senate. However, ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago we saw what it means to elect bodies with a second level mechanism. We elected the Provinces by this mechanism. I don't know how it went in other places in Italy and I don't want to talk about things I don't know. I can tell you how it went with me, in my city, that it is not really a village, but it is the third city in Italy and has almost three million inhabitants. The second-level election was the largest cow market we could see in the course of these years. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and the Senators Maurizio Romani and the Council]] It was an indecent and unbecoming spectacle. This alone should have been a warning to us. In short, a Parliament and also a mature Government and President of the Council can also say that they had an idea, that they had put it on the ground, that they had seen how it went and, in the face of the total failure of what happened and the absolute debasement of the most banal rules of the democratic game, they might somehow be willing to call their ideas into question. But no, because once again we are confronted with the ideology of one thought, which is evidently a difficult beast. But then the question is always the same: this combined arrangement, i.e. constitutional reform on the one hand, with the non-elective Senate and with a mechanism for which it will be the advisers who will elect among themselves and become senators, and on the other hand this electoral law with most of the blocked lists, with the majority prizes and with the barrier (then I will deal more specifically with this point), will they make the new Republican Parliament stronger or weaker than today? That's the bottom line. You have to answer me on that. You can't just get away with it by saying that you have to be quick, that there is a hurry and that you have to give a message to the country. Of course we must give a message to the country, but woe to give a message that, at the moment, perhaps satisfies the belly of the Italians, but in the medium term risks creating a gigantic damage to the functioning of the Italian Republic. I think these are very serious issues, which concern exactly the functions and role of this Parliament, as well as the ability to put in place a mechanism of weights and balances between the functions of the executive and those of the legislative power. It seems to me that these issues need great respect, deepening and seriousness. After all, they will also be professors, they will not like the President of the Council, they will be disliked, they will also be people who have always written the same things for many years. But if so many constitutionalists in this country insist on this and see such risk elements, will there be a reason? There will be a reason why the vast majority of the doctrine of Italian constitutional law expresses very serious doubts about what we are doing, namely the combined arrangement of constitutional reform, on the one hand, and electoral law, on the other. Of course, you can pretend nothing and you can consider owls, professors or others who do not want change. However, I think it takes a little more humility on this. In essence, it would be appropriate for the President-in-Office of the Council to carry out an operation to restore the truth, putting aside all the elements of propaganda that are very present in this debate. I do not believe that, with the combined arrangement of constitutional reform and electoral law, we will find an effective response to the crisis of politics and to the mistrust that goes through our country. I don't believe it at all. I think that these elements risk accentuating this type of difficulty. I think that this land is not to be underestimated, because it is clear that there is not a second time. If the fundamental mechanisms of this country's democracy fail, it will be impossible for all of us to rebuild its foundations, given what is happening, given the things that happen in this strange Italy of 2015, where a political leader of the past who goes to pay homage to a singer friend, who died, is insulted in a burning room by people raged for the strangest reasons. But that's what's happening in our country. It is happening that there is an increasing difficulty in putting in place a credibility, an element of reconstruction of a political, historical, systematic link between representatives and representatives. These are very serious matters. The underestimating of these issues is very serious, it is very wrong, and I believe it will lead not to positive political facts but to major problems. [[Call the president back.]] I just need a minute to finish. Yesterday, during the debate on the questions of constitutionality, we raised three main points of disagreement. I'll say it quick again. The first concerns the size of the majority premium. It is true that we were in a whole different period of history; it is true that many decades have passed, but I would like to remind this Parliament that when so many years ago there was a political attempt to change the electoral law by putting in place a majority prize - at the time of just under 15% and that in any case it was only achieved by exceeding 50%, so with an absolute majority - that attempt, in this country, was called a fraud law and happened what we know. Today we are far beyond the scam law, because we are talking about majority prizes that can abstractly be even higher than the number of votes we get in the elections. Also because, Mr President, it is taken for granted something that is not taken for granted, as the mayors' elections show: it is not true that the ballot certainly wins the party that arrives first. The ballot can also win the second party. Maybe it can happen that the party that arrived first took 30%, but what came second took 20 and that 20 percent became a 55 percent. And, as you will understand, you take much more than twice as many seats as you get. It seems to me that this aspect is very critical, even from the point of view of constitutional holding. I will not say anything about the barrier, because I spoke about it yesterday. I consider any kind of barrier completely incompatible with the majority premium, since the barrier serves to avoid fragmentation. But if this is resolved in terms of governability by the majority prize, it obviously has no logical political ratio and is simply a punitive measure against those who are in dissension. The basic issue remains: we do not do what the President-in-Office of the Council wants to do by law. [[Call the president back.]] If this country wants to achieve bipartitism or tripartiteism, it will come to us for political reasons and on the basis of historical processes. The historical synthesis of processes can implement this, and certainly not an electoral law. There will be no electoral law, not even the one with the highest majority prize possible on the list, which can actually create bipartitism. We say these things today and we are convinced that, over the years, a large part of this Parliament will have to agree with us. And we think that this political battle that we are fighting today is not just for us. We could be content with the fact that the barrier is lowered from 8% to 3%. It may be a reason enough to say that we got what we were interested in, but we will not make that argument. We do not mind our own garden, and not simply because in the next election we will take much more than 3%, but also because in this case it is at stake not the fate of a small party such as Left Ecology and Freedom, but that of the country. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and the senators Maurizio Romani, Orellana and Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u27	We address a greeting to some members of the association Realtà città di Terracina, in the province of Latina, who are witnessing our work. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many senators in the course of the debate and also some constitutionalists in the hearings in the Commission have been practicing historical reconstructions and have indicated obviously questionable political preferences. I find it questionable, for example, to believe that, as one of the auditors has said, the adaptation of our production system to structural changes in the market, the transition from the production of goods to the service economy, to the information society should preferably take place through a proportional electoral system. This is an undeniable preference, which, however, as the tendency to invoke or threaten ever new reasons of potential unconstitutionality, has a premise, a starting point, a subtext. The assumption is that the prize is evil and photographic representation is good, because democracy is equal proportional. The more proportion is pure, the more ideal democracy is; indeed, democracy is even possible only with the proportional system. I come back, therefore, more than twenty-five years after the collapse of the Berlin Wall and the collapse of the old political system, on an unresolved node. Today, bipolarism, the majority, personalization, direct election, all united under the label of populism, have become in a narrative that has taken root the sign of the end of democracy, the abdication of politics and other terrible catastrophes. But, since the collapse of the first Republic, allowing citizens to choose with a vote a leader and a majority has been the main source of strength and legitimacy of the whole reformist strategy on the subject of the form of government of electoral laws. Almost twenty-two years have passed since the citizens answered unequivocally the question behind the 1993 referendum: is it the parties or citizens who choose the government? And does that answer the parties or the citizens? Since 1993 we have become accustomed to directly electing the mayors, the Presidents of the Province and the Region, to say nothing of the fact that a few months ago, in the European elections, we simulated the direct election of the President of the European Commission, indicating for each party a candidate for the chair of President. The trouble is that, since then, bipolar competition has been constantly mortgaged by the persistence of the previous institutional system and by an inconsistent and fragmented structure of the two main coalitions. Since then, however, our Republic has no longer been that of before, it has already changed, and today it is unfinished, in half. And the unresolved issue is not so much about electoral law as about the form of government, that is, the quality of the form of state. It has been a long time since the premiership became the real and fundamental issue, to the point that it was made of direct popular investiture - or as if it were - the pivot around which the system rotates, without introducing any serious counterweight. It goes without saying that, with this institutional upholstery, Italy, sooner or later, will hit its head against the wall, also because - as Professor Sartori explained a while ago - the construction of a premiership system largely escapes the grip of constitutional engineering. In fact, Sartori explains, "the British or German variants of limited parliamentarism function as they only function because of the presence of favourable conditions." As we have seen in these twenty years, a "incremental" passage, in small steps, from pure parliamentaryism to that with premiership risks to stumble at every step of the way. Not by chance, Sartori believes that, in these cases, the preferred strategy is not gradualism, but rather shock therapy, because the chances of success are less in the direction of semi-parliamentaryism and greater if you jump to semi-presidency. The trouble is that many people today take note that it is not possible to practice the old form of participation in politics, but continue to believe that the particular and specific form of participation in politics and that particular political system are the best and, therefore, try to approach that model and save as many elements as possible of that experience. This attitude stems, however, from a static and conservative vision: the old party system will no longer return, not even restoring proportional and preference. The metamorphosis has already happened: in the old system citizens were made in and of the party, because they could not be entirely in and of the State. Now that the identification and belonging - to the ideology, utopia and morals of the party - are no longer there, the only viable way is to exalt the possibility and responsibility of choice, as well as the exercise of citizenship in the State. Is respect for the decision-making competence of individuals not the only possible response to a crisis of trust that is now untenable? Perhaps we should look more at the fundamental trends of society, common to all advanced countries, from the economic structure to gender equality, from the nature of the family to the individualization of values: in all advanced industrial societies, the conditions of economic prosperity achieved have changed our values. Now, with regard to the generations of the post-war period, self-expression, quality of life and individual choice have become central and this new vision of the world is accompanied by a de-enphatization of all forms of authority. In short, instead of being directed by the elite, everyone engages in activities aimed at challenging them. There will have to be a reason for this: today no one participates in politics as in the past. For this reason it is necessary to move definitively from a political conception and practice based on a declaration and a choice of belonging to those based on the responsibility of choosing for the government of the country. Having said that, of course everyone has his own electoral system in mind, as each of us has in mind his own formation of the national team. I would have preferred to do as in France: double boarding and direct election of the President. Personally, I have a strong preference for French semi-presidency, because its rules and institutions make a very significant contribution to achieving two elements: the restructuring of parties and their mode of competition and the possible formation of government coalitions, as well as empowering citizens. In France, the restructuring of the parties - just think of the UMP - had as the main flyer the competition for the Presidency of the Republic and the parties survived. I remember that the possibility of reaching an acceptable agreement between spring and summer of 2012 would have been there: the PdL had offered PD an advantageous institutional pact, i.e. an electoral law to French, in exchange for the semi-presidency to French. Some of us, even then, tried to say that change was imposed, and then things turned out the way they did. Now, however, it is not that we can go back by reopening the discussion on the best possible system in abstract for Italy: Italicum has already passed to the Chambers, so, we must try to move on with what is there, trying to improve the text and, first we do, the better; this also because, with the passage of time - and more than twenty years ago - some problems have become worse and require stronger solutions, whereas then, to illness still not so enchanted, it would have been enough much more modest remedies. Let me explain: perhaps in the 1980s, when there were the old parties, that is, robust organizations, it would have been enough to introduce a barrier threshold and constructive trust, now it is not enough. There are no such organizations and society has changed and it must also be said that, on the other hand, some progress has been made, such as the stabilisation of electoral systems and forms of government at all subnational levels (Regions, Municipalities). The fact remains, however, that the transition is still unfinished, because it is contradictory both in terms of the form of national government and in terms of the relationship between the centre and the periphery. Not to mention that things naturally change on their own and while the government is a decisive protagonist in favor of reforms, because without its protagonism vetoes would eventually prevail as it has so far happened, it must already act as if it now possessed the strength and consistency that will be given to it by the new rules. In view of this, the aim of constitutional reform is to overcome bicameralism, which leads to the loss of trust and equal voting over the laws by the Senate and the empowerment of regional legislators in the Senate. The aim of the electoral reform is twofold: to identify a clear winner who preserves us from the great permanent coalitions, which are naturally favored by fragmentation and the emergence of various populisms, and to bring back elected and elected voters respecting the stakes of the Court's ruling. The hearings held in the Commission were very useful. They gave us useful ideas to avoid mistakes, but they should not be taken for early sentences, also because the opinions of constitutionalists often differ between them and the stakes within which we can choose remain very wide. After the decision of the Constitutional Court No. 1 of 2014, the move is to accuse everything that is not shared of unconstitutionality. But that sentence, to be clear, only required a minimum threshold of votes for the award of the prize and that the blocked lists are not long. There are, of course, other consequences, but these are personal reconstructions, which are not attributable to the judgment. It would suffice to recall that the electoral laws for the House and Senate were born apart from the Constituent. I also note that with two different cards for the Chamber and Senate, even with two identical systems, even if the eighteen-year-olds also voted for the Senate, governability could not be guaranteed on principle. The voters could separate the votes, which would end up overwhelming any proportional correction. In short, we would end up constitutionalizing in fact the proportionality, a choice that was not made to the Constituent. It may be a cultural position, but it is not an obligation for the legislator, since the 1993 referendum, which I mentioned, made a choice in the diametrically opposite direction. In fact, the award to the Chamber alone does not guarantee the governability, but it encourages it in any case decisively: the winner to the Chamber would still be unachievable, it would still be the pivot of the Government. And this alone legitimizes disproportionality. For this reason, I believe that the Senate can safely approve the Italicum with the award to the Chamber alone. The electoral systems, moreover, must be assessed in relation to their objectives. I remain of the opinion that the objective of a bipolar system is the only one able to give life to a government legitimized by the electoral body, avoiding the ungovernability or the use of large coalitions not homogeneous. In the light of this objective, on the whole, I find the text approved to the House, which provides for the award of a majority award from the first round and the possible national ballot in case of failure to obtain the prize. There are, in the text of the House, some critical points that we have also highlighted in the course of the debate. I therefore find it convincing that the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, is proposing that the prize be provided not for a coalition of lists, but for the winning list. It would also be preferable to have a higher threshold for obtaining the prize, i.e. to trigger the second round only if no political force was able to reach at least 40% of the votes, thus making the transition to the second round of balloting less possible. I also agree with President Finocchiaro's proposal to introduce a single reasonable exclusion threshold. It is up to the premium to ensure governance and, therefore, it is not necessary to exclude the presence in Parliament of minor forces. On all these issues we have tabled amendments. Finally, as far as the choice of candidates is concerned, I would immediately say that I would have preferred to return to the one-name colleges. I am not persuaded to return to the vote of preference. Preferences have given bad proof, just see the regional elections and the foreign colleges. Moreover, the vote of preference requires the availability of substantial financial resources, produces current fragmentation within the parties and increases the weight of interests. Moreover, after the abolition of public funding, the restoration of the vote of preference could prove even criminal. It is not by chance a system that has long been abandoned in all advanced countries. The hypothesis of the rapporteur of the blocked capilists and the rest the use of the vote of preference can represent a useful mediation, even if not exciting. In conclusion, there is not in the proposal under discussion the direct election, which would require a constitutional revision, but with the ballot between the two coalitions or between the two parties, the leader is destined to have a direct legitimacy from the electoral body and this is a central node. The task of electoral systems in a parliamentary system, in fact, is not only to represent, but also to express a government. Representation is not an end in itself, but depends on the legitimacy to legislate and to contribute to the Government. Hence the importance, in our view, of double-shift systems, because they allow the elector to choose directly who is legitimate to govern. Finally, as a Group, we have opposed the introduction of the safeguard clause in order to put the legislation resulting from the judgment into order for two reasons. Firstly, for a constitutional reason: I find that there has been an excess of zeal, since the Court has not asked Parliament to act. The Court has not written anything like this, apart from the opinions of prominent constitutionalists. Not to mention that the presupposition of the sentence, its legitimacy lies in its immediate applicability. The rule, also following the judgment of constitutionality, was considered by the Court itself suitable to ensure the renewal of the constitutional bodies. If it were necessary then to intervene to determine where to put the line on which to write the preference, the Government can do so, also because any decree does not intervene in electoral matters, it does not intervene on the electoral formula, but only on purely technical and applicative elements, to say it with the words used by the Court. Secondly, we have voted against it for a political reason. Perfecting the subordinate means voting with the subordinate. I remain of the opinion that the return to the proportional system is not desirable; rest of the opinion that the task of electoral systems in a parliamentary system is not, as I said before, only to represent, but also to express a government. 10:47 a.m. (Maran followed). Another question is to maintain a relationship with constitutional reform, so it is reasonable to envisage a date after its completion for the entry into force of the electoral law, as was pointed out yesterday by the Government, which can be easily done with an amendment. It would be desirable for the debate on electoral formulas to come back to be based on the comparison between reasons of institutional policy and not on a sort of contest to those who shoot the biggest in terms of constitutional legitimacy, because it is up to Parliament to weigh the demands that come from society and to find a balance between equally legitimate options, assuming responsibility, which is precisely political. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u29	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of reforms and electoral law must be seen as a whole, given that we have long been looking for a process of reform and change that fully and completely involves our institutions. It is useless to remember in this House the attempts - alas failed, certainly not because of the center-right, Forza Italia or Silvio Berlusconi - to make a broad and organic constitutional reform, such as the one approved in 2006 after a long and wide-ranging debate, reform that unfortunately did not come into force because legitimately those who played the worst, so much better promoted a referendum, provided for in the Constitution, which had a result - without quorum - hostile to that reform, painted in a not clear and incorrect way, playing everything on the subject of devolution. It was a text in which they dealt better with the rules still in force and in the process of correcting Title V of the Constitution, also introducing the election of the Premier and other very important provisions, including the reduction in the number of parliamentarians, which would have been in force for many years. So the reformist intent of the center-right is clear and sanctioned by the facts. The electoral laws, which we are discussing today, are never perfect. All electoral laws contain their own imperfection. We have often seen in Italy evoke this or that model, but then the reality of the facts and history have shown how all models could be fallacious. For a long time the apology has been made for the German system and the chancellorate, but then we have seen that in Germany, even at this stage of German life, although with a strong consensus to the relative majority party of Merkel, the CDU, could not form the Government alone because - I repeat - although having a consensus of 40%, it did not have sufficient seats and had to give rise to a large coalition with the alternative and opposing party, the Social Democratic Party. However, the French double-shift system, which has also been praised, at other stages of Italian political life, is a system that applies both to the election of the President of the Republic and to the election of Parliament, and has seen several times the coexistence of Presidents of an orientation and of a Parliament with a different majority. So even that system didn't actually guarantee perfection. The American system, which in many ways, at least with regard to the direct and popular election of the President and the important powers that the President of the United States has, likes many of us, with regard to the election of the Congress, which takes place at different times (with the mid-term elections, which take place in the middle of the President's term), sees, even at this moment, a democratic President and a Congress, in its two branches, with a republican majority. So, the perfect system doesn't exist. Otherwise, it would be enough to send an email to all the parliaments of the world and everyone could implement it and insert it into their order. We don't have a perfect system. What we are going through probably has its imperfections, and I want to immediately reveal one in this historical phase. Given, therefore, that perfection is not of this world, we share the need for a reform process in which, especially here in the Senate, without the role of Forza Italia of reforms they do not make it: neither electoral nor constitutional. When the first reading of the reform of the Constitution, which is under consideration by the House, was voted on 8 August last, the votes of our Group were decisive. That reform was partial, as it did not provide for the direct election of the Premier; therefore, the constitutional reform made by the centre-right majority in 2006 was much better. Nevertheless, we believe that a partial change is better than staticism and immobility. That is why we approved that constitutional reform, although it did not coincide with our broad programmes and objectives. It is better a partial reform, in fact, than to be counted in the front of immobilism. Rather, it is the left that should have had more courage. So we were decisive on the electoral law on 20 December last, in order to maintain the quorum in this House, and we are doing so in continuing this debate. However, we would like there to be a full awareness, especially on the part of the party that has more seats in this legislature, but not self-sufficiency in the two branches of Parliament, that is, the Democratic Party, also with respect to the agreements made in the light of the sun to give the country a new electoral law (which is an obligation, given the decision of the Constitutional Court) and to give Italy a constitutional reform. And here we are late, because we had approved a much broader and courageous reform but then, due to the events foreseen in the referendum Constitution, that reform did not come into force. The comparison must be clear and fair. For example, I have a different view of the coalition prize than my colleagues who have spoken. We believe that the formula voted (not by chance) by the House of Deputies, which provides for the coalition prize and not the list, is better. I am a convinced bipolarist and I would like a definitive statement of bipolarism, which can only come with presidentialism, which in constitutional reform is not contained, because the left does not have the courage to make this choice that Forza Italia has indicated. Bipartitism would be better, too. And this country had approached, in times not far away, even a biparty tendency. I remember the 2008 elections, won by the center-right with a coalition, but with the PdL, then the result of the convergence of various pre-existing political formations, which reached a very high percentage. The Democratic Party, which lost those elections, had more than 40%. After that, the political events, which I do not have time here to rebuild, and perhaps this is not even the seat, especially in the center-right have determined a backwardness with respect to the story of the PdL, which no longer exists today. The various parties have been reformed and there have been divisions. On the left, the PD's difficulties have been at least apparently overcome, to the point that the PD is proposing, boldly, the list prize, modifying the content of the agreement voted in the House of Deputies. Moreover, there is no modified text in this House, because the Commission has not been able to amend it; there is no mandate to the rapporteur. So, basically, we are starting from the text of the House of Deputies, which provides for the coalition award. And we believe that today, taking note of the historical reality, it would be wiser to go in that direction. Then, in Italy, the evolution of politics depends not only on the rules: the rules, in fact, can push to an evolution of the political system - there is no doubt - but then it is the policy that must build great aggregations. I hope that bipolarism will regain strength and that, even, Italy will come to a bipartitism on the model that many other countries have. Especially in the United States that model has been consolidated with an alternation and, even, with a coexistence - I remember before - between one President of one orientation and another's Congress. From this point of view, Italy is struggling with the difficulties of politics. On our side, on this side of the hemicycle, it is clear that the problem is all political of the divisions that have been there. However, I believe that, precisely for this reason, a system such as the one voted in the House on the coalition prize can make the system as it is today more contestable. In fact, obviously, for a democratic and political process, the various identities and souls preferred to find various parties, although I believe this to be a mistake and a backwardness compared to the positive evolution of a few years ago. I therefore hope that, above all on this point, there will be a reflection in this House, recalling that the coalition prize has been provided for in the House. On these reforms there have been agreements, which have taken place in the light of the sun and for which we assume responsibility. There is no secret pact: on constitutional reforms we have voted decisively in the Senate House because, at least in part, they go in a desirable direction. We would have liked more, but the fact that he did less did not lead us on a front of hostility. On the electoral law it is the left, the Democratic Party and Matteo Renzi who have changed their minds on 10, 15, 20 points, continuously, perhaps exalted by polls and momentary successes. I would ask for caution, because then the data change rapidly, and I believe that the indices of these days show this, even to the detriment of the President of the Council and his party. So we - as Senator Bruno said yesterday - on the issue of the coalition award will reiterate our indication. I shall conclude because I believe that my time is running out. As far as preferences are concerned, I am not culturally and politically opposed to preferences, but the facts of the news must be meditated and seen. Let us look at the last Roman events (I am not referring only to those already known, where it is clear that the interweaving between preferences, votes and various traffics has emerged in all its evidence). I was very impressed that even a character not overwhelmed by the events of the capital mob, Zingaretti (the current President of the Region), during the 2004 European elections took advantage of the epistolary consent of Buzzi, the head of the red cooperative "29 June," which is among the main protagonists of the Roman scandals. So even the apparently untouched characters compared to those events have drawn to favorable votes, in support of environments that have used preference (which, by itself, would not be a sinful choice) in an improper way, transforming the vote of preference (which - I repeat - in principle is not that I consider a sin or a deviation), into a vote of exchange, as many have said. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Gasparri. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). I have concluded, Madam President. The evidence suggests that the way of voting is not desirable today. There are no conditions because it rewards merit: it would reward more the Buzzi of the various cooperatives, than the deserving of consent. As for the issues I have mentioned, on the coalition prize, our Group invites everyone to reflect and will not give up this instance and this proposal, which it will support with conviction, consistent with the text that came from Montecitorio to Palazzo Madama. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u31	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u32	Madam President, honestly, we are wondering how we are working. If you are allowed to take a small step back, I would remind you that we have just adopted the Stability Act and no one in this House can be sure which law you voted for. Let us remember the references, the doubled paragraphs, the references to non-existent rules, which, with perhaps excessive ease, were said to have been settled in the framework of technical coordination. Colleagues, if there is a rule that is not perfect, that makes a reference to something that does not exist, technical coordination means rewriting the norm, including what is considered most appropriate, without Parliament being able to know the exact extent of the norm. Let us take another step, on a subject that has also been addressed this morning: tax delegation and Article 19-a. But how is this government working? It has decided that some behavior, administratively incorrect, can be decriminalized, but can be healed with a payment. Since, exceeding a certain threshold of tax evasion also triggers the criminal penalty, the threshold for the criminal penalty is raised to a slightly higher level, establishing that every group, every enterprise and every subject, within 3% of its tax base, can commit improper errors or deductions, also given the lack of clarity of the tax system. So it is established that, below that 3%, there is an area - I would say almost a wing - within which you can heal. Well, the government has taken a position, and then the President of the Council has noticed that this rule - as it happens - affects a person and, in particular, a sanction that is already serving the President of an adverse political group - if we want - to the Democratic Party. 11:02 a.m. (Follow DIVINE). At this point the measure is withdrawn. Without dusting up legal reminiscences, the legislator should work on the rules in general and abstract terms; not photography rules or norms ad personam are allowed, but - lively God! - not even contra personam rules. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] The moment I realize that that rule helps someone, because it is a political enemy of mine, that rule is no longer good: it is good in the general sense, but it is no longer good, if it goes to favor a person who is not welcome. Let us go back: can we continue to legislate in this way? We come to the present day: who can be sure of what rule we are discussing in general? We are talking about a text we have in our hands, but we already know that it is not the final text, or that it will not be the final text. The electoral law and constitutional reform are perhaps the two most important reform rules. Well, after having emphasized them and charged them with importance, the Commission is not even able to bring its own text to this House and we do not understand the pruderia of the President, we find ourselves having to speed up the time. If then the norm does not come into force before 2016 - if this really was the will - what sense does it make to make the races to approve again a bad norm, like the examples I have just mentioned, of norms made only to meet deadlines, that they have no sense and no ratio? We do not have the rapporteurs on an institutionally important measure. But is nothing of interest to this House at this point? I listened to Senator Mucchetti's speech: the majority also saw a sense of discomfort in reasoning and dealing with the work in this way. You can't work like that. Who in the majority - I wonder - can say with certainty that they know what the rules will be coming out of this House? Who knows the Nazarene covenant? We have read and reread about it, but who knows him beyond the two subscribers? Is there a deal, a verbal agreement, written down? Who knows him? What will be the rules, the key points on which this electoral reform will be based. I think we have to play in the dark. Let's try it. We talk, maybe you get it right, but look that the darkness reminds us of so many games of chance, while the legislator should operate with completely different systems, much more transparent. We should at least understand each other; opinions may be different, we may clash, but we must know what we are talking about. The only thing that is certain is that we have a text in hand that is the result of a legal elaboration. I am a little ashamed that in a country with a refined legal culture and with a parliamentary history of the oldest we must have the electoral law imposed by magistrates. Yes, because if we could not make an electoral law, in the event of the dissolution of Parliament, the only electoral law would be the one made by the judges, the famous Consultellum. Is it possible that judges in this country decide who lives, who dies, when they have to retire and even the electoral law? All this because Parliament suffers and does not even have the courage to invoke to itself the role that belongs to it: the magistrates must think about settling disputes, the political issues left to the parliamentary classrooms. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We will then have, within the districts, multi-member colleges, and probably the number of seats to be allocated within each multi-annual college will go from three to six: that is what the Consulta said. The majority prize for us today is still 37 percent, that is, the written one, but we know that the agreements are different: we can reach 39, maybe 40%. But will the prize be coalition or will it go to the list? This seems to be what the Premier wants right now, perhaps even making the other component of the Nazarene pact angry (because it seems to me that Forza Italia doesn't really agree on the prize on the list). Are the thresholds written in the text? Will it be 4.5% for coalition parties, 8 percent for those who compete on their own and 12 for coalitions or will they be brought much lower on the basis of the latest agreements that are being read? The newspapers, however, lively God, do not write texts; they write every day and the next day you can write exactly opposite things. Is that gonna be 3 percent anyway? Probably, because if Forza Italia goes off, the majority, or rather the PD, will need some other support - let's call them without offense - of the minor forces, and if clearly you want the support of a minor force you cannot predict a threshold that would decapitate it. Therefore, as a matter of necessity, these thresholds must be lowered. So, does it still make sense to talk about a law that sets limits, that selects, that scream, that guarantees governability when we return to proliferation again because maybe in the end we will reach two percent as a threshold of survival? Again, can we make fun of the Italians? You PD have promised - and the Premier continues to say so every day - that there will be preferences. So, you don't need to go to analysts or technicians or mathematicians, but make the small threesome hypothesis: where will the preferences with the blocked capilists be? If today we had an electoral figure based on the current poll, on a college of three seats the first would be assigned to the PD, the second to the center-right and the third probably to the 5 Star Movement, but they would only be capilist. Preference therefore does not exist. This will also be the case for the four-seat colleges: they would go to the major forces, but none with preference. Preference is a pretext, to pretend to accept what the Italians say: we would like to count, we would still be wrong, but at least we would like to choose our ruling class. The answer given this way is: great, you will have the chance to choose it. In fact, an electoral law is being built where virtually nothing will be chosen. Only in the five- or six-seat colleges will the second vote be taken on the list, the Democratic Party and some other political force, practically with preference, but two-thirds of Parliament will be appointed. If you do not say so, we must say so throughout the election campaign: you are mocking the Italians. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] You turn it around by saying that preference all in all lends itself to games, because preferences impose expensive campaigns, the latter need funders and funders can play and whatever. Everything you want, but either you take a path by saying to the Italians "voted," wrong, but vote for you" or we say to them: We don't give a damn what you think, vote for the parties, and then we'll manage your delegation at will. Either way, but you can't fool the voters by saying 'choose you', while in fact they choose parties. I shall begin by finishing my speech. The ratio would like, if this Government has the lead to stagger a series of reforms, to establish exactly the new balances, the new balances. What does the Senate do? First let's do it, this Senate reform and decide what the House will do, what the Chamber's powers will be; then let's establish the best electoral law for a basically monocameral system. Only one House expresses confidence in the Government and gives political direction, while the other will be a Chamber of Regions. But how do we reverse and say "within this month we want the electoral law"? It also cataphasizes a rationality of operation of the path. More like that. Can we give - because the electoral law at this point is a revolver - a loaded gun to a President-in-Office of the Council like Renzi who proved very little of reliability, just because he said to be serene because we will not go to elections until 2016? We can't feel it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Finally, since the Italians all in all, even though we must commit ourselves to these issues, do not live by electoral law but - alas - eat anything else, and at this moment they are very, very concerned about safety and what is happening in France, but also in half of Europe. We would like Minister Alfano, but also our Premier, to reassure us on the security front, because we also know how to live with a few euros less in our pockets, but we would like to sleep with both eyes closed. What happens in France is perhaps what would happen in Italy, because Alfano a few months ago in this House said that there are 48 subjects related to the qaedist system or, in any case, ISIS monitored by the Services in Italy. The French who combined yesterday's massacre were also monitored by the French Services. Well, perhaps it is not enough to monitor, here we must act in another way. I brought this pencil into my pocket following the directions of an Italian cartoonist, who said that we cannot give up what is our story. We have waged great battles for freedom, which is freedom of thought and freedom of expression, and we cannot succumb because a system that is not respectful of these freedoms forces us almost to change our lives. And we'd like some assurances from the government about that. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u33	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u34	11.14 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u35	Madam President, it has been nine years since one of the worst electoral laws that Italy has had in recent years has been fired. That is why the then Minister for Institutional Reforms called it a disgrace. I'm talking about the Porcellum. In recent years this law has produced effects, even monsters in previous governments, a bad management of politics and a political class composed of appointed party secretariats. All this has led to the removal of citizens from the polling stations because this type of policy has led to the idea of being unbelievable both within the country and in Europe. Because of this progressive departure no one wanted to continue formalizing the appointments of friends of friends, lovers, lawyers more or less in vogue, real criminals, sometimes, seated in the high places to help this or that party and then be able to facilitate the entry of this or that character. This is an endless story because it continues in time. Today we are in this House looking at a ghost text because there is actually no actual text. The worst thing, however, is that we are in the middle of a negotiation: the one between the right and the left to decide whether or not to grant a discount on the sentence, that is to say, the possibility of returning to Parliament, to someone who was removed for the right reason in November 2013. In fact, so nothing has changed because after nine years we find ourselves with the same situations that I repeat from time to time. What, then, does one want to do today for the good of this country? Do we want to give Italian citizens back dignity? Do we want to bring this country back to legal status? It seems to me that we do not want to achieve this objective. We only want to obtain the possibility of including in a legislative decree a rule made specifically for the return of the condemned person who has been removed. A delegation of work that can give Italy and its citizens a dignity? No. We want to bring the country back under that aura that has actually plunged us into a abyss, go back in time, that has led to a recession in all fields and that has made us distinguish in Europe and the world as a people of mobsters and people unable to carry forward a country; a country headed by someone who, over time, has not been able to restore dignity to all the people who insist on Italian soil. So, nothing has actually changed. The worst thing is that we try to make changes to an electoral law that has already been declared unconstitutional. So we try to move forward by trying to put on patches, which are actually of no use; they are only used to waste time and to give the opportunity to reach agreement between one party and the other. This agreement is essential for them, because it allows us to define who has the most power and who has the least power. All this always to the detriment of those who in the meantime die of hunger, has lost their job, can not go on, still can not stand the cost of living. This is irresponsible. We have always said this: we do not want to be complicit in this state and we do not recognize ourselves in this state, because, if this state does not give the opportunity to live, it means that this type of state has failed. It cannot therefore claim that the cross that will be put in the ballot box can be a weighted vote; it cannot put the citizen in a position to be forced, with 50 euros under his nose, to go to vote not out of conviction, but out of compulsion. This is what we continue to see, and this, on the part of those politicians who continue to perpetrate this situation, is an irresponsible behaviour (and I do not use any other term, because there would be so many terms to use). So I was saying that today we are being called upon to discuss an electoral law in this House which should actually take into account, as a guiding light, the directions and decisions of the Council. Such indications were to be the starting point from which not to pass. The goal, however, is nothing more than to stand up to a former delinquent senator. We have an electoral law. Is italicum? No, we in the 5 Star Movement don't have this electoral law and we don't identify with this electoral law. We have proposed an electoral law; the Italicum is yours, the Italicum is the one that continues to perpetrate the incursions, the deceptions, the negotiations and the negotiations. Italicum is based, and that is why we do not agree, on the principle of governability. Those with 40% of the votes rule; one minute after the election results the name of the winner is already known and 55 percent of the seats of the House would be attributed. Otherwise, it is called a ballot between the two most supported coalitions. Yes, it is right to hope for the governability of the country, but it is not right to end up in the mechanism of "revotism," typical of recent years. But in this case one forgets the representativeness, which is the prince ingredient that must be accompanied to governability. Also in Italicum the majority prize goes to the most supported list and no longer to the coalition, as the center-right would like. The majority prize becomes a tool to focus all parties and satellite lists in the moderate Berlusconian or renziana area (so much the same). This erases any possible difference. In this way they think they will erase any problems. Let's do the math. The majority prize, to date, would be due precisely to the two parties that have contracted the Nazarene pact: Forza Italia and the Democratic Party. So there is no room for others, especially for children, there is no room for those who do not make politics simple. For us, politics is quite different from what Prime Minister Renzi means. We are not interested in having the chair, we are interested in this country being governed in legality. For this purpose, we have a very precise programme. It is clear that the majority prize to the list or coalition remains unconstitutional if not accompanied by a threshold proportional to the prize to be received. This also explains the unjust resistance of the Premier to submit this regulatory product to the preliminary examination of the Constitutional Court. Those who claim that they have never seen such a respectful law of the anti Porcellum sentence cannot have this retrospect. And yet, what happens? Some critical notes on the subject are not pleasing to Mr. Renzi (I don't know, for skirmishing?). There is the ballet of the barrier thresholds, whose percentage changes how time and survey change and, at this point, I would also like to say on the basis of the time and I wonder what time it was set at 3% at national level. The main contradiction of this law of yours is one: it concerns only the Chamber of Deputies. In addition, he clings to a sequel of obvious facts that are not such: it seems obvious the approval of the constitutional reform at first reading; taken for granted the disappearance of the Senate as an elective branch of Parliament; also taken for granted is the approval of a provision that applies only to an elective Chamber, compared to the two currently existing. The decision of the Constitutional Court No. 1 of 2014 clearly established that the Chambers are constitutionally necessary and indefectible bodies and cannot at any time cease to exist or lose the ability to act. Then there is the principle of closeness to the electorate, which Italicum does not take into account. The presence of 100 colleges comparable in geographical dimensions to the present Provinces. The leader is predetermined, i.e. indicated on the ballot. The voter again has very narrow margin of choice and his vote of preference is emptied. Thus, the voter loses more and more the ability to be such. This is a question that hides the fact of having 100 colleges and as many as 100 faithful to the head. As I mentioned earlier, we have made an electoral law, the Democrat, which guarantees the possibility for all political forces to be in the field, to be present and to represent the will of all citizens. In this law of ours there is no appointed, so no party leader decides and it is the citizens who have the freedom to choose who to send to represent them. Usually, the citizen should do so in complete freedom and not in a forced manner. With the Democrat we arrive at a Parliament of elected, uncondemned and in line with one of the founding principles of the 5 Star Movement: having a clean Parliament. It is a principle based on a popular initiative law, which we have already presented in 2007 and which you, of course, have dropped because our popular initiative gave honest people the opportunity to enter here. For us entry in here must not be allowed to those who have trouble with righteousness; for you it is different and you are demonstrating it. A year and a half ago, in April 2013, we also presented a bill No. 452, at the first signature of Senator Crimi. It concerned the criteria of candidacy, the cases of revocation and revocation of the mandate and the expression of the vote of preference by the voters. Any form of clientele degeneration or even vaguely corruptive in the selection of candidates cannot and must not continue to find ground in our country. This was our intention and it is still, just as there should still be no vote of exchange, no interference of criminal organizations, no influence in the clientele on duty. These are our basic principles. We, therefore, have shown that there is an alternative. Instead, you insist on conducting your own game, conducting an endless negotiation, and in all this you are not realizing that, in reality, you do nothing more than make people understand that you are not representative, that you cannot govern this country in this way, that you cannot go endlessly. You must understand - we hope you will understand this sooner or later - that honesty is the only thing this country needs, that transparency is the fundamental thing and that at this moment this country must rise again. I hope that sooner or later you will understand these concepts and put them into practice; otherwise you will not have to be surprised if people do not vote for you anymore. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lo Giudice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u37	Madam President, the electoral law we are about to vote is not just any law, it is one of the moments when we rewrite the rules of the game to provide lasting solutions to important problems. There are several issues that this law will have to answer and one of them is certainly governability. From this point of view, the achievement of the objective of guaranteeing stability to government action, necessary to support a process of reform and give international credibility to our country, is definitely contained within this bill, even with effective solutions. Italicum 2.0, as the text approved by the House has been defined, with the amendments made by the rapporteur in the Committee on Institutional Affairs here in the Senate, certainly goes in the direction of ensuring governance. The 40% majority prize - higher than the initial threshold, set at 37, necessary for access to the prize - and the guarantee of a double turn, in the event that none of the lists achieve that objective, surely give a response to the objections raised by the Constitutional Court's ruling and go in the direction of ensuring stability to the Government. On this front, the objective can be considered effectively achieved, but there is another important aspect, which is perhaps the subject on which there is the greater expectation of public opinion than the amendment of the electoral law that we are discussing, namely the issue of participation. We in the Democratic Party presented ourselves to the voters by ensuring that we would no longer support an electoral law that - as it had been for the so-called Calderoli - expropriated citizens of the possibility of choosing their own representatives directly, giving this prerogative to party secretariats: this was an important factor in relation to the crisis of political credibility and the participation of the electorate in decision-making processes. Those who speak come from a politically devastating experience, as was the rate of abstention in the regional elections in Emilia-Romagna, a land where there is usually a strong adherence to public affairs and a strong sense of belonging and participation in politics, but where on this occasion, a few weeks ago, he went to vote just over 37% of voters. It is a shocking figure, which can be read in various ways (and I certainly do not want to be here to analyse the vote at the regional elections), but on one point, even beyond the interpretative nuances of the causes of that abstentionism, we can all agree: that vote in Emilia-Romagna - as happened also in Calabria - marks an element of distance and gives a signal of disaffection, as well as a warning to politics so that the conditions of a new belonging and a new sense of participation and community between politics and citizens can be created. At a time when we are called to rewrite the rules of the game, we cannot fail to take into account the need for the rules to invite people to play and throw at them the sense of a struggle, that of participation, which, however, corresponds to the achievement of an objective, i.e. effective participation in the decision-making mechanism. From this point of view, the proposal we are discussing is still inadequate, and I am referring in particular to the question of preferences. The Italicum was presented as a mix between two positive elements, namely the possibility of expressing a preference, as in the old proportional electoral law, and that of choosing an identifiable candidate - the college candidate, as it is defined - provided for by Mattarellum. A scenario of this kind does not take into account two important elements. The first concerns the fact that the colleges provided for by Mattarellum were 475 and not 100, which means that each college corresponded to a small or medium-small city or to a neighborhood of a large city, where the college candidate indicated directly on the card, without the possibility for the citizen to choose through preferences, having to choose the candidate proposed by the party he thought to vote, could actually be found at home. Now, the 100 blocked capilists provided by Italicum are definitely recognizable, if ten would be even more so, but they are definitely not "contactable," they are not proximity candidates that can be found in the market. During the election campaign you can see more easily on television than on the streets of your neighborhood and your city. The second question relates to the fact that although it will be possible to express preferences, the relationship between the elected ones chosen through preferences and those who will be elected because indicated as a leader blocked by the parties is highly disproportionate. In fact, we risk having a Parliament in which elected Members with preferences reach 240 out of 630 totals, which is not even 40% of the total number of elected Members, and this means that the final result would once again be a highly majority parliament, a single chamber whose majority also has the possibility of electing the President of the Republic, mostly made up of nominations. We are in time to remedy these distortions, which remain in the text we are debating, and from this point of view the fact that the text has come from the Commission in an open way can also make sure that, through a real debate in this House these days, it is changed for the better. Let's get past the idea of the stranded capilists. We open up to competition with preferences and to all candidates in really short lists in multi-name colleges. We maintain the circumscription lists provided for by Mattarellum, including here the preferences and requiring the parties to choose candidates through a primary selection to establish the order of the list as well as to ensure the alternation of gender. We avoid the proliferation of multiple nominations, which deceive the voter by having him vote for a civet-name, a candidate who will then decide who to surrender his seat. We insert strict criteria of ineligibility into the law, which finally resolve the issue of conflict of interest. Let us, in short, hand over to the sovereign people an instrument for which it is actually the voters and not the secretariats of the parties, once again, to choose the representatives of the people. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Liuzzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u38	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u39	Madam President, as is necessary in this Senate, the general discussions are more for the purpose of consuming a liturgy. In fact, I have noticed that whenever we are engaged in discussions such as constitutional reform, electoral reform or the law of stability, the speakers speak of empty chairs. The question then arises what it is for, if not to pass on to posterity, if ever someone wanted in the future to entrust to posterity the vision of our saying, subtracting it from the devouring criticism of mice in the basements or attics of the Madama palace. But let's come to what interests us most here. First of all, I must point out that once again the distinctive element of this Government is putting us in front of a discussion about a text that is even absent or that compared to what comes from the other House is already in itself, according to the press news and what authoritative politicians and commentators feed public opinion, in proudly modified and modifiable on a series of hypotheses that do not give to those who have to intervene within the institutions responsible for approving the law any point of reference. So, as I said before, the feeling that we have at the moment is to play an ancillary role and to be used a little bit for this appearance and therefore the final decisions on the text that will then be adopted by Parliament's classrooms are taken in a context that is outside the proper and natural seat of Parliament. Yet I am quite old - alas - to remember that one of the founding elements of the second Republic - with the introduction of the season of change wanted by Mariotto Segni - was to subtract politics from the liturgies of the corridors, from the Camarilles and that, in effect, the second Republic would be characterized by the direct election of the mayors, as well as the fact that voters voted on a name and on a program that was already anticipated before, thus weakening the discretion of political secretariats and the transformation that from Augustine Depretis onwards have always characterized the action of many politicians. After twenty-five years of experimentation of this kind we find ourselves in exactly the same pastries, in the same camarilles, in the same condition of having to discuss facts that will be or have already been modified outside the parliamentary classrooms. I believe that this is a non-pious premise and that it is also the sign of the times, as a sign of the times, that we are facing the discussion of an electoral law when we have not yet completed the constitutional reform, as if the procedures for the election of Members of Parliament could be disconnected and disarticulated with respect to an organizational scheme of the State and the institutions: I refer to the possible direct election of the Head of State, to the possible obligation to indicate on the card the name of the President of the Council, that is to say to the series of guarantees that make substantial the democracy that, in my opinion, from Athens onwards, has always consisted in the power of the people to choose the rulers. When in the fifth century before Christ the Greeks defined and organized the concept of democracy, they used the term "sympathetic" μέσοη, "in the middle," I participate with those who take the decision. If those who take decisions are not a direct expression of the will of the people, we are faced with a scathing of democracy, a legislative infancy that breaks the ethical link between those who represent democracy in Parliament and those who have to determine it. In a post-industrial society, already weakened by the crisis in itself, a liquid society, as the sociologists say, in which there is a great deal of carelessness compared to a policy that maintains and preserves the cumbersomeness of the alembics and the laws that allow few intimates to determine the results of the composition of a Parliament, we are faced with a disaffection towards politics and the institutions that turn into abstentionism. A great economist and a great politician, Luigi Einaudi, wrote articles, then collected in a book entitled "Predicts useless". So, it's old stuff that we preach unnecessarily. Each one of us, however, must do as the hummingbird who, having set fire to the forest, was flying between the lake and the forest, and to those who asked him what he could solve, the hummingbird replied: I bring my drop of water and do my duty. The rest, do it if you have the opportunity to do more. We're parliamentarians. So, let us speak and manifest, even unnecessarily, our free thinking. Election rules therefore disengaged from a constitutional architecture. Rules that serve to elect a Parliament, but without knowing whether the majority will stand or whether we are tired of the majority. Because the majority has clear choices in itself, such as greater determination and greater power in the hands of those who govern, who assume responsibility for themselves. In the oval study of the White House is posted a writing behind the shoulders of the President of the United States of America, which is iconic. The inscription reads: "The discharge of the barrel ends here." When will we place this cartel behind the President of the Council and the President of the Republic? This could be done if, in the draft constitutional reform, we had foreseen, as compensation between the powers, to emphasize the need for an Executive that assumes over itself the power of the decisions and the responsibility of the same through the direct election of the President of the Republic or with the binding indication of the President of the Council on the ballot, because of the forces that intend to support that government program. Therefore, we are chiseling here a particular one, but we do not have a comprehensive picture of the measures that we will be called upon to implement and since I am not endowed with particular acumen, I wonder why I understand these measures and cannot understand others. Obviously, the others know these measures very well, but they do not want to implement them. The problem is that behind every proposal there is an unconfessible and unconfessed design that, in the case of Italicum, is to reperpetrate the season of the nominations. It is clear, then, that this season was not only negative because I as a Member of Parliament, both a Member and a Senator, lived in a context in which clientelism, amoral familyism, the do ut des between the elect and the elector, was very widespread: because there were social and economic conditions, and because there was an atavistic subdiction to demand that the State solve its problems. And then I didn't have any more pityers or customers coming close to me, because I wasn't an expression of these people's preference. However, I say with great humility that, if the political and parliamentary genius must be the one that I have seen, in terms of courtiers and invertebrates, of people who remain silent in front of everything because they think that the head should give him back the chair, in this case through the comfortable place of leader, then I prefer the democracy of the penitents, of the customers and of the policemen. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] Because, however, it is a democracy in which the people choose. I do not believe - I tell my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement - that there is a regime in which society is pure and chaste and politics is rotten and destructive, because the elected and the electorate resemble each other. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] I never understood if someone was born before asking the politician or the politician who offers something to be voted on (but we will do these speeches elsewhere). Therefore, I do not believe in a bountifully chaste and pure society and a policy that is negatively corrupt and prone to corruption, because they are both expressions of a mindset and a way of being. As for Italicum, I do not go into detail because I do not know what the final text should be on which I will have to or should be given later. I'm just making a general point. You want to reperpetrate the season of the nominations. What is the power of parties? What is today the power of the people who, from right to left, those parties, without exclusion, represent in Italy? In the ability of the dominus to choose candidates and, therefore, to choose the elect. Do you want to repeat this season? You have a hundred ways to do this, with the lists blocked and with this fetenzia; I am Neapolitan and I do not get another term to use when I think that 100 parliamentarians are appointed and the rest have to sweat it with the votes of preference, for the benefit of this class of weeds that are the designated capilists, and that this belongs only to parties that take more than 20% (in other cases there is just the sublimation of a caste, because they will be only the first indicated on the lists to be elected). So we're moving on. Let's go ahead and do what? It's a retrology. What's my behindology? It is that (always entrusting it to the devouring criticism of the mice of this intervention that will be synographed) that someone has agreed with someone else in a pactum sceleris that is the following: you will command for the next twenty years and I will facilitate you to do so; for the next twenty years God will like to protect legitimate interests and expectations of a practical nature, so we will agree to go ahead and we will manage Italy from the point of view of this pact that nobody knows, but of which everyone speaks. In short, I will not vote for laws that do not foresee the direct choice of the parliamentarians; I will not vote for laws that do not give the guarantee, not for us to keep the chair for a few more months, but that Italicum is not the gun in the hands of those who want to take us boldly to vote, because it wants to consolidate an advantage that in a few months, under the incipient crisis and under the landslide of promises and words that are not nouned and not kept, would cause it to fall in the consensus of public opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please finish Senator D'Anna. D'ANNA (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)). We therefore vote on a clause which makes it clear that, if the parliamentary term is to be dissolved in advance, we will be called upon to vote with the Consultellum and with the preferences. [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)]] and FI-PdL XVII and Senator Candiani). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Campanella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in our Constitution, in Article 1, it is written that sovereignty belongs to the people, who exercise it in the forms and within the limits of the Constitution. In this speech I would like to call for a reflection on the dichotomy between governability and representativeness, which has been in front of us for a few years, and that we are trying to resolve with this new electoral law. I want to ask everyone a question: do we just need a government that decides, even if the action of this government does not go in the sense of the will of the people? Since I was interested in politics, I have heard two things repeated many times, as a well-established reality, which have always left me puzzled: perhaps they contain in themselves a large part of the evil of political action. The first is that in order to be a statesman you have to know how to make unpopular choices and the other is that the government must be able to decide without impaling itself in the parliamentary swamp. These considerations exude a clear anti-popular feeling and an idea of the people as a flock to be led by an enlightened minority. Then, to see, the very concept of enlightened minority is the self-representation of a caste. Therefore, the people would become a mass to be manipulated, presenting them with manipulated, constructed, modified and shaped realities ad usum regis, according to the usefulness of those who govern. A people, therefore, uninformed, perhaps to be blanded, when not to be bought, with promises of which you cannot or do not want to verify the feasibility before the elections, because then, acquired the votes, you do what you think is appropriate, detached from any political commitment, that is not the very concrete one to stabilize your power or to preserve the positions acquired. An illusory people, who believe that they decide who governs, putting aside the fact that the terms of the choice that is proposed to them are already pre-arranged - without which it can in any way affect - by a system that leaves nothing to chance and even less to the people. Finally, what do voters decide when they are proposed, with the majority system, candidate A or candidate B? These candidates to govern are not even decided by the body of parties, because we all know how much the parties suffer from the deep shortcomings of democratic life within themselves. Now it has been possible to make the thesis that the parliamentary system and the proportional system of election, which is what favours and highlights the virtues and strength of Parliament, to have ruined the Italian socio-political system; perhaps, it is said, it represents even more faithfully the composition of the electoral body, but the proportional system prevents the exchange of political staff and in addition favours its incrustations and corruption. In the meantime, however, I would like to invite you to consider that we have managed with majority systems to obtain the much-sighed alternation, but we always have politicians from the long career, and in some cases the brevity of the career perspective has exploded a sort of voracity that we read constantly in the newspapers. In the overall political proposal of the Government, the combined electoral reform, the so-called Italicum, and constitutional reform would give Italy to a system of government that has also shown flaws in the administration of the cities: an Executive that governs little annoyed by an elected Assembly almost irrelevant, and is irrelevant because kept under check by the same majority of the Executive. Basically, we would go to give institutional status to the situation that actually exists - for now - in this Parliament. Any student knows that Montesquieu, therefore not a dangerous Russian revolutionary, would have considered such an unacceptable situation: the absence of a real differentiation and balance of powers. Now, this type of Parliament, one with the Government, is what would come out with a large majority prize such as you imagine, namely with a relative majority list capable of bringing 340 representatives to Parliament or, in any case, a clear majority in support of the Government. A list alone capable of governing the country, therefore giving governability. Attention, this type of approach would mean the freedom to govern the country even against its own electoral promises, even against that part of the relative majority party that remembers those electoral promises and wants to follow them. Here, you see, we are convinced that Italy does not need governability; it needs Government: let's talk about something else. We, political class (at this stage of our life), do not need to be able to govern even without the consensus spread in the country, also against the country: we need to recover the ability to persuade the Italian people, promoting civil awareness. We need to convince our fellow citizens that their thinking heads are of interest to us, that we are interested in their opinions, and not just during the election campaign. Now, as you can see, we are far from considering the drastic Emilian and Calabrian abstentionism of the last regional elections as a secondary fact. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish it, Senator. CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Democracy is a people that governs itself, and not a people that delegates blindly those who are able to adopt choices against his will, giving him even the choice of the people who must represent him, because, as some colleagues have clearly pointed out, in a plant with the blocked capilists you do not choose anything. At this point, I ask everyone: must it come from a party that is called and that is born as a Democratic Party the aristocratic and oligarchic assault against the system of parliamentary representation of the electoral body? We shall see this in this debate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Astorre is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u41	Madam President, of course I am right in saying this by comparing the Italicum approved in the House with the amendments proposed by Senator Finocchiaro, because we are thinking about the texts proposed to the Commission even if they have not been adopted. I cannot fail to point out and point out the positive elements, starting with the double shift. I am sorry that Senator Crimi is not present today, who said yesterday that the double turn also brings to the government parties that have a low percentage. But the 5 Star Movement rules some cities of Italy, from Parma to Livorno, from Civitavecchia to Pomezia, having obtained in the first round from 15 to 20 percent, and governs them quietly, without anyone contesting their legitimacy or having to blame those mayors and the majority that governs. I think that is precisely the point: the double shift - and it is a very positive thing to have raised the threshold to 40% - finally allows you to govern this country. In disagreement with my colleague, Mr Campanella, I say that it is the lowering from 8 to 3% that makes it possible to combine governability and representativeness. As for the list prize and not the coalition, I am sorry that the colleagues of Forza Italia are so little present in this House today, given the fact that I have always heard Berlusconi recriminate that he could not implement his government programme because the allies prevented it. This law instead allows political formation - then it will not be a party, because there will most likely be other representatives on the list - to have not the overpower that was said before (because 55% of Parliament compared to 60% of all the representative Assemblies of Italy shows that there is no overpower of Parliament), but allows it to govern. On the other hand, 3% allow us to have a representation in Parliament of all. I think, however, that there is a problem; we have pointed out this with an amendment signed by some 40 members of the Democratic Party: it is the problem of blocked capilists. In a tripolar system, what is there today in Italy (I do not think that there will be substantial changes shortly), with the reduction from 8% to 3% of the threshold of representativeness, basically in Parliament there will be 350-370 MEPs appointed. Of course, I might object to the fact that there is an opportunity for multiple applications. On this point I agree with what Angelo Panebianco wrote yesterday on the "Corriere della sera": multiple nominations are basically a betrayal of the will of the elector, since the elector elects a candidate but then finds himself another semi-unknown thanks to the option of the elected candidate. However, multiple applications - let us be clear - are decided in parties that have less chance of electing people. Leaders and the ruling class apply to several colleges to see where they are elected, but in larger parties, at least for the experience we have gained, only one or two subjects and the leader, possibly, can apply for multiple colleges. Of course, multiple colleges also have a problem: as I said before, one candidate is elected in one college but then we find another. Not even the 100 colleges in which Italy is divided represent a major problem. In fact, electing parliamentarians with preferences in small colleges (such as those with 500,000 voters) is, in my opinion, preferable to larger colleges. The theme is the final result, i.e. the arranged combination that flows from it. Frankly 350, 380 MPs, Senator Finocchiaro and Undersecretary Pizzetti, there are many, too many. I think that a 25% percentage of nominations can "be there" because in Parliament it is right that there should be a representative part of parliamentary competences, a representative of party competences and a representative of civil society. As far as the appointment of people who are no longer in Parliament is concerned, if Rita Ghedini were still in Parliament, I would immediately put her as a leader everywhere, because a person who does his work in Parliament from Monday to Sunday, in comparison with others who work on the territories during the days of their not sitting, like you (but this also applies to the President of an order or to persons with special competence in the Commissions, the party or the professions) I think there should be. 25% is equivalent to 150 Members of Parliament; the same proportion as the Mattarellum in which, in fact, elected Members amounted to 25%. In conclusion, I would like to speak of a hypocrisy, that of preferences. It will echo in this House (it has already happened), it will echo in our more or less confidential meetings, it echoes in the Group meetings and it is echoed yesterday in an article in Panebianco where the vote of preference was compared to the vote of exchange. I want to talk about this hypocrisy. I do not feel a Member of Parliament, an opinionist to stand up against the favourite vote in the European elections. On the contrary, we sold the reform of the European elections with the double vote of preference and the gender one as a great achievement when there would be a need for blocked lists because it would be necessary to have dedicated skills and not distracted from their territory, also because there are colleges that count 12 million inhabitants with what follows in terms of spending and difficulties in conducting the electoral campaigns. I do not hear a Member talking about the vote of preference as an absolute evil against the elections of the Regional Councils when all regions, including Emilia-Romagna, have abolished the list prize blocked by awarding the majority prize with double gender voting. All regions do this: they started Campania and are all following it. I do not hear a voice rise against the vote of preference for the election of municipal councils: not one. At Locri, at Africo Nuovo (I don't want colleagues from those areas), in Reggio Calabria, as in Florence, Rome and Milan we elect the city councilors with the vote of preference, but I didn't hear anyone speak of it as absolute evil, such as bribes or mafia. There we can influence the local organs by bribes and by the mafia but when the vote of preference is related to the election of Parliament this becomes absolute evil. Let's be clear. As far as I'm concerned, I'm in favour of the double-round single-member college: double-round, however, because it's what allows people to be representative in the territories in the possible ballot (and not in the single-round). Then, if you want, let's think about what the single shift is between 1994 and 2001. If you remember, Berlusconi in 2001 prevented all the MPs of Forza Italia in the colleges from campaigning with their face forcing them to show his all over Italy. Basically, all the single candidates in the individual shifts were reset. If you want, let's think about what it meant to say "unique turn" in the negotiations conducted for the Olive tree in Piazza Santi Apostoli among the Plenipotentiaries of the parties to divide the colleges into first, second and third bands. The myth of the one-shift college is good in the Anglo-Saxon reality, where the parliamentarians are expressions of the college and where trouble is putting a parliamentarians who are not. The optimal system is the one with double turn of college. But, in order to give Italy a governability, given this facility, I say that one cannot fail to have a vote of... president. I invite you to conclude, Senator Astorre. Mr ASTORRE (PD). I would like a minute more, Madam President. I rarely speak; moreover, I have noticed that other colleagues have used less time than they had at their disposal. Therefore, understanding that there is a need to have a designated and indicated representation part, because it is right, I think that you can have it in various ways: with 25% or reducing the colleges or using the system of Tuscany, which leaves the parties the possibility to use blocked lists or choice. The systems are different. But this system, which leads to 350-380 parliamentarians being blocked, is frankly difficult to digest. One last thing, the political paradox par excellence. The parties that lose the elections will have only the leaders in Parliament, i.e. only the nominated ones. In other words, the secretariats of the parties that lose the elections will have in Parliament parliamentarians to their faithful. Instead of being punished for losing the elections, they will be rewarded because they will find in Parliament all the Members they have appointed. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u42	Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u43	Madam President, today we have to discuss the electoral law. It is a text that reaches the Senate after being discussed in the Chamber on March 12, 2014. It has not been fully examined by the Commission, where several amendments have been tabled. On 9 December, the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, tabled two amendments which further changed the structure. I would like to highlight some substantial differences. The first is that the allocation of seats and the possible majority prize will go to the lists and no longer to the coalitions. In addition, the threshold for access to the majority prize will be referred to the list alone and set at 40% and no longer at 37 percent. Here I would like to open a small parenthesis, since we do not take account, for example, of the percentage of voters. If we were to take the percentages of voters in the last regional elections, it would be possible for a party with 20-25 per cent of the votes at the poll (of 50% of those entitled) to obtain a majority of Members. Another point of diversification is the single threshold for access to parliamentary representation, which is reduced to 3%, as regards both lists and coalitions. Another question is that the 340 seats are allocated in any case to those who reach 40% or to the winner of the ballot and not with a complicated system as it was previously. The ban on appearance between first and second rounds was also abolished. Another thing I do not understand is that the number of seats per multi-annual college is determined from a minimum of three to a maximum of nine, when there were six before; I do not understand the meaning of that. One interesting aspect is the introduction of double gender preference, with the penalty of nullity of the second preference. Interestingly, the candidates in a constituency must be of different sex for at least 60% of the cases. Then there are other situations, for example the reduction of multi-member colleges from 120 to 100 and some regional problems, especially with regard to Trentino-Alto Adige and Valle d'Aosta. This amendment has not been adopted, however, although we must bear in mind that it will most likely be the final text. In my view, there are still many critical issues to be examined. I would also like to comment briefly on the subject of preference, because, as the rule has been written, I think it is a mockery, because we have seen that the only value of the Finocchiaro proposal is that at least there will be a gender alternation. Let us take a practical example, assuming that there are three competitors, that the first takes 40% of the votes and that the other two take 30% each, the two losers will have about 129 seats, only 29 of which are chosen by the citizens (a little less than 25%). Only those who have a majority prize will have a fair share of Members elected by the citizens. Even the possibility of multiple applications, up to a maximum of 10, is a strongly distorting element. At this point, more than analyzing what is there, I would like to stress two elements that are missing, starting from what Nenni said, namely that ideas walk on the legs of men - and I add women - so I think it is right that people sit in Parliament from the immaculate curriculum. I refer therefore to Article 7 of the single text of the laws governing the election of the Chamber of Deputies, the decree of the President of the Republic No. 361 of 1957, which we are going to amend, and especially to the article on cases of ineligibility, which are different and I am not going to read all. However, Article 7 (b) seems interesting to me, because it refers to the presidents of the Provincial Councils (I am saving you the comment I should make on the Provinces) but it also does not refer to the metropolitan cities: since we are putting our hands on the electoral law, we will also have to put our hands on these points. I would have liked to have found some more explicit reference to the formation of application lists. As there are cases of ineligibility, as referred to in Articles 7, 8, 9 and 10, I would have seen this more accurately. I would remind you, for example, that the anti-Mafia Commission itself approved, in a report on 23 September 2014, the proposed self-regulation code, which intended to commit parties and movements not to run for persons who are involved in organised crime, against public administration, extortion and usury and much more. I would propose to take Article 1 (1) of this report and to include it in the measure under consideration. In this way, in fact, we will give authority to the people who will sit on these bars. The examination of this measure could also be an opportunity to impose a more stringent regulation and not a voluntary acceptance. Other elements such as the conflict of interest and anything else we have heard before should also be included. At this point I continue with the ball I've always had, in the sense that we have to distinguish the meritacratic world from the real world. In the real world, obedience, subjection and belonging are rewarded. What I am saying is verifiable, given what we did in August this year during the votes on constitutional reform. It was seen that when there was a free vote, on the occasion of secret votes, the majority and therefore the government went under: 140 to 135. 65 senators then had the opportunity to change their minds and express themselves freely. It would therefore be enough to give Members real freedom of expression. How? It is very simple: it is necessary to ensure that after one or at most two mandates a person is no longer eligible. This would really guarantee his freedom, also because in this way he should not be accountable to anyone and in a semi-blocked system such as what we are going to vote would really be free. I want to conclude with an element taken from a beautiful lesson by Professor Giovanni Sartori, held in Mantua at the Literature Festival. He stated the need to make the work of a Member of Parliament unappealable, obviously in economic terms and in terms of power. These two elements would go perfectly against all those who are intervening against preference. Who would spend a great deal of money getting elected when they no longer have economic power and no power in the literal sense of the term? We're proof of that. The parliamentarians of the 5 Star Movement were elected by spending practically nothing: the spenders among us spent a few hundred euros. I conclude by asking a question about a matter that I did not really understand. We are going to vote on this electoral law, which will enter into force once the constitutional reform of the Senate is completed, which also provides for a referendum. But if the referendum fails, as I think it will, what will happen to the proposal? This was not clear to me and Senator Bruno himself spoke of a situation that could turn out to be a mess. I don't think doing the math without the host is really good. I conclude by taking up a passage from Senator Finocchiaro's speech, taken from the presentation report in the Chamber, held on Saturday 20 December last at 7:00 a.m.: The reform of the electoral law alone is not able to fully resolve the needs of representativeness and governability. I really agree with this sentence and I believe that we must work especially on candidates in order to have a true capacity for expression, which this measure does not do. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u44	Colleagues and colleagues, I shall postpone the continuation of the debate on the drafts of law to another sitting and, since the Conference of the Leaders is convened at 12.30 p.m., I shall suspend the sitting until the end of the same meeting. (The sitting was suspended at 12.31 a.m. and resumed at 13.26 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u45	Colleagues, the Conference of Leaders approved by a majority the new schedule of proceedings until 22 January 2015. Next week, the Assembly will meet again on Monday afternoon, 12 January, at 5 p.m., for an information from the Government on the terrorist attack at the periodical Charlie Hebdo in Paris. Groups will be able to intervene for 10 minutes each. The continuation of the week and the subsequent one provides for the continuation of the discussion of the electoral bill. Amendments to the measure should be tabled no later than 8 p.m. on Tuesday 13 January. The Minister's report on the administration of justice will take place at the afternoon sitting on Monday 19 January. The timing for the debate was divided between the groups.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u46	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following program of the Senate's proceedings for the months of January, February and March 2015: - Drawing of law n. 1385 and related - Provisions concerning the election of the Chamber of Deputies (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Report of the Minister of Justice on the administration of justice - Drawing of law n. 112 - Provisions in the matter of disciplinary responsibility of magistrates and of office transfer - Drawings of law n. 19-657-711-846-847-851-868 - Provisions in the matter of corruption, vote of exchange, fake budget and money laundering - Drawing of law n. 264 and related - Rules for the establishment and discipline of the mark "company of living heritage" - Drawing of law n. 922 - Amendments to the penal code and to law n. 91 of April 1, 1999 on the traffic of organs intended for transplantation - Drawing of law n. 803 - Provisions in the matter of identification of members of the Forces of the order (made precisely by the Mixed Group, pursuant to article 53, paragraph 3, of the Regulation) - Drawings of law of conversion of decrees-laws - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the competent Commission - Budgetary documents - Documents defined by the Board of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys - Motions - Interpellances and Questions
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u47	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 22 January 2015: [[Thursday 8 January ant. h. 9,30-13,30 - Following bill n. 1385 and connected - Election Law (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Final vote with the presence of the quorum) Thursday 8 January pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to draft law No 1385 (Electoral law) will have to be tabled no later than 8 p.m. on Tuesday 13 January. [[Monday, January 12 pom. h. 17 - Government information on the terrorist attack on the periodical Charlie Hebdo in Paris Tuesday 13 January ant. h. 9,30-13,30 - Following bill n. 1385 and connected - Election Law (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Final vote with the presence of the quorum) " " " pom. h. 16,30-20,30 Wednesday 14 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20,30 Thursday 15 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16]] [[Monday 19 January pom. h. 16 - Report by the Minister for Justice on the administration of justice Tuesday 20 January h. 9,30-13,30 - Following bill n. 1385 and connected - Election Law (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Final vote with the presence of the quorum) " " " pom. h. 16,30-20,30 Wednesday 21 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 Wednesday " " pom. h. 16,30-20,30 Thursday 22 " ant. h. 9.30 Thursday 22 January pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Time distribution for discussion of the Minister of Justice's Report on the Administration of Justice (3 hours and 30 minutes, excluding explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: PD 40' FI-PdL XVII 27' M5S 21' AP (NCD-UDC) 20' Mixed 17' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 14' LN-Aut 14' GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI) 14' SCP 12' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u50	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, we have not approved this proposal for a timetable for certain issues which we have been repeating for a very long time now. First of all, Mr President, you have heard me speak in this House several times on the timetable to remind Members, and to give public opinion, of the need to include the draft law on environmental crimes, which is progressing, among other things. Yesterday, in the Commission, opinions were expressed by the rapporteurs and the Government, and so we expect that it will be approved next week. As far as we are concerned, we ask that your examination be included in the week from Monday 19 January to Thursday 22 January. Tuesday, January 20 could be the right day for the inclusion of the environmental crime bill. I say this because the new calendar, once again, only reckons with the terms and urgency dictated by the Government only with reference to the electoral law - we are therefore in the same situation that led to the fact that, before Christmas, at the dawn of December 20, we were forced to incarnate the electoral law - and it does not count, instead, with the urgency, the emergencies and the assumption of responsibilities that we have assumed publicly. In the aftermath of the judgment of the Court of Cassation on asbestos - I would like to remind you here because we have all spoken in this House - we had undertaken, with the associations of the victims of family members, to finally complete, and then approve, the draft law in this area. The latter, however, will most likely be modified because the text has arrived from the Chamber for a long time and needs a further passage to the Chamber itself. There is therefore an absolute urgency and also - I repeat - in view of the solemn commitment of political and institutional responsibility which we had undertaken to the associations of the victims of asbestos. In addition, in recent days, other unfortunately not positive judgments have reminded everyone of this political responsibility to include environmental crimes in our penal code. It seems to us that a one-day parenthesis can be foreseen in the examination of the electoral law in order to be able to insert, discuss and finally approve this bill. Mr President, my proposal for a timetable is therefore to provide for the debate on the measure on Tuesday 20 January. The other issue - I would not like to give a bad news to Senator Cucchetti - concerns the proposal for information on the decree delegated in tax matters which, as you can see, has absolutely not been taken into account either by the majority or by the Government. I, on the other hand, think that it is appropriate not so much for the decision-making process, but precisely because it is a delegation given by Parliament. Because of the delicacy of the matter, I think it is absolutely appropriate that this information be carried out, and we propose that this be done in the week from Monday 12 to Thursday 15 January, already on Thursday 15 morning. I believe that it is the Commission's duty towards Parliament, which has delegated it, to finally make it clear. The proposals we make are very simple. I conclude by saying that, once again - this has now become a real mockery of oppositions - the draft laws of oppositions, which should be discussed under the Rules of Procedure, have disappeared once again from the timetable and this I think is absolutely serious and detrimental to the rights of the opposition. We do not really understand when we can finally see a bill of opposition discussed in this House. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u53	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, this reading is a timetable which continues the tradition of unconstitutionality of parliamentary practices here in the Senate and perhaps also of the House, because we still find ourselves with an electoral law that must be discussed at all costs without having finished the procedure in the Commission. Since this debate has come out at the Conference of Leaders, it seems to me appropriate to remind the House that, since there seems to be agreements on electoral law and the number of amendments, we could very well finish work in the Commission on electoral law and bring the measure back to the House and we could occupy these two weeks with draft laws that are ready in the Commission. I am referring both to those referred to by Mrs De Petris and to those on citizenship income, which should have been scheduled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure at the end of January. Since this is a very demanding draft law, we in the Commission can extend the debate somewhat - this may be the case - but the discussion of the other draft laws of the opposition continues to be postponed. This is also incorrect, it does not respect the regulations and agreements that we had made or the rights of oppositions. Then there is the anti-corruption package, stuck in the Commission justice like several other draft laws that could be resolved in a few days, starting from next week or the next week. Next week, for example, we could deal with the bill of anti-corruption or the one on the identification of the Forces of Order; the next week we could cut some time for some bills such as short divorce, which most of the country is asking loudly since it is part of other civil rights that have not been addressed by this Government for several months, even if it could be resolved in half a day. Then there is the environmental crime bill, which is an urgent matter. In essence, I believe that we cannot continue to make timetables that respect the will of a political force, that of a majority, satisfying the wishes of the President of the Council, without taking into account the rights of oppositions, which will sooner or later start to protest violently. And they will do it so hard that you will have to listen to us again, because this is the only currency that you understand in this House, the radical protest. The 5 Star Movement tries to confront and demand respect for its rights as opposition, which instead are constantly denied to it: then don't come and say that it doesn't dialogue! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u56	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, we in turn make an alternative proposal for a timetable, following the Conference of the Leaders, in which we made two requests, the first of which was to move the government's information on the Paris bombing to another date or other time. We asked for this to allow all the parliamentary groups to speak and to attend the debate, given that more than one Parent Company was present on that day and that a number of political meetings were held in various Groups. We asked to move that information to another day, but at this point, I would like to move it perhaps to another time (for example, if the Minister were available, I would also propose to postpone it by a couple of hours compared to 5 p.m., which is the scheduled time). Another request, totally dismissed by the Minister, is that of an information from the competent Minister on the legislative decree of tax reform. The answer was that the decisions taken within the Government are secret and that the Government will then report to the House at the time of the debt. We believe that, at this historical moment when we talk about hands that affect the various decrees and that, however, we often do not know who they are, in the face of article 19- bis of this decree, modified according to the mood of not knowing who, we would like to have more information from the Minister and the Government. This request comes not only from the League, but from many senators from various parliamentary groups who have also expressed it in this House. We had therefore asked for this political kindness from the Government and we have also tabled a motion, but it seems to us that we have understood that this Government prefers to go forward with small blows from the President of the Council. Let us go on like this: however, we ask that our proposal be set on schedule. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Taverna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u57	There are some coincidences in the proposed changes to the calendar made by Senator De Petris and Senator Airola, such as the inclusion of the environmental crime bill in the timetable. I shall therefore put this proposal to the vote. It's not approved. [[Ironic applause from Senator Nugnes.]] There is a second proposal to modify the calendar, presented by both Senator Airola and Senator Centinario and Senator De Petris, to include the Government's information on the legislative decree implementing the tax delegation. I'll put it to a vote. It's not approved. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. Then there is the change of calendar proposed by Senator Centinario, aimed at moving the day or at least the time of the information scheduled for next Monday. To be honest, I must say that we have carried out a quick check and, unfortunately, for the same reason that the Minister will not be present on Tuesdays and Wednesdays because he will be in Brussels, so that we cannot move the time. I therefore ask Senator Centinario if he wishes to maintain the request or if, on the basis of this information, he intends to withdraw it. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, we are correct and we withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you. The last vote is on the request of Senator Airola, who asks to include other bills on the calendar. I put to the vote the proposal made by Senator Airola. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-370.ana.u58	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.42 a.m.
