ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u4	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. From now on, therefore, the deadline of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1345, 11, 1072, 1283, 1306 and 1514.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u11	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to know when we will have the pleasure of having President Grasso chairing the sitting, because I would like to complain directly to him about the events that took place yesterday. There's no point in telling her, looking at me with that inexpressive face and solving anything. [[Applause and laughter from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u12	Senator Airola, President Grasso will preside when he sees it, and not upon request. It can, therefore, do so at any time and not at its request. AIROLA (M5S). When he wants to, I mean. All right, thanks. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us continue with the general discussion of the bill on crimes against the environment. He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the approach of the legislators to the environment is of a cultural nature, just as it was pointed out yesterday by Senator Caliendo: the experience gained in decades of attention to ecology, which has been laboriously formed in the last decades of the last century, must serve as a guide for further steps towards a healthy environment, not hostile to the quality of life of men and women and capable of increasing the years of their lives, in a balanced relationship with creation. Today, more than yesterday, this represents a duty: the right to live in a context of quality, in fact, has equal importance compared to the duty to assure ourselves, the next and future generations an environment free from harmful factors, able to feed a virtuous economy, that produces profit without causing damage to environmental factors, preserving work, production and incomes. If these goals have the taste of utopia - I am convinced that human actions must be full of ambition - it is not excluded that, in thinking high and having a long look, human ideals can be realized and the universal religion of respect for Creation cultivated. Now, the bill Act of the Senate 1345, already approved by the House and today under discussion in this House, in subjecting to new beams of light the precarious balance between the natural environment and the built environment, in predicting new and indispensable crimes against the environment, draws attention to what is not provided for in the current environmental code, which is a milestone which also constitutes a reason for boasting to the legislators in the perennial fight to safeguard the landscape, the places of work and study and the domestic environments, generating doctrine and sanctions in the incorrect and casual use of factors such as air, water and sound. We are talking, specifically, about the bill, about "delicts against the environment" and particularly about environmental pollution, environmental disaster, traffic and abandonment of high radioactivity material, impediment to control. Workful repentance is expected for polluters. The sentenced person is obliged to recover and restore the status of the places. Well, they are all steps forward towards that religion made up of rights and duties toward Creation. The cultural approach called for is evident, it is noted. The cultural and experential approach is tangible. Therefore, I think with a sense of closeness to the experience of the many municipal administrators and mayors who daily, on the territories of their own competence, have to face the asymmetrical struggle towards and against the polluters, those of profession and those of necessity: heinous both, hateful authors of nefariousness, unconscious to the pure state, criminals. Some extenuating, non-absular, we have towards the second, towards the artisans of the building, the coachmen, the mechanics of the Province: in short, that patrol of the casual polluters that fills with slags, of corrosive semi-finished products, scraps of workmanship, often of asbestos and inerts of the construction industry; those hideous discharges of tires in our districts. All these operators constitute the silent army of daily environmental bombers. It is an unequal manhunt for the mayors called by the Forest Corps, the Carabinieri of the NOE, the Provincial Police and the ASL, to answer for lack of control, omission of vigilance and obligation to prepare care for the violated environment. In these circumstances it is necessary to do so, under penalty of the responsibility of the mayors in the pernicious continuation of the state of pollution, with the potential deleterious effects on the health of the communities administered. Therefore, in those moments the municipal technical offices are activated, expert advice is being prepared, interventions are asked of the companies specializing in pollution: everything with high costs, everything with numerous human, professional, financial resources, and with anxious concerns of those in the very small as well as in the small, medium and large centers is called to administer, and govern. And the municipal coffers are drying up. The finances of the local authorities are desperate, because action to remove polluting causes costs one eye to the head. It's always pants that pay! It is taxpayers' citizens who are called upon to carry out the local tax burden. It has been well said, also by my colleague Bruni: the advent of the green economy is far away. We are far from a harmonious frame of reference that includes the development of new trades, new professions, new investments, new technologies, new lifestyles, a new approach to the enjoyment of the landscape and cultural heritage. This year spent discerning electoral and constitutional reforms is a year lost on the time needed to reach the goals of the green economy in the country. Now, without indulging towards the criminal or occasional polluters and from the economy of underdevelopment, recession - the one that generates disdainful behavior in small and medium-sized workers and in dishonest citizens towards mankind, compromising the health and well-being of their children - the State should contemplate a regulatory and financial framework that can remove mental attitudes prone to pollution and promote a culture of proper pollution and disposal of waste, of all waste, at affordable costs. If disposal costs were to fall, it would probably reduce the ability of citizens to pollute. This too constitutes a cultural footprint, a new approach to the care of the environment. In fact, cartels have been formed on the territories of companies dedicated to pollution. High prices and unsustainable costs are imposed, especially when it is the local government that pays to provide. Lower disposal costs, on the other hand, could probably be a disincentive to pollute on the part of small ones, of those who delude themselves to saving by spreading the territories of outbreaks, of tiny poisons, of micro-disseurs. It is a phenomenon that needs to be highlighted, that law enforcement officers should report to legislators so that Parliament takes note, transposes and legislates in the sense of distinction, differences in the categories of pollution and different polluters. On the other hand, the Government is already invited to open its eyes, to intervene to make the market of pollution and reclamation as much as possible for citizens, within the pockets of taxpayers and public administrations. In doing so, we contribute - and not a little - to the cultural approach of the environment universe. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u14	Senator Vaccari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few political points in this speech, leaving the legal considerations that other colleagues have been able to explain much better than I have. I stress this, because the bill that we will approve - today, as I hope, or in the next few days - at second reading, and that the PD will vote with great conviction and satisfaction for having strongly wanted it, will allow our country to make a significant change, certainly filling a legislative vacuum, but also clearly indicating what will want to be the model of development that we imagine for the next few years. Up to now, in fact, our country has had criminal legislation to protect the environment completely inadequate, of a substantially contrary nature, based on the old approach that has always recognized the reasons of the economy leaving out the environmental, social and health costs. The introduction of environmental crimes into the penal code is, instead, a reform of civilization, legal and ethical. After today we will be able to declare the end of the season in which the environment was considered as an endless good. They will remember how it took the great environmental disasters of the 1980s to increase a new environmental awareness, reaching the constitution of the Ministry of the Environment in 1986 and the birth of the great associations and environmental movements and, from there, to the definition of a legislation that, on several occasions, completely revolutionized the relationship between economy, environment and health. Today we will make, although in serious and guilty delay, a second and decisive step: to introduce the crimes against the environment in the penal code, which does not only mean to pass from today's violations to the prison of tomorrow, but to raise a high and resistant embankment to fight the lawlessness in the environmental field, which many deaths unfortunately has sown and many indelible signs on the territory and the landscape has left. Let us all think of the land of fires, mentioned by rapporteur Sollo, and of those families that have lost their loved ones, including many children, because of the consequences of pollution done on the ground, air and water from camorra, unscrupulous entrepreneurs and dignity, of the North and the South, and by some local administrators who are visually impaired. The Senate Environment Commission visited that land as the first act after its settlement in 2013, meeting, listening and recording the data and cries of the Forces of Order, mayors and prefects commissioners, citizens and families involved, Father Maurizio Patriciello, observing directly the ruin done to hundreds of hectares of fertile land close to inhabited centers. President Napolitano himself then recommended to Parliament that it be quick to give answers to those desperate mothers who had addressed him with a heartfelt letter. Parliament responded to that appeal and warned through a first measure, Decree-Law No 136 of 2013 of the then Minister for the Environment Orlando, who operated the introduction of the new crime of illicit combustion, as well as other measures relating to reclamations, confisks, land register and land classification. It was certainly not enough for this decree to stop the phenomenon, but it was undoubtedly a very strong signal, towards organized criminals and honest citizens, of a presence and a will of the State to take hold of the situation in order to change it radically. Today, that same Parliament, apart from some delays accumulated in the parliamentary process, once again takes up its share of responsibility as the ruling class of this country, paying back that land and all the other parts of our territory that, like the land of fires, await justice for what happened to them, because of a system of malpractice and widespread illegality or more simply because of individual irresponsible enterprises, to allow those communities to come back to believe in the future, to succeed in starting the work of reclamation, rehabilitation and ecological conversion of polluted sites. The data - we know - speak clearly. An alarming picture of environmental lawlessness emerges from the Ecomafia 2014 report: 80 crimes per day, 3.3 crimes per hour, more than 28,000 people reported. Those same data of lawlessness tell us that, in 2014, there was, of course, a decrease in confirmed crimes of 14% but, if crime falls numerically, it increases the danger, redesigning the geography of environmental crime, where the illegals in the agri-food sector and the damage to fauna weigh more and more. The number of eco-mafia clans also grows, reaching a total of 321 in the national territory. These are data that do not harm only the environment and ecosystems of our beautiful country, but undermine to the foundations the economy of so many territories, because to take advantage of this situation of illegality, pollution and disaster, are those companies more unscrupulous, colluded with the evil and the organized underworld, and not those innovative ones, that respect not without difficulty the rules, that compete on the global markets. The exploitation of the environment goes to the mafias at every latitude, because it guarantees high revenues in different sectors, and to achieve them they are willing to everything, even to endanger the lives of citizens or to kill those who stand in the way of the mayor fisherman of the Municipality of Pollica, Angelo Vassallo. If we want to help and support other businesses to protect the territory and those who live there and honestly administer it, we need this new good law. But in order to make it even more effective, we will have to work to ensure that in the coming weeks the reform of the system of controls, environmental agencies and ISPRA will also come to this House today to the attention of our Environment Commission. Just as we will have to move quickly towards a simplification of legislation that reduces the margin of discretion and uncertainty of the public administration, the judiciary and the law enforcement agencies. Only in this way will we put our country in a position to be modern, profoundly European, indicating also a more sustainable line of economic development: the environment not only as the main set of common goods to be protected, guarded and delivered to the improved posterity, but as an important opportunity to set a new development based on the culture of renewable resources and a new consciousness of the limit of human action. For these cultural and ethical reasons too, today we are giving rise to a significant breakthrough through the introduction of four new environmental crimes: environmental disaster, environmental pollution, traffic and abandonment of high radioactivity material and impediment to control. And I also hope that the measures related to illegal activities relating to protected flora and fauna can be accepted, as proposed by an amendment that we have worked on in several PD senators, or the subsequent adaptation to the new criminal offences and sanctions provided for by Law No 150 of 1992. It would be a completion of the contents of the bill's text to the forecasts of the Washington Convention, which regulates the trade of thousands of living species, to hit one of the world's major illegal markets for turnover and number of people involved. I want to thank here the work done by the rapporteurs Sollo and Albertini of the Ministry of Justice in the people of Minister Orlando and Undersecretary Ferri, as well as by the Justice and Environment Commissions, starting with Presidents Palma and Marinello, the Leaders Group of PD Lumia and Caleo, who today cannot be here with us to vote but who have worked so hard to achieve this result. It is a work carried out to seek a shared summary of the changes and improvements of the text in some parts of it; work that will end here in the Chamber with the approval of some corrective amendments and drafting of the text, also on a proposal from the Government, completing the definition for the new crimes of the eco-mafioso aggression for the associative form of the person who commits it, the industrious repentance removing the non-invalidity, the increase of the time limit, the obligation to confiscate and the sentence to the restoration of the state of the places in charge of the sentenced person. I hope that, by voting on the Government's amendment, the seventh part of the text that came out of the House, which introduced into the environmental code the sanctioning discipline of administrative and criminal offences in the field of environmental protection, will be able to simplify life especially for healthy and honest companies and those that have invested in the green economy to get out of the crisis. It is a great and undeniable step forward, and I want to say it to those who, during the general discussion, wanted further changes in order to have the perfect law. To that the legislator must always tend, but I would like to point out that, compared to yesterday, the change is obvious. This is one of the important reforms that has been expected for many years and that will enable us to build a modern and effective legislative framework to protect the environment and, therefore, the health of the citizens, if we can complete it shortly as I mentioned earlier. No loopholes then, but in differences of position, inevitable on such a complex and delicate matter, the search for the balance point shared by most political forces. Vandana Shiva, Indian environmental activist, also awarded in our country several awards for her local and global battles, to protect biodiversity, wrote: We can survive as a species only if we live according to the laws of the biosphere. The biosphere can meet everyone's needs if the global economy respects the limits imposed by sustainability and justice. Today I hope that we will be able, by approving this law, to raise much the bar of sustainability and justice, indicating to our country a way of development that goes along not only with the biosphere, but also with the future generations to which we will have to deliver it possibly improved compared to today. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u18	CASSON (PD). Mr President, I rise to present and give the Presidency with two rewordings relating to amendments 1,231 and 1,333. The first amendment concerns the exacerbators of the crime of environmental pollution, linked to death or individual and multiple personal injuries. There is a need for coordination and reformulation to simplify and enable a better reading of the text. I would remind you, in particular, that when the last paragraph of Article 452-a was voted on in the Commissions meeting environment and justice, among other things at a very late hour (at midnight or at 1 a.m.), material errors were committed which must necessarily be corrected with regard to the indication of penalties. The second amendment that is reworded refers to the issue of environmental fraud. Having reasoned, during the period of the general discussion, with the rapporteurs and with the Government, as well as for the first amendment, I propose a text that refers to the commission of facts already provided for by Legislative Decree No. 152 of 2006 or by the title of the penal code that we are going to amend or by other law aimed at protecting the environment; in cases of purpose this environmental aggravating is inserted which, in this way, appears more coordinated with the whole text that we are going to introduce. I deliver the reworded texts for better reading by all my colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u19	The rewording of the amendments to its signature will be sent to the 5th Commission and published in an annex, which will be examined next week. In fact, in today's sitting we will only examine the first 24 amendments to Article 1. The general debate is closed. As the rapporteurs do not wish to speak in response, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u20	Mr President, the Government also wishes to begin by thanking the Presidents of the Justice Commissions, Senator Palma, and the territory, environment, environmental goods, Senator Marinello, as well as the two rapporteurs, Senators Sollo and Albertini, and all the members of the two Commissions. We have all followed this measure, with great participation and a great contribution. Several meetings of the Commissions have been held and I must say that this has resulted in a very effective and important text in the protection of the environment, which is a significant step forward. The government has tabled three amendments precisely because - I am referring to what Senator Vaccari said last - it wants (especially with the third) to re-introduce the discipline concerning administrative sanctions, to distinguish the healthy and honest entrepreneur, who therefore has at heart the protection of the environment, from the dishonest one that, instead, uses crime to do business and that, exploiting the environment, creates economic interests. Turning to the substance of the rule, the Government, in addition to submitting the three amendments, will give a favourable opinion to several proposals that have been tabled, precisely because it wants to gather the ideas that emerged in the debate. Therefore, the text can still be corrected in the course of the amendment, thanks also to our contribution. The substance of this measure is first of all to adapt Italian legislation to European legislation. Europe was asking us for more attention and also for more criminal sanctions, and that is the view that pushed the bill as well. We can say, therefore, that with this provision we give to our country, to the Forces of the Order and to the judiciary of the serious and effective norms to suppress the crime and, therefore, to give rise to this repressive phase, which is important, but at the same time to allow those who have mistaken to repent, to reclaim and, therefore, to give back an effective protection to those who have been removed. This has led us to give a favourable opinion on a number of points and to strengthen the measures. As far as sanctions are concerned, the crimes that have been introduced have already been listed. Thanks to the elaborated norms, not only have we increased the prescribed terms, through which we can give that response of justice, but we have really tried to find the balance between prevention and repression, especially to allow in the repressive phase, at the expense of those who have wrong, to go back and put in place all the reclamation works necessary to restore the environment. This is a very significant step which I hope will be approved by everyone, because together we can move forward in the fight and protection of the environment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u21	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in the Annex to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u24	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking as President of the 2nd Commission, that is to say one of the two Commissions that have been interested in the measure. I would like to point out, Mr President, that the Government has tabled amendment 1,702, which repeats, pedissequaly, part of the text already contained in the draft law addressed by the Commissions. [[Senator Candiani's comments.]] Well, on the point, Mr President, I intend to represent, in a very clear way, all my bitterness for what is happening. In the Committees, the part proposing amendment 1,702 was abolished unanimously, with the Government's favourable opinion. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And this was done, Mr President, because there was an urgent need to launch the exquisitely criminalistic part of the measure and to leave the part now covered by the Government's amendment to the further details of the Environment Commission, which had examined other draft laws dealing with the matter. In other words, in the Commission, justice was decided, because of the urgency, to proceed, if you can say so, to a sort of deletion and to bring to the Chamber only the part that has arrived in the Chamber: I repeat, with the favourable opinion of the Government and unanimously. Now, the Government through its amendment re-introduces part of this legislation. I believe, Mr President, and this is repeatedly stated by the Constitutional Court, that the principle of loyal cooperation must apply among the institutions. And I do not find that the action of a government that expresses a favourable opinion for the abolition of part of the legislation and, after seven days, resubmits that part of the legislation through an amendment, causing a definite vulnus to the functions of the parliamentarians, and in particular of the parliamentarians engaged in the meeting of Commissions. You see, Mr President, we are now faced with this situation. The Government presents amendment 1,702, a season of amendments particularly compressed due to being the measure already to the attention of the Assembly, and only the 5 Star Movement presents a sub-amendment to this measure, at the first signature of Senator Nugnes. The legislation referred to in amendment 1,702 had been the subject of many amendments in the Commission, which were not the subject of discussion or discussion because of the agreement reached in that forum, unanimously, between all the members of the Commissions and the Government, not to deal with this matter, leaving the study to the Environment Commission. I understand, Mr President, that we are living in times when unscrupulousness is becoming a quality. I am probably to be destroyed, and not only because of my age, but I believe that relations between the institutions must be fair relations and that we cannot, as it were, resort to these subterfuges, when these subterfuges in particular compress the possibility of all Members of Parliament to deal seriously with the issue and to deepen it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr President, I hope, on the one hand, that the Government will take note of this situation and withdraw this amendment; but, on the other hand, I hope that the political forces in Parliament will be consistent with the political decisions they have taken in the Commission and that if, in deprecated cases, they will vote against the vote on this amendment, so that the Environment Commission can look into the matter and not make yet another usual propaganda commercial. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u27	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in the light of the speech made by the President of the Commission, I believe that, in his last part, as always, Senator Palma has shown an institutional political optimism which, unfortunately, we have not found in this House for a long time. I therefore believe that, in addition to the request by the Government to withdraw the amendment, account can be taken of the proposal that I come to refer the measure back to the Commission in order to be able to discuss - as it was in the premises, even if the deletion prevented it from doing so - the subject of this amendment. I therefore ask you formally, Mr President, to let the House know whether the Government intends to withdraw amendment 1,702; otherwise, we call for the measure to be re-examined by the Commissions. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u30	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, I too - like my colleagues Palma and D'Ali' - want to stigmatize the schizophrenic behaviour of the Government, which before the Commissions had decided to remove from the text paragraph 8 of Article 1 with regard to the sanctioning discipline, content which yesterday evening the Government re-proposed in full without any modification. I also want to stigmatize and underline the divergence between the behaviour, the action, the will of the speakers and the will of the Government, as expressed by the presentation of two other amendments of the Government - the 1,700 and 1,1701 - regarding the application of the penalty for behaviors from which could result the danger of compromise or deterioration of the environment. So, while the rapporteurs are asking with the twenty-fifth and twenty-sixth amendments for the removal of this crime - and that is why we are going to vote on only 24 amendments today - the Government is going to propose it again with its amending proposals. We are therefore faced with a political fact: there is a deep divergence between Parliament, the rapporteurs and the Government, and we absolutely want to denounce it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u33	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would also like to make a point of stigmatizing the Government's presentation of amendment 1,702, which proposes, with only a very small amendment, the inclusion in Legislative Decree No 152 of 2006 of Part Six-A, which - I would like to remind you - had been the subject of a long debate by the Commissions meeting. In fact, even before the procedure of the measure began in the Commission, it was precisely on this point concerning the sanctioning of administrative offences that the request had come from several parties to be able to remove it from the text coming from the Chamber, so that we could deal with the issue in other draft laws which, in our opinion, would have been even more appropriate. Beyond the reasons behind these requests, however, one thing is certain: the Commissions unanimously approved the deleted amendments of this part, so frankly I find it a little incredible that the Government intended to resubmit them. As far as I am concerned, I do not ask for the measure to return to the Commission, but I simply ask the Government to remain consistent with the opinion it expressed in the Commission and therefore to withdraw amendment 1,702. In this connection, I would like to add that I do not ask for the measure to be returned to the Commission because, as you know, Mr President, for months I have asked the Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups to examine the measure in this House and finally, after a year, have done so. I therefore believe that this issue can be resolved absolutely by an act of responsibility on the part of the Government, to which I call for the withdrawal of amendment 1,702. In any case, I hope that the Groups will remain consistent with what they voted in the Commission. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u36	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, yesterday I raised the issue of amendment 1,702 and today I ask that the Government withdraw it. In fact, we are talking about criminal matters and when the Commissions, together with the Government, felt that they had to look into the matter at a later stage, something wrong was done with its re-presentation, because in this way we do not allow a reflection, here, on what the Commissions, in agreement with the Government, had decided to have to examine on another occasion. Today, all of a sudden, we should vote with our eyes closed on what might have been the subject of a debate. I therefore expect the Government to formalise the withdrawal of the amendment, otherwise we have no confidence in a certain political line in criminal matters by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u39	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I rise to make a proposal to amend the agenda. We have already begun the general discussion on the draft law on organ trafficking, at the first signature of Senator Romani Maurizio, a measure whose examination has already been moved three times. Wherever the government needed a few hours to reflect on this issue, I wanted to suggest this change to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u42	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, our Group would like to support this issue in the terms proposed by Senators Palma and De Petris. The fact that the content of this amendment has been abolished unanimously in the Commission is a fact that should not be overlooked, especially since the Government's amendment essentially proposes the same repealed text, with very few variations. In the Commission, a replacement amendment was also tabled to remedy the inconsistencies highlighted by the State Forestry Corps and various prosecutors. So, we were only responding to technical data that had been submitted to our attention. In addition, an amendment was tabled in the Chamber, signed by Senator Buccarella, repealing the amendment. Therefore, there is no need to bring the measure back to the Commission. We absolutely do not want this to become a pretext, an excuse to blow up the measure. We work here, we work well and we make sure that we are consistent without going back to work in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u45	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, for the Democratic Party the measure under consideration is important and indeed indispensable. We consider this a priority and therefore we have worked in the Commissions together to ensure that this priority is shared and that not only the majority forces, whom I thank, but also those of the opposition, can converge. We have achieved this. The Government's presentation of amendment 1,702 to the House concerns a sensitive and important subject. This is - and I say this to my colleagues - a matter of sanctioning administrative and criminal offences in the field of environmental protection. It is an argument that complements traditional criminal sanctions and is able to incorporate administrative illegality as an additional resource to protect the environment, regulating it in an organic and systematic way. Of course, this is a subject that requires special attention, so we have assessed its pros and cons in the Commission. In the Commission, across the board, there were ideas in all the majority and opposition groups that confirmed this part of the text that had already been launched by the House. So it is true that if colleagues examine the amendments tabled they will see that, on this subject, not only amendment 1,702 has been tabled but also amendment 1,358 of the 5 Star Movement, which has then been withdrawn. This testifies that the argument is not false, but it is important. However, Mr President, since we believe that the measure we are examining is a priority and since we would like to approve it with a broad convergence of all political forces, we assume, as a Group of the Democratic Party, the responsibility of asking the Government to withdraw amendment 1,702, so that we can move towards the adoption of the text. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator Palma.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u46	It seems to me that everyone's positions are clear. At this point I would ask the representative of the Government whether he intends to respond to the demands or whether he intends to maintain the amendment, in which case the Presidency will reserve further assessments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u47	Mr President, first of all I take note of the comments made. It is clear that the reconstruction of the facts is as outlined (among other things I was also present in the Commission). The Government has returned to its steps in the meeting of Commissions, when a debate was held on the point which saw a unanimity of the positions to which the Government, while believing a lot in this rule, had adapted also on the basis of what had emerged from the debate. In fact, there has been talk of form, that it is right to have a value especially in relations between institutions and it is right to reflect on what has now been highlighted, but it is good to speak of merit too, so I draw attention to the importance of this rule because, if we go to see the judicial statistics, it was a way to avoid the prescription for criminal offences that very often, having very short prescribed terms, are declared prescribed. This could create a different way of trying to deal with the problem, in the form of accidents at work. So the importance of the subject remains and I want to stress it again. That is why the Government, taking up what had also been done in the other branch of Parliament, decided to re-introduce this issue. Today we are asked to withdraw the amendment. At this point, I would ask that we be able to have a moment of thought which is also useful for consultation with the Minister, in order to consider this possibility. We do not want to insist, but we want to draw attention to a subject in which we believe. We could find a solution, even by extending the debate or perfecting the text where there are demands to do so, because the issue is important and I think it is important that it remains here. I would therefore ask for a moment of thought to consider what is to be done.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u48	The request made by the Undersecretary seems correct to me. I therefore suspend the sitting for fifteen minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 10.23 a.m. and resumed at 10.42 a.m.) Colleagues, let's resume our work. I call the representative of the Government to present to the House its views on amendment 1,702.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u49	Mr President, in thanking you first of all for this pause which you have given me, I would like to make a further request: since, by looking at the timetable for the work you have set for today, we should vote on 24 amendments (because there is no opinion on others), leaving open all sorts of solutions and also taking into account what has emerged, I would ask at this point to proceed with the work and vote on the 24 amendments; when we arrive at the government's amendment proposal, relating to paragraph 8 (thus at the end), I will be able to formalise the government's position. I would therefore ask you to proceed with the examination of the 24 amendments and, left open, to consider the matter at a later stage.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u52	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, perhaps we have not understood each other. I am sorry to say this to Undersecretary Ferri, to whom I am bound by a bond of friendship of more than ten years: no more games. The Rules of Procedure, I stress, stipulate that the return to the Commission should be requested and decided before the vote on the amendments and articles is taken. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups.]] That is to say that, if we were to follow the Government's request, we would essentially preclude the return to the Commission of the measure, which is clearly necessary. Mr President, quite clearly: if we want to postpone everything so that the government can reflect, meditate and agree with those with whom it wants to agree within its majority, it is an account; a completely different account is to continue with the draft law. So, Mr President, either undersecretary Ferri changes his opinion or, if the Undersecretary does not do so, I would ask you, on the outcome of any initiatives taken by the representative of the Government, to give me the floor again to speak under Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u53	I believe your speech would be in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, Senator Palma.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u54	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I am sorry, Mr President, but I am not familiar with it. [[Comments of Senator Malan]] Senator Malan, who is an expert in the Rules of Procedure, tells me that he could also be in accordance with Rule 96 and I follow Senator Malan, who on these matters for me is the Gospel.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u55	That would be another matter, compared to that previously raised by Senator D'Alì, but Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure can also be mentioned.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u56	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we can say that the intervention would be in accordance with the combined provisions of Rules 93 and 96 of the Rules of Procedure, so we are all happy. While I am speaking, Mr President, I would like to say something else, and here too I do not want to hear from Mr Ferri. I guess the amendments were drawn up by the Ministry's legislative office, or I don't know who. If that were the case, I imagine that the office should know the difference between a paragraph and a paragraph: the first paragraph is equivalent to the second paragraph and the second paragraph is equivalent to the third paragraph. Then it would perhaps be appropriate for the Government to correct both amendment 1,700 and amendment 1,701, because having to vote on these two amendments of the Government would exclude from the text the aggravating factors referred to in paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 and would replace with a provision that would come into great contradiction with the provisions of paragraph 3 and paragraph 4 respectively. In other words, Mr President, we would be grateful to the Government if, in the formulation of the amendments, we did not want to bother anyone further, apart from the debate on amendment 1,702, if it were to pay the attention that Members normally pay, although they do not have a special legislative office. [[Applause from Senator Bruno.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u59	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, at this point I would like to say a clear and strong word, because the government amendment on the sanctioning and contravening part of the single environmental text hides within it, for those who have had the opportunity and the desire to observe it, the very dangerous risks, if not even the certainty, that all the infringement hypotheses, against the terms granted to the infringer to define the infringement procedure, which can be extended for a period of fact exceeding two years only in the framework of this procedure, will ensure, with reasonable certainty, that what the Undersecretary Ferri was fearing, or the risk of the prescription of the crime, is realized. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let's all remember that the infringements have a codistic prescribed term of four years, extendable up to a maximum of five. In this case half of the crimes go only with the forecasts of the government text. It is also envisaged to reduce the penalty, for the definition of the infringement, to up to a quarter of the fine, instead of the reduction to half, proposed in the much more balanced text of Mrs Nugnes. The latter, which was then withdrawn on the basis of the assumption that, unanimously, the political forces had agreed that the part relating to the amendments to Legislative Decree No 152 of 2006 was better reserved to the environmental connection, so as to concentrate today, finally, on the introduction of pollution offences and environmental disaster. Another element in support of the thesis that the Undersecretary may represent to the Minister, in view of the opportune withdrawal of amendment 1,702, is that the provisions contained in Article 318-e, as formulated by the Government, in the matter of suspension of criminal proceedings, do not in fact provide for the simultaneous suspension of the limitation. This is the confirmation that, without prejudice to a part of the law text, that we are agreeing with you and that it seems to have a more than good dignity in relation to the changes to the penal code, here we are trying to decriminalize in a substantial and subtle way - allow us to do so - all the infractional hypotheses, which also have their penalty dignity in a country devastated at the environmental and health level, contained in Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006. Finally - and I conclude, President - the 5 Star Movement is absolutely opposed to the return of the measure to the Commission. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This would be the risk of further cover-up of the text, and Italy cannot wait. Your e-mail boxes are also reached by hundreds of requests from citizens and associations to finally define this legislative process. No return to the Commission, then. The options are two, tertium non datur: either the Government withdraws amendment 1,702 or, if it does not do so (and in this case it would assume a responsibility for a heaviness such as to put it in great difficulty) analyze the articulated sub-amendments (the 5 Star Movement has prepared them) so that the governmental amending proposal is expunged from the legislative provision that we will fire. I do not know whether other political groups have prepared such sub-amendments; I am referring to sub-amendments which have a substance (and not formally because we know that this is not possible). We will vote on them (in the meantime vote on ours!) Because we don't get out of here, or rather, don't come out of it politically alive if this crap isn't put out. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u62	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, if I am not mistaken, I would like to point out that we already have on the agenda for next week the discussion of unfinished business. Since I believe that it is good that what has been an accident certainly of the Government does not become an accident of the majority, perhaps the time that the Undersecretary Ferri asked could be granted; and if, as President Palma has recalled, it is difficult to vote 24 amendments today for the reasons reported, we will send everything back directly to Tuesday, when the Government will have the clear ideas, since on Tuesday's agenda there is already provision for the discussion of topics not concluded today. It is useless to get lost in a glass of water; with a little common sense you can prevent the government's accident from becoming a majority.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u63	I address the greetings of the entire Assembly to some representatives of students and teachers of the Technical Institute for Tourism "Cristoforo Colombo" in Rome, of the Language Institute "Sant'Orsola" and of the Scientific Institute "Principe Umberto" in Catania, who attend our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u66	TONINI (PD). Mr President, Mr Lumia has already expressed the position of the Democratic Party, which calls on the Government, in the name of the pacifa sunt servanda principle, to withdraw the amendment, and the Government has asked for a reasonable period of time to reflect on a change of position which does not seem to me to be marginal. After that, President Palma talked about games and this definition is unacceptable to me. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Senator Tonini, mine was an understatement. TONINI (PD). There's no game here. [[Applause from the PD Group]] If we want to move forward on the position we have taken with Mr Lumia's authoritative speech, for us pacta sunt servanda, then the pact we made in the Commission must be safeguarded. If President Palma, or anyone else, wants to vote for the return of the measure to the Commission, we will reject the proposal, or at least the House will do so, which will regulate itself accordingly. We propose to vote on the 24 amendments, and on Tuesday, when there is a move to the new amendment by the Government, our position is to ask for it to be withdrawn. This is the proposal of our Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u68	You have the floor, but since there is a long range of requests for action, I would ask you to be brief so that we can reach a decision.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u69	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, for absolute brevity, our position is as follows. We believe, first of all, that the measure cannot and should not go back to the Commission. We are of the idea that the country can no longer wait and that we must therefore move forward. Having said that, I repeat my invitation to the Government to withdraw the amendment in question, also because - and this is the real reason why the whole issue raised by this measure was not addressed - the environmental committee is about to conclude its examination, and within a few weeks it will come back to the appreciation of the House, of the so-called environmental link. As part of that measure, we had undertaken to address a whole range of issues that are dealt with in this amendment. That is why, with unanimous consideration, the whole issue was removed from the debate in the work of the Commissions meeting 2nd and 13th. As far as I am concerned, as President of the Commission, I stand by that decision and it is reasonable reason to ask the Government to withdraw the amendment, although I say so as President of the Commission, but I also believe that I interpret the sentiments and thoughts of the Group to which I belong - which we will certainly never vote for a return to the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u72	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, if the Government is paying attention to me, I would also like to say that I understand the situation of Mr Ferri, who knows perfectly well, because he has heard him here, that practically all the groups have asked him to maintain the text and the decision taken by the Commission, but also that an explicit request has been made, including by the majority group, to withdraw this amendment. Among other things, as Senator Buccarella rightly pointed out, in this text there are issues that are far from neutral, that would have deserved further changes and changes, because they risk frustrating many of the forecasts contained in the previous articles. I therefore ask you once again to take this decision to withdraw and, always thanking you for your willingness to withdraw other amendments as well, even if vetoes have arrived from whom, I think it would be appropriate to the importance of this bill, which we are waiting for from four legislatures, that the Minister of Justice, who yesterday was in the House (I understand that the examination of constitutional reform is being carried out there), should follow the debate on this measure. In this way, the Minister, with his authoritative help, which has been valuable throughout this phase, could once and for all take the decision that the House requests him unanimously. I therefore repeat this invitation to you on our part. We consider it serious that the Government does not want to comply immediately with the request for withdrawal of the amendment, but we are not available to other games, such as to return the measure to the Commissions, where it has been for a very long time. I therefore think that you will be able to hear Mr Orlando again and ask him to be here, even immediately, so that we can readily understand that it is absolutely necessary to withdraw the amendment. Otherwise, I have tabled sub-amendments relating to each paragraph, all of which are deleted, and at that point I hope that the House will abide by the decisions and votes already expressed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u75	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we also held a lot of debates on this measure at the Conference of the Leaders, and on every occasion - as my colleagues will remember - I have always asked what the government thought about this measure, never getting any answers. The bill arrives in the Chamber mainly on the request of the oppositions, but clearly it is a matter of such importance that, as far as we are concerned and as I have said on several occasions, for certain parts it is in contrast with the so-called simplicity-Italy and with everything that has been done by this Government and the previous ones in the matter of greater facilities of infrastructural investments (overall speaking). It is remarkable that today we find ourselves looking at a measure in which the Government resubmits the same amendment that had been deleted in the Commission and on which - apparently - there is still no definite conviction; and it is singular that we want to vote at all costs 24 amendments knowing absolutely nothing about the behaviour, the thought and the decision of the Government on the measure as a whole. It seems to me that the simplest and most normal thing is to bring the measure back to the Commission with the amendment that has been tabled by the Government and debated in the Commission, that is, in the natural place; there it can be finally resolved and there the Government can finally express itself to us by telling us what exactly it thinks of this measure that is not irrelevant; in that place a solution can finally be found. I do not understand why this virtuous path cannot be fully activated. There is another hypothesis, proposed by Senator Mauro, to postpone the debate until the Government has made a better and more in-depth conviction. It seems to me, however, to be a second choice which does not solve the problem, whereas I think it is much more appropriate for the Commission to be able, with the final presentation of that amendment or another amendment (in view of the government's uncertainty), to resolve it in a complete and definitive manner. It is an appeal to reasonableness and not a request to put the majority and the government in trouble; it is an appeal that I make to work better on a measure of such importance in terms of environmental crimes. I therefore hope that, having asked for time, the Government will have access to the request for referral back to the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u78	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, this issue leaves us quite amazed because, even if we have become accustomed to everything in this House, we tend to overcome the previous one every time. Let's be clear: today undersecretary Ferri carries a cross probably not his and by the way he certainly does not like it, but what is happening today is not a new film, it is a film already seen. We were able to savour the result of having approved the Delrio reform on the Provinces with a constitutional reform that still has to abolish the Provinces. It is a paradox; when it came to approving European law, we saw the Government withdraw parts of the same that were included in the competitiveness decree, which was in contradiction with the related agriculture, which in turn is still to be approved, with an amazing regulatory overlap to say the least. Yesterday in the 14th Commission the same show took place in reverses, so the Government wanted to speed up the measure presented by Minister Orlando of reform on the security issue, while on the other hand in the House is asking for the postponement of the bill Grasso. Now this case is still on the table. Mr President, let us be clear: we have filled the boxes with a non-programming of work. The government takes on its responsibilities! The Rules of Procedure of the Senate provide for a two-month planning of work. Is it possible that we should come up with amendments tabled at the last moment, with work in the Commission not concluded, which are then resumed and with requests to bring the measures back to that place? You take responsibility for at least raggy management, which has nothing to do with all the decoded that say we have to solve the problems of the environment. Let's get by the nose, but not so much! We are witnessing yet another pantomime of a government that does nothing about programming, but that improvises everything and a majority that claims that the pacts must be respected. But think of the pacts you have signed and the damage you have done with the Nazarene covenant! [[Senator Martelli points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u79	Senator Martelli, Senator Buccarella has already spoken for his Group. We must decide how to proceed with the proposals that have been made. MARTELLI (M5S). But for Forza Italia the Roman Senators and Palma intervened! And I can intervene as a group leader! [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Colleagues, it's useless to keep screaming if you don't hear what's being proposed. The Government, represented here by the Undersecretary Ferri, has not changed its position after the renewed, multiple, calls for the withdrawal of amendment 1,702. Various proposals have been made from different groups. The Government has not, at present, accepted the call for withdrawal and has suggested that the amendment be put aside, since the examination of the issue should not be concluded today. Today there are in fact voting amendments, this issue could be taken up again and the government could, in theory, accept later the call for withdrawal, reject the amendment or convince the Senate to vote in favour. That, however, does not depend on the Presidency. Another request, which was first made by Senator D'Alì and then taken up by President Romani, is to refer the measure back to the Commission. I assume that it is workable, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, that this type of request must be made at an earlier stage of the debate and that, however, in the presence of new facts, the Presidency can assess such a request. As the new fact is, as the Government has tabled a significant amendment, which is being discussed, and the Government has not accepted the call for withdrawal, at least at the moment, the request to return to the Commission can be put to the vote. The outcome of this vote can be expected for the statements that have been made, but the Presidency must not make forecasts, but evaluate the acceptance of the requests. Therefore, in the absence of the withdrawal of the amendment by the Government, which continues to maintain its position, there is a proposal for referral back to the Commission, which can be put to the vote under Article 93, because the new fact is represented by the amendment by the Government. That is the Presidency's assessment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u82	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, just for the sake of clarity, does the hypothesis, which will be put to the vote, back to the Commission, concern exclusively the government amendment 1,702?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u83	No, Senator Buccarella, this is about the whole measure. In accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency may, in the presence of new elements, accept a proposal to refer the measure back to the Commission. Many groups have already spoken on this proposal, but we must not make predictions of results, but follow up on what the Rules of Procedure allow us to do. The vote would therefore refer to the return of the measure to the Commission. If the proposal is adopted, the measure will return to the Commission. If it is not adopted, it will be possible to continue the examination: either on the remaining 24 amendments or, if necessary, using the window of next Tuesday's sitting, where the measure would remain on the agenda of the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u86	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, with regard to these proposals, I would like to represent the following in this House. On more than one occasion, Mr President, we have returned to the Commission by fixing a few days later, then on Tuesday, the return of the measure to the Chamber, with the problem solved. That is to say that, if we were to go back to the Commission, we could well go back to the House on Tuesday for the vote. And on this point, Mr President, there are several and many precedents. The second point is that I have the impression that, in the event that we do not have to vote on the return to the Commission, Senator Mauro's proposal to postpone the examination of the measure until Tuesday next week, so that the Government and the majority can reason on the withdrawal of this amendment, could represent a reasonable period of time, which would essentially not take away the speed of the measure because, as we all know, today we should work for about half an hour to vote on 24 amendments. The third thing I want to say is that we are faced with a very unique situation where the forces supporting the government are asking the government to withdraw an amendment. The majority of the Government therefore asks the Government to withdraw an amendment and I imagine, since there is an amendment to the amendment proposal of the Government, that neither Senator Lumia, nor Senator Marinello, nor Senator Tonini, nor all those who intervened on behalf of the majority in this regard will lose face in this House by voting on the amendment of the Government. But then - and I am addressing the Government - the political question is quite simple: its majority asks you to withdraw the amendment. Mr Undersecretary, when you vote on this amendment here in this House, unless there are several parts in the play to be performed and if the senators who have spoken - as I believe - have dignity and respect for their own person, that amendment will be rejected. So let's get out of the stitches: the government withdraws the amendment and allows the Senate to start working and to quickly launch this text. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and Misto-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u87	The Presidency received a proposal to refer the measure back to the Commission, which was put forward by President Paolo Romani. Senator Mario Mauro referred to the different thesis of continuing the examination of the measure at the sitting of Tuesday next week: if there is a request to this effect, the Presidency may, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, put it to the vote. Senator Romani, will you ask for your proposal to be put to the vote? ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). I agree with what Senator Palma said. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. At this point there is Senator Mario Mauro's proposal to discuss the measure on Tuesday next week and to move on to the other item on the agenda, which would also allow the government to reflect on this multiple request. [[Senator Tonini is nodding to disagree.]] I see that Mr Tonini is opposed to this hypothesis. If Senator Mario Mauro intends to formalize his proposal, which was in some way that President Palma also made, it can be put to the vote. The proposal, among other things, would not come out of the agenda of this House - and I also say this to those who were against the proposal to refer back to the Commission - and would agree to conclude the debate and vote on the measure on Tuesday afternoon, on which the timetable for the proceedings of this House brings the unfinished subjects to the debate. In this way, the Government could also make some insights, following an invitation that came not only from opposition, but also from the majority groups, even if this is a political assessment that pertains to the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u90	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I call for the proposal to be put to the vote and I call for the reasonableness of everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u91	Colleagues, the proposal could be put to the vote or it could only be taken into account without a vote, since it is on the agenda. We could move on to the next item on the agenda, leaving this measure among those that have not been concluded, which is scheduled for discussion in the House's agenda. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). We want to vote! [[Senator Tonini points out that he wants to intervene.]] Please, Senator Tonini.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u94	TONINI (PD). Mr President, we are opposed to a delay strategy. There is a part of the measure that can be voted on today because it does not interfere with the subject of the government's amendment. Together with other groups, we have reiterated our request to the Government to seriously consider the withdrawal of this amendment. I believe that a majority force cannot be asked for more responsibility than this. For the rest, the measure must go on for us. If there is a perfectly legitimate request to refer the measure back to the Commission, put it to the vote. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). As you wish.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u95	Colleagues, I am trying to clarify, since the Presidency must only refer to the various requests. With regard to the request for referral back to the Commission, there is a request from Senator Mario Mauro to move on to the other item on the agenda, obviously taking for granted what is foreseen in our schedule of proceedings, namely to examine next Tuesday the measures not concluded this week and, therefore, the one we are discussing. If Senator Mauro's proposal were adopted, the other item would be on the agenda and this would be resumed on Tuesday. If this proposal were rejected, it would continue to examine the amendments which could be voted on, in accordance with what was said at the beginning of the morning. I therefore believe that it is clear what will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u98	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, with regard to the proposal made by Senator Mauro, the Group of the North Legacy is opposed to postponing the vote on the amendments until next Tuesday, as opposed to the return to the Commission of the draft law because, unlike what is said around, the North Lega does not want to lower the measure and wants it to go ahead, although there are many problems. In addition, I call on the majority and the government to overcome the political problem in relation to the issues referred to in the articles following the one under discussion. Here is a political problem as big as a house. If we really want to complete this measure, rapporteurs, the majority and the government will also address the political problem of subsequent articles, so that today we do not stop at the first 24 amendments. [[Senator Martelli repeatedly points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u101	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, obviously we have to scream to be heard in here! [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u102	Senator Martelli, say what you have to say calmly and then you will proceed to the vote. After all, we have been debating for two hours with a lot of freedom and tolerance.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u103	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, we are absolutely opposed to a change in this respect. We reject both the proposal, including a return of the measure to the Commission. The reason is that we do not want this issue to be discussed privately somewhere. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The government presented itself with an amendment that no one likes; it simply withdrew it, without going anywhere else to discuss separately and privately to perhaps find an agreement. If anyone here is going to cover up this provision, they know that we are not going to do so, and that is what we are going to do! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u104	I put to the vote the proposal to postpone to the sitting of Tuesday next week the continuation of the discussion of the bill, made by Senator Mauro Mario. It's not approved. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u106	About what? PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I just wanted to inform the Presidency that the electronic device did not indicate that in the last vote I voted against.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u107	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u108	Mr President, I would like to point out that I am very critical of this draft law, which in some respects is also unconstitutional, in accordance with Articles 40 and 12 of the pre-laws, because there is no clarity. [[Brusio]] Colleagues, I invite you to listen to me because it is really important. I would like to explain Amendment No 1,200. The case of environmental pollution referred to in Article 452-a and that of environmental disaster referred to in Article 453-b, as they are formulated, are easily confused in the view of the ordinary citizen, thus violating the principle of taxableness of the incriminating case. In fact, the definition of the crime of environmental pollution is very smoky when it says: "it causes a significant compromise or deterioration: 1. the state of the soil, subsoil, water or air; 2. the ecosystem, biodiversity, including agrarian, flora or wildlife. It is clear that the terminology "material deterioration" does not contain any precise, quantitatively or qualitatively, notion in which the citizen first, but also the magistrate immediately after can find a certain point of reference. It is worth noting that, in theory, even the registration of twenty new vehicles per year, within a Municipality with low density of cars and with a modest extra-urban traffic, can constitute a significant deterioration of the air, while in a metropolis such as Rome or Milan also the registration of a thousand vehicles is largely diluted both in the number of vehicles of residents already circulating and in the additional load on the air-environment of the many vehicles affluent from extra-urban areas. Again. The very concept of both compromise and deterioration requires that the term at least time of comparison to be unequivocally defined by the citizen, but also the magistrate, may refer with certainty: even for this inevitable necessity the example can be used that even the agricultural exploitation of a previously uncultivated soil significantly compromises the pre-existing state of the same, but not for this reason a situation of pollution has been created. It would therefore be necessary to quantify both temporally and spatially the extent of deterioration and/or compromise, since, in the absence of such certain parameters, even the reference to the violation of laws, regulations or administrative provisions specifically aimed at protecting the environment and whose non-compliance constitutes administrative or criminal in itself does not allow the pursuit of any pollution, always possible even with conduct not foreseen as illegal, neither the spatial quantification of the crime or, finally, the protection of the citizen from arbitrary interpretations of the too general term. Article 452-b, in fact, assigns to the term "environmental disaster" a specific spatial character (the extension of impairment) as well as a temporal one, as far as projected in the future (the elimination is particularly costly and can only be achieved by exceptional measures). Therefore, it is expected that in the draft law under consideration the difference as significant as conceptually acceptable between environmental pollution and environmental disaster, which is otherwise modulated even in the intended penalty, should be given the relevant references of the case. In addition, it seems at least incongruous that one case of minor damage, pollution, involves both the pecuniary sanction, in our opinion even modest, and the conclusive one, while the environmental disaster does not involve any pecuniary penalty, but only the conclusive one, which is still small. In the case of environmental pollution, it is considered appropriate to increase the value of the fine and to provide for imprisonment from four to eight years, while for environmental disaster offences, it is also appropriate to raise the penalty for imprisonment and introduce a fine ranging from EUR 250,000 to EUR 1 million. I would ask you to look at this amendment, otherwise in practice there will be incredible disputes in the courtroom with consequent damage, as has already happened, and I could mention at least fifteen cases where perhaps a company is stopped. The company in the meantime has a damage and the entrepreneur must also take charge of the damage caused by the judge who perhaps in the meantime has arranged the closure of the activity and exposed all to a not psychological but concrete deterioration with job losses and other. The more we make a precise and detailed rule, the more we will be matched with penalties and also with interpretations in terms of judgment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u109	I would like to explain Amendment No 1,210, in which reference is made to the deletion, in paragraph 1, paragraph 1, Art. 452- bis..., of the words "during" of the pre-existing state. In general discussion I have already had the opportunity to say that these expressions in literature have only been used in relation to the environmental disaster and have never resorted to pollution. In this respect, more than this amendment, I would like to highlight amendment 1.213, which replaces: "Durables of the pre-existing state" under the surface; "Durables of the water quality or air quality or soil quality or subsoil" with the following: "Durables of the pre-existing state"; "Durables" with the following: "Durables of water quality or air quality or soil quality or subsoil quality;" The definition of European Directive 2008/99 is taken exactly back. Amendment 1,219 instead makes a precise reference to the difference in the penal code between danger and damage. Of course, we all know that in the penal code we have the so-called attempted crime provided for in Article 56 of the penal code. We also know that the attempted crime is certainly more limited than the general abstract or concrete danger, to which the directives and literature bring us back all the time because of the need to always keep these data in mind. Amendment 1,253 also calls for the word 'irreversible' to be replaced by the words 'hard and significant', which define what can be a very serious damage to a territory and avoid making us stumble into the unscientific word 'irreversible'. Finally, I wanted to say that Amendment 1,256 - but I have gone beyond the first 24 amendments - is symmetrical to the previous amendment on the paragraph 'Art. 452-a-related to the placing in danger.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u110	I would like to explain Amendment 1,220 because the others are all aimed at increasing the financial penalty and, therefore, are easy to understand. It is also easy for Amendment 1,220 to understand the intent and spirit that motivates it, that is to protect our food and wine heritage. It is a heritage which is often forgotten when it comes to Italian cultural heritage and which should be protected not only for the value it has in itself, but also for the economic wealth it generates. The environmental disasters are then closely related, when they occur in areas where there are particular crops and of controlled origin, to damage to productions related to the territory. The damage is to our heritage in itself, but also commercial and we are sure if we remember the numerous press articles that have appeared over the years and the broadcasts that have denounced environmental disasters. There were interviews with a flood of direct farmers and shepherds who complained about a drop in production and therefore an economic damage. I therefore call on the House to consider this matter and perhaps also to vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u111	Mr President, I should first like to highlight one issue. As I understand that we will only be voting on the first 24 amendments this morning, I would ask you to stick to a procedure for which we only set out the first 24 and not all the amendments referred to in Article 1. I say this very explicitly, because there are amendments tabled to Article 1 which require precise attention. I would therefore like to comment on the amendments which I signed included in the first 24. The first amendment which I tabled and which I have extended in the correct text to paragraph 1 (Art. 452-b) - Amendment 1,205 (text 2) concerns the use of the adverb "abusely." I know perfectly well that this adverb was inserted in place of the previous diction, which was quite questionable. I recall in fact that the text coming from the Chamber recited: "anyone, in violation of laws, regulations or administrative provisions" and that the replacement of this part by the term "abusely" responded to the attempt to give a better accommodation to the text. We had tabled a proposal simply to add the word 'also' before the words 'in violation', because this would give the opportunity to understand all the cases that can be presented. The history of this country and the environmental pollution in this country tells us that the crime is consumed not only in violation of provisions, because these provisions may not be in force at the time of the damage and environmental pollution that however are produced. Having chosen the term "abusefully" suggests that in our legislative system there can be rules that allow environmental pollution. From this point of view, we have allowed ourselves to table a repealing amendment referring to the paragraphs of Art. 452- bis 452-b is because we believe it would be the best thing. In fact, the whole text makes a somewhat exaggerated use of adverbs and adjectives, which, alas, risk having the effect of removing clarity from the norm and putting into the same device to make it difficult to prove the crime. The same reasoning concerns the introduction, again in the paragraph "Art. 452-a is the adjective "durable" related to the deterioration of the pre-existing state. This adjective also lends itself not only to interpretations, but also to giving the possibility of gimmicks to show that the deterioration caused is not lasting. I therefore believe that we should remove all these definitions from the text (both in the case of the term 'abusefully' and the term 'durable' referring to the pre-existing state) because, in my opinion, they are absolutely ambiguous. We could also, for example, with regard to the question of the lasting deterioration of the existing state, not only repeal it simply, but do what Amendment 1,217 proposes (which I would ask you to endorse together with Amendment 1,218), at the first signature of Senator Casson, who, in my opinion, gives an absolutely correct definition of environmental pollution. There is another repealing amendment, again in the context of the first 24, on which I intend to speak. In the Commission, the text approved in the Chamber of Deputies of the introduction of 452-a, paragraph 1, with reference to the deterioration and impairment of water or air, or to large or significant portions of the soil or subsoil has been amended. I believe that introducing elements that are easily refuted or difficult to define in the debate is a danger and would remove incisiveness from the text itself. We will take this issue up again in the examination of the amendments referred to in Article 1, as I have already mentioned, especially when we are dealing with the subject of the environmental disaster referred to in the introduction of Article 452-b. Improvements have undoubtedly been made in this area, but there are still definitions - I think, for example, of the definition of irreversible alteration and, again, of the persistence of the adverb - which, in my opinion, make the norm less effective.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u112	Our work is followed by the students and teachers of the Institute including Via Santi Savarino in Rome, which we greet. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u113	Mr President, I should just like to explain four of the amendments tabled, and I note that, for the main part of the amendments we tabled and of which I was the first signatory, there was acceptance in the Commission by both the rapporteur and the representative of the Government. The only amendments I would like to make are Nos 1,209, 1,212, 1,217 and 1,218. I should like to explain why I would like to see the environmental crime approach that we would have liked to have been adopted here. Here it is a question of evaluating the rules presented jointly within the current environmental law system and, in particular, with reference to Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006 (the so-called environmental code), which gives already existing and operational definitions, both in terms of pollution and environmental damage. Two of these amendments, therefore, would simply bring back within the draft law to our examination the definitions of pollution and environmental damage that already exist in our legal system, which are already applied and which, therefore, are based on a case law that is consolidated. I say this because the first amendment that examines - amendment 1.209 - tended and tended to replace the words "compromise" or a lasting deterioration of the pre-existing state" with the definitions of "pollution" and "environmental damage." The proposal before the Senate House today is already a sort of compromise between an extensive vision of environmental damage, which is completely free of rules, and that which obliges the detection of the crime of damage to the violation of another already sanctioned rule. On the other hand, it should be precisely the determination of a compromise or a deterioration of the environment, or the premise that the determination of an environmental deterioration - if the responsibility of an individual is identified in the appropriate locations - can lead to the detection of an environmental pollution offence. This compromise, as I said, is already defined by the rule in terms of pollution, as the article itself recalls: it would therefore be clearer to make it more explicit also in this paragraph. The definition of pollution in Legislative Decree No 152 of 2006 refers to amendment 1.217, which reads as follows: It constitutes pollution the direct or indirect introduction, as a result of human activity, of substances, vibrations, heat or noise or more generally of physical or chemical agents, into air, water or soil, which may harm human health or the quality of the environment, cause deterioration of material goods, or damage or disturbance to recreational values of the environment or other legitimate uses thereof. It should be recalled that the legislation, already in force, is mainly concerned with restricting the extent of the direct or indirect introduction of substances, in the presumption that the limit constitutes an environmental safeguard or does not exceed the capacity for self-purification, so that they do not appear to have effects in the near future or in the short term. This leads to a sort of negative right to pollution, for example in terms of emissive bubbles or annual quantities of emissions allowed for pollutants of greatest interest. This kind of harmful right to pollution, moreover, facilitates, on the part of the companies, their removal from responsibility, in particular in cases where, by the result of accumulation over time, environmental compromises are determined without any specific related violations, such as the overcoming of the emissive limits. The other amendment to which I referred is 1.218, which tends to include the definition of environmental damage, always with reference to the code of the environment of 2006, where in article 300, paragraph 1, was defined as such any significant and measurable deterioration, direct or indirect, of a natural resource or of the utility assured by the latter. Now, I realize that it may be difficult to pass on the environmental concepts expressed by these four amendments as well, but I believe that their reproposition must be confirmed at this time. With reference to the last amendment, 1,212, the deletion of the adjective "durable" was requested, as was the Commission's request for the adjective "relevant". This is the approach that is given in order coordination with respect to the environmental code; moreover, in view of the indications already made by the rapporteur and the representative of the Government, we will consider in the examination of the amending proposals whether to withdraw or submit these amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u116	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am referring to what Senator De Petris has said, which has limited her illustration to the 24 amendments that should be voted on today. She has not claimed that regulatory practice provides for the illustration of all the amendments relating to the article. Since the amendments in the file are all related to Article 1, we would like to know whether it allows this type of limitation to the first 24 amendments: then tell us - even for our own economy of work - how much page and to what number of amendments we have to explain, because we will present the other amendments on Tuesday. Otherwise, we should explain all those referred to in the article, although we know that they are not going to vote today. I understand that that invoked by Senator De Petris is an innovative practice, but since you have not claimed anything, I would like to know which of the two roads to take.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u117	Illustration is intended as a whole of all the amendments to an article, as it has always been. I would remind you that then there are explanations of vote and the possibility of speaking on individual points. Let us then take up the explanation of the amendments to Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u118	Mr President, I would like to ask my fellow Members a little bit of attention, partly because when Senator Casson spoke I had a real hard time understanding what he was saying, because of the buzz. Look, ladies and gentlemen: some of the requirements of my amendments or others are also represented in the amendments of Senator Casson and Senator Nugnes. It is therefore a question of assessing in concrete terms what formula can be such as to guarantee respect for the environment and create in our country a culture of environmental protection. General expressions cannot be used. Senator Casson is right when he points out the need to eliminate the term "durable" with reference to the compromise and deterioration of the existing state, which has no meaning, so much so that we too have proposed to eliminate it and other senators have done so. At the same time, with Amendment No 1,211, at my first signature, it is proposed to identify what environmental damage is and what deterioration is, specifying that it should lead to a cost of more than EUR 600,000 for the restoration of the polluted or damaged property. It is therefore a certain and peaceful fact, which removes any discretion from the judge and gives the citizen who is wrong in the certainty that he has committed a crime, which is a serious crime, at least as far as I am concerned. This wording may certainly not be shared: I am addressing Mr Casson, who rightly raises the problem of specifying what environmental pollution damage is. Senator Casson's amendment 1.217, which was also mentioned by Senator De Petris, is an attempt to define it (even if the expression "could harm," using a conditional verb, which is completely wrong from the point of view of regulatory technique), but Senator Casson's amendment 1.218 raises the problem seriously: if you are not careful you will be voting on amendments that will create a disaster in our criminal system. Correctly, Senator Casson's amendment says that it constitutes environmental damage to any significant and measurable deterioration. To speak of measurable deterioration means to give a certain indication. That is why in Amendment No 1,211 I refer to the cost of restoring the polluted or damaged property: we can also establish a cost of restoring more than EUR 300,000 or any other figure, but we must give a certain element, because without the certainty of the rule and identification of the relevant criminal case, go to vote on a completely generic article, which has no consistency with the fundamental principles of criminal law. I therefore turn to the amendments relating to the third paragraph of the article: I hope, Mr President, that when we talked about voting on the first 24 amendments, we also included the twenty-fifth amendment, which is Amendment 1,225, which is my first signature, identical to the previous one, signed by the rapporteurs. In the first paragraph of Article 1, in the third paragraph of Article 1, the second paragraph is replaced by the following: 452‐ bis is in fact established that: The same increase in penalty shall be applied if the risk of impairment or deterioration arises. This formulation, related to the effect of the second paragraph, relating to goods (when there is a landscape, environmental, historical constraint) what did it mean? You couldn't tell. The danger. But what does the unidentified danger of conduct mean? Reason in terms of trying. Then, the Government, has realized the error and makes us an amendment, the 1700, which is not understandable because it says that in paragraph 1, the first paragraph is Art. The third subparagraph of Article 452-a is replaced by the following: 3 (a.k.a.) 3 (b.a.) 3 (b.a.) 3 (b.a.) 3 (b.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a.) 3 (c.a. The penalty provided for in the first paragraph shall It is no longer a different configuration of the aggression, but it becomes an attempt, probably, of the crime referred to in the first paragraph. The first paragraph is an arson. I ask you, then, what does it mean to have a reduced sentence of a third when we have the penalty for the attempt. Then we want to identify what is the course? What does "danger" mean? Non-compliance with environmental protection rules, which can undoubtedly lead to danger, but we cannot just write down "danger" without identifying the conduct that puts it in place, as is the case - read it - with Article 56 of the Criminal Code as regards the attempt of arson, and this is an arson. Before making mistakes, Secretary, please explain to us what this amendment means. If it's an attempt, let's go back to the formulas that are needed to get the attempt. Is this a crime of an unidentified danger with conduct? This would really mean that then in this country you can write about everything, because to say that there is a danger without identifying the conduct that can determine it means to expose any citizen to a criminal initiative, unfounded or founded that it is, because also the judge will have the greatest freedom of interpretation without any element of certainty that derives from the norm. That is why I insist on the amendment of the rapporteurs 1,224 and also on my 1,225 deletion of the third paragraph, and I shall therefore vote against the amendment of the Government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups.]] 11:53 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u119	Mr President, before I start the illustration, I would like to ask a question. I would like to ask the Presidency whether I should already indicate the amendments I intend to withdraw or not.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u120	If you announce them, it is better for the debate; we take note of them.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u121	LUCIDES (M5S). So I can already announce that we are withdrawing amendments 1,291, 1,313, 1,334 and, above all, the 1.335 that has been wrongly included in the dossier because it has actually already been included in the text proposed by the Commission. Anyway, if you want, I can bring you the list. On the other hand, I would like to turn to the explanation of the amendments that we maintain, and the first two are 1,216 and 1,254, two simple amendments with which we basically intend to define with a better understanding the object of paragraph 1. In particular, it seemed relevant to us to highlight the fact that with the ecosystem it is also possible to identify a very small portion of an environment, which could also be a limited area in a few tens of square meters or in a few hectares; therefore, the definition of one or more ecosystems seemed more correct. Coming to the other proposals, with amendment 1,269 we want to highlight something that can already be seen in practice. What we are asking is that the penalty for any damage caused by environmental pollution has increased if, in the area affected by pollution, agricultural products are present, for example, in the DOC, PDO and DOCG names. This comes from a practical case found in my territory. I refer to the site of national interest Terni Papigno, where there are productions classified with these names and therefore we are faced with a contradiction: on the one hand the State recognizes an area as a site of national interest, therefore affected by environmental reclamations and therefore clearly characterized also by a strong pollution, and on the other it recognizes in the same area of agricultural productions of excellent importance. This is a contradiction which must be highlighted and, in our opinion, brought to the attention of the legislator. Another very important point for us is Amendment 1.296, which provides for an increase in penalties where, in the context of the management of a matter relating to pollution or environmental and health damage, there is evidence of omissions or in any case of the facts and actions attributable to public administrators or to staff of institutions or bodies. A principle of logic and common sense should instead see those who are involved in protecting health and the environment characterized by a morality that goes beyond normal custom and acceptance. That is why we have made provision for this. Not only that, many companies that have a strong environmental impact and an important ecological footprint are very often also equipped with environmental certification systems. In this case too, therefore, it would be good to bring to the attention of the legislator the fact that, where there is an environmental certification and a feedback of good environmental practices, in case instead we go to cause environmental damage, and therefore perhaps even a health damage, the penalties are rethought in an appropriate way. Finally, I would like to focus on the concept contained in amendment 1.335, which has already been included in the text proposed by the Commission, which I thank for having accepted: The proceeds referred to in the preceding subparagraph shall be placed in the availability of the competent public administration and bound to the use for the reclamation of the sites. This is a fundamental point, because very often we are in the presence of crimes, which in some cases also follow confisches by decision of the judiciary, and this is also true in large realities such as Taranto, or in other well known, and therefore there is the problem of being able to use the proceeds that have been made by these companies through the crimes themselves. We therefore feel it is right that these revenues should be used only and exclusively to remedy the environmental damage that has been caused. That is why this amendment, which we thank the Commission for accepting, highlighting and bringing to the attention of the legislator precisely this point, namely the constraint on the use of reclamations and the restoration of the places of the proceeds from actions or activities that have caused environmental or health damage. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u124	Mr Azzollini (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I am speaking to express one opinion, but also to focus on the work of the Budget Commission. This morning we have still not been able to express opinions for reasons not dependent on the Commission, in which often, in particular because of the constructive attitude of the oppositions all and because of the commitment of the majority, we work in emergency conditions in order to be able to follow the work of the House and the Commissions. Consequently, the Rules of Procedure are sometimes widely interpreted, using the forecasts set out in Rule 100 rather frequently, whereas that article is usually used in exceptional cases. It is true that we always use it when the rule is absolutely defined, either in favour or against, but it is always necessary for the Commission to be able to assess the financial scope of the rules as a whole, expressing its opinion. Therefore, Madam President, I would like to start by saying that we always try to do our job, especially when there are rules of particular financial importance but we always hope for all the rules, and then we follow the timetable, before the House and then the Commissions. From time to time, however, I hear the metropolitan legend (allow me this term entered into the common jargon) for which the Budget Commission does not deliver opinions. If it is an expression that you want to use, please refer to the President, so that, like Kafka, I am guilty of existence and that is okay. However, the Commission is not called into question, because he is always doing his work in a very thorough way and with the constructive attitude of everyone. For this reason, Madam President, although the Commission has learned at this time that the work of this House does not provide for the conclusion of all measures by the end of the sitting, it has worked so that it can provide all opinions under Rule 100. However, since there is room for consideration of the amendments, because the Commission will also meet at the end of the House's work, I will confine myself to expressing the opinion of nothing at all on Amendment 1,205 (text 2), which will come to the attention of you and the House at this sitting. On the other hand, the opinions on all the remaining amendments, which are easy to examine and come to an end, but it is right that they should be examined by the Commission as a whole, I shall bring them back to that forum. In any case, the House will be able to carry out its work regularly when it decides to take up this measure, because as soon as we meet in the afternoon we will have these amendments, in addition to those relating to other important measures. I apologize if it took me a few minutes, but very often I hear the refrain (I think so) of the Commission which is not working. It's not like that. If we sometimes have to say that the Budget Committee has not done its work, we call the President into question and that is all right, but the Commission does its duty to the full and we will try to assist you, as the leader of this House, first and then the Presidents and all the other Commissions. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u125	We take note of the objections and acknowledge that the President bears the weight of responsibility towards the Government. We appreciate the flexibility which will also enable the Commission to express itself as a whole.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u126	Madam President, I will present my four amendments. The first is 1,222, which aims to introduce a more specific indication of the increase in the penalty when the crime of environmental pollution is committed to the detriment of a protected natural area or subject to a landscape, environmental, historical, artistic, architectural or archaeological constraint, or to the detriment of protected animal or plant species. This reads paragraph 2 of this article 452-a of the penal code. In fact, even because of the homogeneity of the text, in other parts of the article, for example in case of traffic or abandonment of radioactive material, this more specific indication on the increase of the sentence is explicitly indicated. So my proposal is to expect an increase in the sentence to half. Amendment 1,277 refers, on the other hand, to economic sanctions and financial penalties in relation to traffic and the abandonment of highly radioactive material. The text provides for a penalty of between EUR 10,000 and EUR 50,000. I propose an increase from EUR 20,000 to EUR 150,000, in view of the fact that it is an even more serious crime than mere environmental pollution whose sanction, on the other hand, starts from EUR 10,000 and reaches up to EUR 100,000. So for the environmental pollution that I call simple you get 100,000 euros, while in the case of radioactive pollution you can get up to 50,000. I do not understand the ratio of this choice, so I propose to increase the sanction in case of pollution due to the abandonment of radioactive material up to 150,000 euros. The third amendment is 1.288, which concerns a question of homogeneity, because it introduces the specific wording "including agricultural" in relation to the biodiversity still affected or damaged by traffic and abandonment of high radioactivity material. The expression biodiversity, also agrarian, is, in fact, present in relation to the crime of environmental pollution, and we do not understand why, when reference is made to the abandonment of high radioactivity material, this case of biodiversity, also agrarian, should not be mentioned. The last of the four amendments that I am presenting is Amendment 1,304, which introduces the indication "exclusively or in competition" with regard to the association with criminals of the mafia type. Again, the ratio is the homogeneity of the text because, in the first paragraph of Article 452-f, it is said that the crime must be struck even when the simple association to criminals takes place exclusively or in competition. In the second paragraph, however, when reference is made to the association of mafia type, this indication is lacking and the one "in exclusive or concurrent way" is missing. I fear that in court this may give rise to controversy and problems in the application of the rule, as one would notice the disparity between the association with simple criminals compared to the one of the mafia type which, precisely because of this type, can be an activity against the environment exclusively but, most probably, also competing. I would like, in order to avoid any difficulties of interpretation in the courts, to make it clear, again, that both possibilities must be affected and, therefore, both exclusive and competing.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u127	Madam President, I have tabled a number of amendments, but I would just like to make a few of them which I think are important. The first one is self-protection. Water is a common good, so how to estimate damage to a common good? We are 90% water for which, when pollution is produced at an aquifer, I would say that perhaps the penalties should be increased. What is the cost - and this is happening in my country - of leaving 400,000 people without water? A two to six-year imprisonment? We gave Corona 13 years for two photos, without wanting to make any kind of controversy. This concerns Amendment 1,226. I would also like to draw attention to Amendment 1,275 and the text. What are radioactive or highly radioactive and ionizing materials? What do they do? We're talking about materials that could potentially cause damage like plutonium for 24,000 years. The uranium has a decay time of billions of years. And what do we expect? Instead of inflicting a sentence on imprisonment from two to six years or a fine from 10,000 to 50,000 euros, I would say we could also make a gift! Let us also think for a moment about the location of Italy in Europe: let us think about the Chernobyl case in 1986, the Superphénix power station in France, with its beautiful radioactive sodium. It is yesterday's news that we want to build a new large power station in Egypt, with the help of Russia. The text talks about the abusive import of radioactive material, but this - in my opinion - is a great danger, because in reality we are telling all those who are close to us to bring us radioactive material as well, because 10,000 or 50,000 euros are nothing compared to what it costs the actual disposal of radioactive material. We are saying: "Come and bring the radioactive material to our parks! Come and bury him abusively in our gardens! We are talking about damage that cannot be calculated in the order of tens of years: we are really bringing our country to ruin. My amendment wants to be just a warning: I would not stop at a penalty of EUR 2 million, but I would set some really astronomical figures, because otherwise we end up, first, to encourage the underworld to make money and then bury all these materials under our homes. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] I would like to know which of you agrees that a fine of EUR 10,000 is reasonable. Give me the address of your garden as well, so we publish it on the web and, at these costs, we can have the radioactive materials put in your garden. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Candiani.]] In fact, I also have 10,000 euros to donate, so I could pay the fine myself! These are insults to all Italians who truly live in a wonderful territory, where these laws must exist, but with reasonable orders of magnitude. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX and M5S Groups and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u128	Madam President, I have tabled three amendments, 1,232, 1,265 and 1,290, which have a dual purpose. Firstly, with regard to the new crimes of environmental pollution, environmental disaster, trafficking and abandonment of high radioactivity material, the objective is to predict what has been approved by the Commissions meeting 2a and 13a as a result of the crime of environmental pollution. It seems unreasonable that the provision of specific rules on the consequences for the health and physical integrity of the population is applied to the new crime of environmental pollution, and not to that of disaster and traffic and abandonment of highly radioactive material. In the introduction of these types of crime, the principle on which there is a close relationship between environmental pollution and effects on public health and, in particular, on the incidence of cancers, on which the Commission has long started a survey of health and hygiene needs to be reiterated. The second objective of these amendments is to ensure that the penalties provided for those who cause serious damage to public health, as a result of environmental crimes, are not thwarted by prescribed periods without the necessary criteria. In this sense, the limitation period for offences committed as a result of environmental offences, introduced by the draft law we are discussing, must begin from the moment of the actual cessation of the danger to public health. The purpose, therefore, is to prevent the expiry of the limitation period from beginning from the moment of cessation of the polluting activity. For certain diseases, such as oncology, which have a long period of latency, it would come to the paradox for which, when the harmful consequences of exposure manifested with the development of the disease, the crime would already be extinct. Therefore - in my opinion - it is essential that we pay attention to the terms of the prescription and adapt them to the appearance of diseases because, unfortunately, we have already had to witness episodes, such as that of the Eternit, where they have all been acquitted for the damage to health done on the entire population. [[Applause from Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u131	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Madam President, I take the floor for urgent communication from the Five Star Movement. Let us ask the House for a moment of attention. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this night in Carini, Sicily, the car of our candidate mayor was burned down in the middle of the election campaign. Cute, as you know who is Sicilian, is not just any municipality. It's a very high-risk municipality. We therefore call on this House and the Government to act immediately and to take all necessary measures to ensure that the electoral campaign in our country takes place in absolute tranquillity and that attacks such as these are not allowed, which are against the freedom of all. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u132	Senator Giarrusso, we all of course express solidarity with the 5 Star Movement candidate. We will point out your request to the Government, which will consider whether to report to the House on this incident.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u133	Madam President, since my amendments simply consist of an increase in penalties, the reasons for which are obvious, I do not think it is necessary to explain them.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u134	Madam President, in the meantime, I would like to say to President Azzollini that he has given us his absolute elegance for the communications he has just given us, because he failed to say that the Commission was unable to express its opinion this morning because there was no representative of the Government. This would also be quite ordinary, but, in the light of what happened earlier, during the debate on amendment 1,702, I think that the absence of the government in the Commission was not accidental, as can be the case with unmissable commitments. SOLLO, rapporteur. Yes, he was there! D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). This morning, in the 5th Commission, the government was not present, my colleague. President Azzollini has elegantly failed to say why the 5th Commission could not give its opinion and I, having been present, can explain it. Having said that, I would like to explain Amendment No 1,301 and then Amendment No 1,337, with a premise. As criminal offences, taking into account the principles of our law, I believe that the crimes at our examination should be considered as such in all territorial areas within the competence of the Italian State, which are therefore the mainland, the territorial waters and also the marine subsoil, with regard to the Mediterranean platform within the competence of the Italian State, i.e. where the State is authorised to grant concessions or in any case to regulate the maintenance of the seabed within the territorial platform within its competence. At this point I must stress, as we did in the debate at the time, what happened during the approval of the so-called Italy release. I am referring above all to my colleagues who have followed, as far as environmental matters are concerned, Italy and therefore my colleagues in the majority, Senator Vaccari, and all my colleagues in the opposition, the entire 5 Star Movement. It has happened that, with that forecast, the Italian Government has opened a window of illegality with respect to the Community directive. Until the approval of the release Italy, in order to obtain authorization of explorations, research and drillings for the purposes of oil extraction in the continental platform of competence of the Italian State, it took three authorization passages, and this until October last year. This one-off forecast, among other things, was absolutely in line with what the European Community established with the last environmental directive. However, the European Community's environmental directive has its time of implementation and we have, by implementing it by state law, set the deadline for implementation at 30 June 2015. Then there was someone who raised the ingenuity and, although we are already in the presence of legislation in accordance with the Community directive, we authorized with the release of Italy the so-called single concession, that is, a single authorization measure that eliminated the three passages already present in our legal and legislative heritage, and a window opened until June 2015 to issue unique authorization measures. Which means that there has been and will be a whole series of privileged ones, and I am referring both to those who were already aware of the rule that would have been enacted (as much as they immediately applied it) and to those who will be able to make it in time until 30 June 2015, within which these measures will be the subject of a single authorisation by skipping the forecasts of Community legislation. But this would be little, or rather it is already serious, but even more serious is the fact that Article 38 of the Italian Unlock provides for a forty-year duration of that authorization. The window has therefore opened: those who want to crowd, those who want to obtain authorization do so; so much so, when the Community directive comes in, now these concessions with a single title will be absolutely saved from any revisions because for 40 years (20 plus 20) they will be absolutely authorized. This would mean that, after the adoption of this text, the first to be called incorrequities for crimes against the environment should be the Ministers who proposed the legislation and the Parliament that approved it. Evidently for someone who forgets - as this text will foresee - the bottle of DDT distractedly in his chair, and is intercepted, commits crime; while those who destroy entire ecosystems can do so, because the laws of the State unfortunately allow it. The first to be accused of fairness, from this point of view, should be those who voted the law and those who grant this type of permission. My amendment 1,301 seeks to bring that forecast back to the Community directive before the end of 30 June 2015. I believe that the Government, having opened in October the window of the single concessionary title contrary to Community law, will come to 29 June to issue the implementing decrees because, otherwise, its cunning would be shorter over time. Then I would like to see us, realizing the political and legislative deception of which we have been the subject of as a whole Parliament, through that rule which was not clear and needed its interpretation, as a rather cryptic rule, we would close this window immediately with the adoption of amendment 1,301. In fact, it says that, since the adoption of this rule, we can no longer give the single concessionary title if not in the presence of the three steps of environmental impact assessment, as it was already in our legislation and as it is in Community legislation, but as it is eluded for now in Italy through the application of Article 38. President and colleagues, I would like you to reflect on what I am saying for a moment. Amendment 1.337 refers to the use of explosives for research and exploration of oil deposits in the sea. If we go to any fishing port in our country and intercept a fisherman who uses a few milligrams of explosives - as happens with the so-called bombs - and is discovered in this, rightly his boat, his equipment and the catch become the subject of seizure, with possible withdrawal of the license. The use instead of explosive practices in the sea and in the marine subsoil by the great owners of the national economy, which are the oil companies - just read the judgment of the Constitutional Court a few days ago that removed the Robin tax, which was the tax that did not weigh on the citizens but only on the oil companies, but we will have the opportunity to talk about this in the Budget Committee and, I hope, in this House, because the argument is not of little importance - it does not constitute a crime, despite it involves damage to the environment thousands and thousands of times more serious than those caused by the small fisherman I have now mentioned. As modern technology is more sophisticated and less impacting, I merely propose that anyone who uses explosives, especially with the indicated airgun technique, who invades kilometers and square kilometers of seabed, compromising biodiversity and everything he encounters in his explosive mass, commits a crime, and I think that this should be specifically referred to as a crime to be prosecuted. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u135	Colleagues, we greet the students of the Technical Professional Institute "Sassetti Peruzzi" in Florence, who are today visiting the Senate and to whom we welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u136	Madam President, I shall begin by presenting Amendment No 1,194, which simply proposes that the confiscation institution should not apply if the person who caused the damage has implemented the active repentance conduct described in Article 452-g. It would seem an obvious fact but, although it is obvious, this prediction in the text is not there. Therefore, without the approval of this amendment, we could find ourselves faced with a person who has caused environmental damage, who, except as provided for in Article 452-g, is punished with appropriate sanctions (or at least considered to be such) to the type of environmental damage produced; he spends a lot of money - which is right that he spends - to restore the environment (we can imagine a land), and then the good is confiscated from him. Frankly, you don't see the logic. I believe that this is a necessary correction, which I think I understand could be accepted through the adoption of this amendment or by others. Since Senator Caliendo is the first signatory to the amendments - not so many, but all of them significant - tabled by Forza Italia and has not been able to explain them all since, once again, we have before us a measure contained entirely in a single article, on the bad example of the stability laws, I would like to say a few words about amendment 1,248, which attempts to give a clearer and more precise definition of the environmental disaster. As others have said before me - Senator D'Alì and Senator Caliendo just now - this law as a whole starts from a need felt by everyone, that is to punish serious damage to the environment, damages that today do not constitute a crime to themselves and risk being punished only with administrative sanctions, which in some cases may seem totally inadequate to the damage produced. We are talking about phenomena such as asbestos pollution, which has also affected several areas of my Piedmont, in particular the city and the area of Casale Monferrato, but there have also been other cases, such as the land of fires. It is right to properly punish this kind of crime. But then - as has unfortunately happened for many other measures - we adopt a way of law-making for which we start from a real necessity and particularly alarming cases and worthy of sanctions and normative prohibitions and then, to a large extent in good faith, for the anxiety to punish not only those cases but also those in which the premises are produced for such things to take place, and maybe also the conducts that are premises for the premises, with the same meter and with the same penalties are punished those who are guilty of minor acts and those responsible for real environmental disasters, areas where entire agricultural productions are compromised and the health of people is endangered or can still suffer damage. We put together completely different phenomena, with a formulation that is already in itself the harbinger of misunderstandings and applications different from any principle of proportionality and reasonableness. If we then put on the will of some magistrates to give ironed interpretations, far beyond the reasonable even of what we read, we risk reaching very serious consequences. In fact, if even 999 judges out of 1,000 interpret the rules in a reasonable way (if the norm is written in a reasonable way, and here very often it is not), we would run the risk of being in the hands of that one out of 1,000 that will give a stretchy interpretation and as extensive as possible of the norm, which leads to punishing with very heavy sanctions negligible or otherwise worthy of sanctions (I think of administrative sanctions, fines and such things). In particular, with reference to Article 452-b, we propose to give a single definition and to remove the following very ambiguous sentence: the irreversible alteration of the equilibrium of an ecosystem, since there is no definition of the ecosystem. There are two ways to define the ecosystem. For example, from encyclopedia, the aerial ecosystem is defined as the entire atmosphere of the earth. It is therefore clear that who should commit this crime would be liable to the most imaginative and severe penalties. However, the ecosystem can also be understood as a small environment that has its own balance. Nor should the balance of a pond be altered, no matter how small it is - that is, of course - but one cannot think of applying to those who have upset, perhaps reversibly, the balance of a pond, the penalty of imprisonment from 5 to 15 years. But do we want to compare the penalties proposed in this provision with the penalties for murder or rape? Is it possible to have such an application? Another definition contained in the current text that is submitted to us is the one referred to in point 3 where it is stated that it constitutes environmental disaster also the offense to public safety, determined with reference to the diffusion capacity of the harmful effects of the conduct. This is an expression which, frankly, I would have difficulty explaining, even without putting myself in the difficult shoes of a magistrate who must determine whether this definition applies to the case before him. But what does it mean if the diffusion capacity is average? What is diffusion capacity? Frankly, there are definitions of vagueness such that - as someone before me said - we risk rendering the rules unenforceable. The conducts are so vague and we know that, in doubt, there should be a judgment for the benefit of the defendant (in doubt). Consequently, if there is any doubt, this rule should not be applied. On the other hand, there is the risk that this principle will not be applied and that, of course, with the noble shield of the defence of the environment (which is necessary and fundamental in our society, in our country, in our territory), they will commit from 5 to 15 years of imprisonment to people who have done absolutely marginal damages, people who have done something reprehensible, but perhaps out of inattention. The same applies to the even more inclusive Article 452-a on environmental pollution. I see amendments that seek not only to extend the penalties further and to make them even more severe (years, decades of imprisonment), but also - for what is worse - to make the definition of the crime even more nebulous and dispersive. I believe that we would serve the defence of the environment if we led this text back to what it was born for and for which many citizens ask us to carry it out: punish those who cause serious damage to the environment and not to those who change the oil to the car and then not throw the can where it should - for goodness sake - but somewhere else. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u137	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u138	Senator De Petris, has the right to intervene in a totally exceptional way, in order to carry out an integration due to the misunderstanding in the context of the debate. I would ask you, therefore, to limit the timing of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u139	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I had already asked the Presidency, but it did not answer me. I shall be brief, however, Madam President, because I have already raised a number of issues during the presentation of the previous amendments. In particular, I would like to draw attention once again to the definition of 'environmental disaster', which has been the subject of a long debate in the relevant Commission. Of course, I think that the text has been improved, compared to the one that has been fired by the House, although I think that there are still some critical issues - as you can see, as noted by other amendments - concerning first of all the definition of "environmental disaster," especially Article 1, as an "irreversible alteration of the balance of the ecosystem." Now, it is evident to everyone, and it is very clear in scientific literature, that in nature, in ecosystems, there is nothing irreversible: perhaps the human species - and we are approaching this - may fail, but nature always finds its own balance. I would like to recall the Chernobyl disaster: in that area, now, practically man no longer lives, but life forms continue to remain, because nature itself has found another kind of balance, harmful to the human species, which has been restored. It would therefore be absolutely necessary - in my opinion - to change and delete that adjective because, even if in the description it is placed alternately to other definitions, in points 2 and 3, I believe it would be a vulnus and the possibility of making irreversibility unprovable. The amendment that I am presenting proposes a theme that I have always highlighted, namely the definition of "environmental disaster" that precisely the Cassation gave us, in the sense of an alteration of the equilibrium of the ecosystem in relation to the importance of compromise and the expansionary power of the damage, together with the ability to expose to danger collectively an indeterminate number of people and to arouse an extensive sense of alarm. This is the same reasoning that Senator Casson used earlier, when he indicated the definition of pollution and environmental damage, referring to what has already been codified. For this reason, we have allowed ourselves to point out once again in this House the possibility of the definition settled by the decision of the Supreme Court itself. On the other hand, if we want to keep the text out of the Commission, I would like to put another question to the rapporteurs, Senators Sollo and Albertini: the text - in my opinion - could be completely cleaned up, through the elimination of the adjective "irreversible" (and there is an amendment in this regard too). In any case, building on a number of proposals from other amendments on the issue of limitation, it would be sufficient to add - but very clearly - the fact that the offence remains as long as the harmful effects of the conduct remain. And I think that would give a further element of assurance in the definition of the environmental disaster. On the question of the use of the term 'abusefully', for which we have tabled a deleterious amendment, I am not going back, because I have already explained it earlier. Always recalling the Cassazione, the adverb "abusely" means in fact "without authorization" and therefore, punishing those who cause "abusely" an environmental disaster and a significant pollution would mean, on the contrary, accepting that an environmental disaster can exist and be lawful or even authorized. Nor should I dwell on the amendment concerning the question of active repentance and therefore proposes to delete the second paragraph of Article 452-g, in which it is clearly proposed to eliminate non-criminality, of course, only in the event of a criminal offence. There is another issue on which I would like to draw the attention of the Government once again: we have tabled amendments 1,293 and 1,294 - and so did Senator Cirinna - which also aim to introduce the crime of trafficking, marketing, capture, detention, killing or illicit destruction of specimens of species of flora and fauna protected by the Washington Convention. I know that undersecretary Ferri has also worked to try a reformulation that could somehow find acceptance. In this connection, I would like to point out that we have discussed a great deal in recent days and days of ecocomaphy, but the trafficking of animals belonging to the Washington Convention list, in terms of crime and volume of trafficking, is no less important. It is not by chance that massive dossiers are continually published on this subject. I would also remind you that these are not isolated cases, but they are very often phenomena managed, again, by organised crime. I would like to make this point in order to anticipate the argument that this issue is outside the scope of the measure under consideration. I therefore call on the Government to reflect on the possibility of accepting amendments 1,293 and 1,294, even in a reworded version. I conclude by asking Senator D'Alì to be able to add the signature to Amendments 1,301 and 1,337. [[Senator D'Alì's consent. Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u142	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I could subscribe to an amendment tabled by Senator Caliendo and explain it, that is, if possible, I would like to speak in my capacity as President of the Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have the right to speak freely on the article. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am of course addressing all the senators, particularly those who are lawyers or who, like me, have had the opportunity to humbly go to the world of law. I address myself in particular to the rapporteurs and to the Undersecretary Ferri, who sums up both political connotation and legal connotation. I do not discuss the provision in the third paragraph of Article 452-a and the fourth paragraph of Article 452-b because it is already affected by the amendment by Senator Caliendo and, in particular, by the amendment by the rapporteurs. However, I would like to raise a very serious problem, which, in my opinion, has not been solved by the intervention of Senator Nugnes, who has anchored to a completely innovative legal proposition with respect to jurisprudence and doctrine: a legal proposition which will probably have its fortune, but which is currently disappeared by both jurisprudence and doctrine. You see, Undersecretary Ferri, you, in amendments 1,700 and 1,701, imagine a lower penalty for a crime of danger of environmental pollution and environmental disaster. Keep in mind that Article 452-c provides for the possibility that both environmental pollution and environmental disaster will be affected. So, Undersecretary, let me get this straight: do you agree with me that environmental pollution and environmental disaster are arson crimes? I think so, also because otherwise it would not make sense Article 452 -quater which provides for the manslaughter hypothesis: they are arsonous crimes of event. It agrees with me, Undersecretary Ferri, that at the moment when the damage is not realized, that is, the event, but it poses only in danger that event, we are in the hypothesis, being the presupposition of malicious crime, of the attempt (the person who carries out suitable acts, directed in a way that is not equivocal to the event) and the suitability is not the criterion of detection of the danger? So, you explain to me how the government can make such an amendment, imagining a figure, within an arsonous crime, different from the attempt, that would be based on this: I abuse, dolly (this is my will), I put in place an action that does not want to reach the event but only put in danger. What's the difference with the attempt? Are you aware, Mr Ferri, of the difficulties involved in applying this rule in practice? How can the judge find the criterion of distinction between the attempt and the hypothesis that you are suggesting, that it is a danger offence related to an event crime, but that differs from the attempt? And so, since I know very well the reason why this rule has been included, I know that you will entrust the resolution of the problem to the Legislative Office, but allow me, who have been a modest magistrate, to give you a small suggestion. CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Modesto doesn't. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Modesto yes, but not as not presumptuous (I am, I am Sicilian, there would be more!), rather as of little importance. Allow me, I repeat, a modest magistrate, to give her a piece of advice: if you want to include the particular danger because you need it in Europe, put it in the context of the manslaughter of environmental pollution and environmental disaster. In this way you save the possible procedures in Europe, being however covered on the arson hypothesis from the attempt to put in danger, and save what I personally care a little'more, that is the existence of a system not abnormal, that is that there is no deviation from the system that is not inspired by any of the general criteria of the order. Since the government will have to reflect - I hope very little - on the withdrawal of amendment 1,702, take the lead, if anything there should be time, to reflect on this issue too, that - let us be frank - it is not a big issue of law, but it seems to me quite simple, on the basis of the general criteria, so simple that I was able to see it too. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u145	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, it seems to us that we have understood that the determination adopted by the Presidency is to present today all the amendments and therefore not to confine ourselves to the only 24 that should be put to the vote today, and this is because of the rule that requires a single illustration for each article, which was raised, if I am not mistaken, by Senator D'Alì. In the interests of common sense and reasonableness, however, I wanted to invite the Presidency and the House to consider whether and how it would be useful to present today amendments which we shall be voting on in five days' time, on such a sensitive and sensitive subject. Even in the face of the rule of law, which for us more than for others is often an anchor of salvation compared to forced interpretations against minorities, in this case, if there were no opposition from other political groups, in unanimity, because our position is really not motivated by any obstructionist or instrumental intent, I believe that each of us would have liked to evaluate the illustration of individual amendments in the uniqueness of the parliamentary debate. I repeat that it would seem difficult to do this five days away, unless each of us has the diligence to take notes on each amendment, whereas it seems to me that it would be useful for everyone to be able to pass the vote on the first 24 amendments today and finish the illustration of the few amendments that I believe are still missing on Tuesday, in order to ensure a minimum of uniqueness in the illustration, evaluation and expression of the vote. I take the opportunity to have the floor, even with all due respect due to President Palma and with the necessary evaluation and meditation of the remarks he has made, to point out that I have some slight doubts about his objections about the attempted crime and the admissibility of the crime of danger in the presence of a case of crime that is expected both in arson and manslaughter. I reserve the right to carry out an in-depth examination, which takes longer, but I believe that the hypothesis of the attempt is abstractly and perfectly applicable to the intentional hypothesis provided for in the first paragraph of Article 452-b of the Criminal Code. As the rule of Article 56 is laid down for each type of crime, i.e. it is not a standard typical of certain categories of crime, but it applies to all cases where there is a conduct that is carried out in several actions, I do not believe that the case of danger crime, included in the government amendment, can create systematic upheavals with regard to the contemporary existence of the figure of the attempt. However, I reserve the right to make a more in-depth counter-deduction than was illustrated by President Palma.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u146	Senator Buccarella, on the issue that you have raised, which is intended to call for a timely debate where the subject of debate is being discussed in this House, the general debate has ended, but the Presidency reserves the right to give ample margin for explanations of vote and therefore to go on the subject as soon as these matters arise, bearing in mind the particularity of the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u147	Madam President, I would like to raise the matter with regard to the explanation of the amendments (we know that the general debate is over) because it happened that Senator Nugnes, even at my invitation, because at first it was thought that the explanation of the amendments was limited to those 24 that we would vote on today, had interrupted her illustration on the basis of a assumption that it proved wrong. I would therefore ask you to ensure that, as Senator De Petris has been granted an integration of the times for the illustration, the same possibility is given also to Senator Nugnes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u148	If Senator Nugnes wishes to extend the illustration of her amendments, she may speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u149	Madam President, I would like to explain Amendment No 1,300, which adds to Article 452-e (Impairment of control) also the cases of omission and fraud, which we consider to be absolutely important. On the other hand, I would like to set out Article 452-g (Operational Review). This is a very painful point, because the Commission has included non-criminality with regard to manslaughter, and we therefore call for the deletion of the second paragraph of that Article. Again, as far as relapse is concerned, we would like to make it clear that industrious repentance cannot comprehend recurrent behaviors, because it cannot be a norm to heal them ex post. With regard to amendment 1,328, on seizure and confiscation, although confiscation is already included in the measure, we know that without a conservative or preventive seizure of assets we will hardly be able to be right about them, so we believe that this amendment is absolutely important, always referring to the Pecorella report which made a long reflection on the point. In our view, amendment 1.336 on the non-reclamation of land is also very important. Here too, I refer to the Pecorella report, because, with regard to this type of crime, we are experiencing an anomaly that needs to be healed. In fact, the omission is regulated by Article 257 of Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006, which provides that anyone who does not provide for a reclamation in compliance with an approved project is punishable; however, clearly this means that there is no punishableity if there is no administration that has provided for the realization of the project and there is no project. This amendment, which was also tabled in the Commission, was incorporated by the rapporteur in a rewording, but then in the debate I was asked to withdraw it in order to reword it. I have accepted the Commission's suggestions, withdrawn it and reworded it accordingly, so I hope that a favourable opinion can be given on it. As far as the possibility of even more specific measures on environmental crime is concerned, two amendments to my first signature refer to the penal code. I have also referred to these proposals in general, since this is a continuing crime, our assessment is that the prescription can only begin when the effects have ended. I have also put forward proposals concerning the State Forestry Corps, which I very much care about. They were submitted as sub-amendments to the rapporteur's amendment in the Commission, but they are now in themselves, because the rapporteur's text has been presented in a different way. However, I would ask for a moment of reflection on the part of the Government, because these proposals are also extremely important and are being called upon by the Body. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u150	Madam President, I was absent just now when you called me to explain, because I thought and hoped to be able to explain the amendments on the very day of the vote. Instead, now, trusting that colleagues and colleagues will diligently take notes, I will present a few amendments, on which I call for meditation and which will be voted in five days' time. Amendment 1,267 provides for the prohibition of the possibility of defining by the plea, by the application of the penalty at the request of the parties, the crimes we are talking about. The reason is obvious, and it is not only punitive and sanctioning. Since we already foresee the possibility of an active repentance and a penalty discount consisting in all cases in which the accused puts in place those conducted to restore the state of the places, to put in safety and to reclamation, then it seems really unreasonable to give the possibility to the suspect, accused and potential guilty, to obtain the same penalty discount, or in any case a remarkable discount of penalty, in the same way and without providing for the virtuous fulfillments provided for by the repentance. Another amendment to my first signature is 1.295 which introduces environmental fraud whenever false ideological material on transport documentation has to be sanctioned. With amendment 1,302, to the association of criminals already provided for in the basic text, I propose a rewording that includes not only the associations referred to in Articles 416 and 416-a, but also those carried out under Article 260 (organized activities for the illicit trafficking of waste) of the Single Act of the Environment (Law 152 of 2006). In conclusion, Amendment 1.0.304 proposes exemption of the payment of the unified contribution only in cases of refusal of access to information of an environmental nature and in all disputes of an administrative type where associations, citizens or bodies are seen to deny access, perhaps unmotivated, and, in order to be able to bring to administrative justice, they are obliged to contribute with the payment of the unified contribution, the amount of which - as we know - is very high in recent years. Finally, on the sub-amendments relating to government amendments, I have already said that, in the denied and undesirable hypothesis in which the Government should not withdraw its amendment 1,702 (only in that case, which will certainly not happen), there is a sub-amendment at my first signature which introduces the same principles as in amendment 1,267, on the prohibition of pleas for environmental crimes, and a guarantee of civil action, both in criminal proceedings and before the civil court, also for territorial associations to protect environmental goods, to which the substantial abolition of the government amendment in question is linked. This as a last resort should the Government (but this will not happen) not withdraw the unfortunate amendment 1,702. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u151	I call for the withdrawal of all amendments from 1,200 to 1,223 including 1,205 (text 2). Otherwise, the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u152	Madam President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur. I also wanted to reply to President Palma, but I will do so when we examine the subsequent amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u153	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u156	GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u157	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u159	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, I rise to announce the 5 Star Movement Group's vote against Amendment 1,200, tabled by Senator Fucksia, for a simple reason. In our view, the amendment is not updated with respect to the text approved by the Commissions, since it proposes the formula to which the original text was binding the crime of pollution and then the one of disaster, i.e. the violation of laws, regulations or administrative provisions specifically aimed at protecting the environment. For the rest, the amendment would have been appropriate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u160	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u162	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, my colleague, Mrs Fucksia - I read the shorthand report, so I do not want it - just now she said to us: 'Links, I invite you to listen to me because it is really important. In the preamble, I stress that I am very critical of this bill, which in some respects is also unconstitutional, and quotes Articles 12 and 40 of the Constitution. Now, my colleague must excuse me, but Article 12 of the Constitution concerns our flag, while Article 40 refers to the right to strike. I have been careful, but I am in difficulty to understand why two articles of the Constitution have been cited, saying that this text is unconstitutional, referring to the Italian flag and the right to strike. In any case, Madam President, since I have the floor for an explanation of vote on Amendment No 1,200, I would invite my colleagues - including Mrs De Petris, who has read us the interpretation of the Cassation - to be careful, because the procedural truths are different from the scientific truths. When Bellarmino condemned Galileo or Giordano Bruno, the truth was far from scientific. Referring then to what Mr Malan said a moment ago, I invite you to read what the Treccani says or the vocabulary of the Italian language Zanichelli when he gives the definition of ecosystem, which I quote: The ecosystem is a fundamental functional unit in ecology, such as the cell in the human body, is the whole of living organisms and non-living substances with which the former establish an exchange of materials and energy, in an area delimited, for example a lake, a meadow, a forest. I put myself in the role of that farmer who burns the worm in his field and obviously alters the ecosystem; I put myself in the role of that farmer who, by wrong, sows GMOs and who obviously irreversibly alters that balance: and we give these people 15 years? My colleague Mrs Bignami - I was here to listen to all the speeches - made the example of Corona. He set the example of the 13 years and said that they cannot be compared to the 16 imposed on Schettino. Well, that's what the government is doing, that's what's happening, that's what we're going to do. It turns out that we give 13 years to those who do nothing and maybe we leave free - because the 16 years concern the first degree of judgment, then in second or third degree we are convinced that they will decrease much - who instead has carried out real massacres. This, Undersecretary Ferri, is a demonstration of what Italian justice is at this time: far from popular will, not perceived as a protection capable of guaranteeing the right but as something very different. I conclude by saying that many judges, almost all of them, are carrying out the "cocomero" policy, greens out and reds inside, and therefore ill tempora for the Italians.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u163	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u165	FUCKSIA (M5S). Madam President, I would just like to make one point. I would point out that, of course, I was not referring to Article 12 of the Constitution, but to Article 12 of the prelegies of the Civil Code, when it is said that in the application of the law there is no other meaning than that made clear by the proper meaning of words. So, I invite you to make some humor when you need to do it. [[Applause from Senators Caliendo and Gentile.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u166	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,200, tabled by Senator Fucksia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,201, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,202 tabled by Senator Fucksia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,203, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators, which is essentially identical to Amendment 1,204, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,205 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Arrigoni and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,206. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,207, tabled by Senator Susta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,208 tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u167	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u169	PUPPATE (PD). Madam President, I am speaking to announce the withdrawal of Amendments Nos 1,209, 1,212, 1,217 and 1,218.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u170	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u172	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I rise on Amendments 1,210, 1,211 and 1,213. However, I would like to make a general comment which is as follows: these three amendments, as well as the amendments that have just been withdrawn from Senator Puppato, pose a major problem arising from the text and which relates to the fact that the text before our examination reports that anyone who is abusively causing a compromise or a lasting deterioration of the pre-existing state. All these amendments raise the question of the absolute generality of the term "during" which cannot but be left to the discretion of the judge outside of any criterion because what lasts ten days is definitely lasting, probably not lasting what lasts a minute but someone may think that what is lasting instead of ten days lasts a month or a year and anything else. As this is an exquisitely technical problem, the formulation of the rule, and keep in mind that in criminal cases the formulations cannot be generic, because they would go against the provisions of Article 25 of the Constitution and Article 1 of the Criminal Code, I would ask the Government and the rapporteurs for the provision of these three amendments in order to reflect also on them, considering that so much we could easily vote on them next Tuesday. I repeat, in my opinion, there is an anomaly from the constitutional point of view and from the legal point of view of criminal law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u173	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u175	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to add my signature to Amendment No 1,209 and I do so myself, because I think it is very interesting because it contains a clarification of the rule laid down in the text in our examination. In fact, the amendment provides for the replacement of the words 'a compromise or a lasting deterioration of the existing state', which is a generic definition because the term 'durable' can be said everything and the opposite of everything, with the words 'a pollution or an environmental damage' because we cannot let these gentlemen get away with it, when they cause damage to the environment. That is why we need a clarification and not a general formulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u176	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u178	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, first of all I would ask you to subscribe to Amendments Nos 1,209, 1,212, 1,217 and 1,218 because they take into account, as in part, Senator Nugnes' amendment 1,213, the need to have a rule that has that sense of certainty which President Palma also referred to. Amendment 1,218 has been withdrawn, but if you do not want to vote on an opposition amendment, perhaps mine, I am willing to discuss Amendment 1,218 of the Democratic Party in order to have at least the certainty of a rule that has a meaning. We are voting for something that will not give us any results. The environmental code did not work for the generality of the rules. The rules of the environmental code were general. We are making the same mistake and, then, I insist and make these amendments my own. However, Mr President, I would like the vote to be postponed and the government and the rapporteurs to be given the opportunity to reflect. It is not that we agreed to highlight the same mistake that each of us solved differently. The mistake is, however, there is and, therefore, I do not understand why we must hurry to vote on something that will probably be a legal disaster, other than an environmental disaster. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u179	Senator Puglia made precisely amendment 1.209 and Senator Caliendo also amendments 1.212, 1.217 and 1.218. I would ask the rapporteurs for their views on the proposal for a provision.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u180	The arguments are well founded, but we have decided to propose them again and, therefore, let them be voted on, even if what we have heard is acceptable in certain respects.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u181	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u183	BLUNDO (M5S). I would like to add the signature to Amendment No 1,212, which at least deletes the ambiguous word 'during' and I would like it to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u184	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u186	NUGNES (M5S). I would also like to add the signature to Amendment 1,212.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u187	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u189	FUCKSIA (M5S). I support amendment 1.218.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u190	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,209, tabled by Senator Casson and other senators, subsequently withdrawn by the presenters and made by Senators Puglia and Caliendo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.210, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Comments from the M5S Group and Senator D'Alì]] I don't understand what the problem is. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,211. [[Comments of Senator D'Alì]] Senator D'Alì, if there is a problem, tell the Presidency, otherwise we will proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u191	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u192	You have the right to do so. This is Amendment 1,211. The vote has not been opened. The vote had been declared closed and the outcome of amendment 1,210 had been declared. If you listen to the Presidency, the board can also be closed late. We are in Amendment No 1,211 on which Senator Palma asked to speak for an explanation of vote. [[Comments of Senator D'Alì]] D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). I wanted to know what amendment was adopted. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). No, no one's been approved. There was a ten-vote split. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). What amendment? PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Amendment 1,210. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendment 1,210 was voted on. The Senate didn't approve of it. We are in Amendment No 1,211, on which Senator Palma asked to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u193	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u195	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, there was a vote in which an amendment was adopted with the Government's opinion against it. VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. No! D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Why not? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No. We have the electronic system and I assure you that is not the case. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). You cancelled it because there was an amendment that was adopted. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u196	No.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u197	Senator Palma has the right to speak in an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u198	Madam President, I have to say the truth: I have no obstructive attitude to this measure, but I would like to achieve the objective of a rule, as Senator Caliendo said, that it was applicable and as fair as possible. If the wording of the text remains, the criterion for imposing the penalty after the declaration of liability would be solely and exclusively the durability of the deterioration and compromise. That is to say that a compromise or deterioration of no particular importance would become irrelevant from the criminal point of view only because of its non-durability. On the other hand, a deterioration or compromise not particularly relevant and slightly above the threshold of tenuity would become sanctionable precisely because of the durability. This, as Senator D'Ali has just pointed out, leaves essentially to a discretion of the court, not ringed in criteria, the identification of an element of the case and that is the durability of the deterioration or compromise. It seems to me, Madam President and Senators, that if the interest is to punish the facts of compromise and deterioration which do not have an absolutely marginal value of their own, but which are absolutely relevant from the point of view of criminal illice, it is in some way necessary to qualify compromise and deterioration. We have seen - and I am sorry - that the criterion of durability, being completely detached from the criterion of the extent of the damage, is not sufficient and would be a source of strong injustice. Senator Caliendo identifies a criterion that can be shared or not and can be differently modulated, predicting that impairment or deterioration will become criminally significant when they cause more damage than a certain threshold of money. This means that throughout the national territory, regardless of the discretion of the judge, tot capita, tot sententiae, the application of the rule will be absolutely homogeneous. As far as I am concerned, you can continue to reject the amendments on the spot, but this by giving rise to a general criminal case, which is such that it can involve heterogeneous applications on national territory and consequently profoundly unfair. It is clear that the Group of the European Forza Italia will vote in favour of this amendment, but excuse me, because there are two votes left at the end of the sitting, and next Tuesday we must meet, do you want to reflect on this rule in order to deal with it Tuesday next week? [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi. Comments of Senator Tonini]] D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). It's called common sense! PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Look, Senator Tonini, I am an old Member of Parliament and I know well the numerical logics of the majority and minority; and I know well how, in recent years, depending on who was most or less these logics have been used. I am not asking you to vote on a relevant political issue on Tuesday: I am asking you to reflect and vote on Tuesday by the force of the majority which, shortly after, you will be exploring (thinking that numbers are enough to give you reason) to try to modulate a provision that is in line with our order.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u199	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u201	TONINI (PD). Mr President, I have the utmost respect and consideration for the doctrine and experience of President Palma. However, I believe that it appears to the whole of the House - I do not know if it is clear to him too - that President Palma is precisely the President of the Commission, the Justice Commission, who brought this measure to this House. So we can all listen to such radical criticism and remarks about the measure, except - allow me - by the President of the Commission, Justice. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u202	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u203	No, he's already spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u204	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Senator Tonini, your speech would make sense if you were President of the majority, but I am President of the opposition! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Palma, you have spoken repeatedly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u205	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u206	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u207	MARTELLI (M5S). The reason why we are voting against this amendment is very simple. Not to give suggestions to those who want to make disposals of toxic stuff, but if I have a toxic load whose disposal cost is more than 600,000 euros, just divide it into fractions whose estimated damage is lower. I would have solved the problem. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The debris in the land of the fires went like this: the garbage stays here a little bit, a little bit there. That's the trick. In setting a numerical threshold, we have done nothing but give a suggestion, to those who carry out these activities, about how many fractions must be made to go below the expected threshold. That is the logical reason why we cannot vote in favour of the amendment. You can't even predict a money threshold. Think if I was an exhausted motor oil collector; it costs a lot to dispose of a cistern. Consider whether each of us, instead of giving it, would pour oil into the drain. We would all be below this fateful threshold and that would no longer be grounds for criminality. Therefore, we simply cannot vote in favour of the measure for logical reasons. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u208	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,211, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,212.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u209	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u210	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u211	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, for personal reasons I have not followed the whole process. However, I cannot fail to speak on this amendment, which simply aims to make the rule clearer and to delete the term 'durable', which, I believe, is disputed by a large part of this House, because it is not significant and of great doubt for the interpreter. I have listened to a number of speeches, in particular that of Mrs Nugnes, who, in explaining the amendments, made the proposal for the continuation of the crime, providing for its limitation from the last course of action. No wonder, because you probably don't know exactly what you're talking about. The continuation relates to several offences and it is clear that the limitation can only take effect from the time of the commission of each offence in the context of general conduct. I repeat that I am not surprised because I believe that it is not, as I say, equipped with adequate scientific instruments to be able to talk about these things. However, when the Government expresses its opposition to this amendment, which is purely a clarification of a criminal position, because it makes it possible to give the judge a clear instrument of punctual interpretation, I am surprised and I cannot even understand the reasons for it. On this amendment, I would also like to refer to President Palma's remarks and, in particular, to the wise suggestions he has made to the Undersecretary, ask the Government whether it does not wish to reflect and possibly dismiss it, since our work on this subject will not be completed this morning, but will have to continue next Tuesday. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Falanga, I must conclude that you have signed the amendment, which was not reported to us. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Of course, Madam President. IN THE CHAIR: MR GALLAND Vice-President We take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u212	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u213	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u214	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, for the sake of clarity, I would like to point out that I have referred to the continued effects, not to the act, and therefore to the complete elimination of any harmful effects produced. Evidently, therefore, I either misspelled myself or you misunderstand, Senator Falanga, also because I repeated the words of the pm that in the Cannavacciuolo trial had to express exactly in these terms. [[Comments of Senator Falanga]] I have therefore referred to clear legislative principles, not to my technical words. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u215	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u216	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u217	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, speaking in an explanation of vote in favour of this amendment, I must say that I have the vague impression, even with respect to the arguments of some of my colleagues, that having made this amendment by Senator Caliendo has the sense of achieving what we have all asked for, namely to eliminate that dissemination of vague adjectives accompanying the text (which will also be reflected in the definition of environmental disaster). Obviously, however, we do so with different aims: as far as we are concerned, voting in favour of this amendment, therefore the elimination of the adjective "durable" serves to avoid, in a very clear way, that in fact they can be used to avoid the punishment of the crime itself. Frankly, in the light of the previous amending proposal, in which a cost of EUR 600,000 is estimated, I do not know whether the aim is the same. As far as we are concerned, however, I would like to reiterate that the vote in favour is aimed at giving much clearer, clearer, precise and vague definitions, with these adjectives which then make it impossible - or possible - not to perpetuate and continue the crime itself. Proving that something is durable and how long it is, as is well known, becomes very complicated and complex.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u218	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,212, tabled by Senator Casson and other senators, subsequently withdrawn by the presenters and made by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,213 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,214.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u219	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u220	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u221	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am going to vote in favour of this amendment, because it is nothing more than the transposition of a European Community directive on what is meant by air deterioration. That is nothing more than that: I also presented it to the Commission, and then I did not re-submit it here, but that is the point of the amending proposal under consideration. This is therefore a specification which already exists in Community law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would remind you that the amendment has already been rejected.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u222	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u223	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u224	NUGNES (M5S). I make an explanation of vote against, of course, but above all I wonder, from a scientific point of view, how it is possible that the damage to the quality of the soil and the aquifers can be determined by the deterioration of the air. I believe that it would be a truly catastrophic event if the matrix "terra" or even the matrix "water" were compromised by the deterioration of the matrix "air." So it is written in the amendment, and I really did not understand. Either it is my limit or the amendment has been misspelled. However, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u225	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,214, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,215 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u226	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u227	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u228	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, since we have already had a number of votes and since we will certainly have to continue to examine the measure at next Tuesday's sitting, since some issues could be re-examined or re-evaluated, I propose that you stop voting and leave time for speeches on items not on the agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u229	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u230	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u231	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, I would like to speak about the press releases issued following the recent direct-dial TV broadcast, in which the journalist has prepared an episode containing grounds for criticism of the school's reform plan, which he would like to take forward by the Renzi Government, and which has been the subject of piccated and crazy responses, in our view out of place. We read some press releases in which, in view of the bleak conditions that... [[Brusio]] Madam President, if you do not call back some order, I cannot speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u232	I call on the senators who intend to leave the Chamber to do so quickly and quietly, so as not to interrupt the speaker. Colleagues, I also invite you not to talk to each other about the hemicycle.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u233	Montevecchi (M5S). With regard to the criticisms made during the episode of the program relating to school building, which was so buzzed by the Renzi Government, I would like to remind you that the funding for school construction, as a national priority, had already been prepared by the previous law of stability and that the release of the funds was wanted by the then Monti Government, on the basis of the release of the resources of the municipalities from the constraints of the Stability Pact, for a value of 244 million euros. Therefore, at least in the interests of the institutions, when the policy lines were presented, an account should have been given of what had been done by a previous government. I would also like to point out, again with regard to school construction, that the funds earmarked for the project for safe schools - we are talking about three different projects: beautiful schools, safe schools and new schools - are the most important because we are talking about structural interventions on buildings, so we are not talking about decorum or thesis on small maintenance, well, of these 400 million have so far been paid out and allocated only 44 million. Finally, in the press releases - and I conclude - we complain about the lack of contradictory within the episode. Well, I would like to remind this Government that it complains about the lack of contradictory... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. Montevecchi (M5S). I shall finish. I would like to remind him, I said, that for months we have been complaining about the lack of contradictory in the context of the tour made within the Italian schools by the Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] ; a lack of contradiction in the exclusion of students in this consultation within the tour on good school, as well as the armor of the Ministry of Education, with agents in riot resistance, to block teachers wishing only to deposit motions that contained criticism of the project on good school. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Get it done. Montevecchi (M5S). Here, then, the lack of contradictory does not lie so much within the direct take, but lies in the Government, which has been in months, is from the beginning of its settlement by Renzi, who does not listen to minorities, does not listen to citizens and does not listen to operators. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u234	Senator, you're wasting your colleagues' time.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u235	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u236	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u237	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Madam President, I continue exactly from where Senator Montevecchi stopped just to reiterate that the press releases that followed the broadcast are really surprising and even a little 'in contradiction with what the President of the Council Renzi told us when he arrived here and, with great sincerity and great frankness, told us that the school today does not need resources: that is what they are doing. [[Applause from Senator Montevecchi]] The great plan of stabilisation, of which they are chanting in their press releases, is nothing but the reunion between a legal staff and a de facto staff that has been declared illegitimate by the European Court; and it is a brilliant solution that was identified at the end of the nineties (I say this because there is a lot of confusion in this House about the school, which is compared to what was the school of the sixties). Today's sense of being a teacher at school is this: on a staff of 800,000 stable teachers at least 100,000 more are added, which are the so-called de facto staff, that is, those who are actually sent to the classroom. This recruitment plan, which is 148,000, actually does nothing but heal for 100,000 what is the judgment of the European Court that declared this situation of double staff illegitimate, so all the flagship of new teachers (fresh resources etc.) is there: there will be no teachers to decrease the pollack classes or to expand the training offer, and the children will continue not to be able to go to the museum because on a class of 26 pupils there is only one teacher: on the face of the open school. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Moreover, all this is financed with a round of rounds, because when we talk about billions here and there, we should have the intellectual honesty to tell where these resources are taken from. In fact, a billion is taken from the blockage of service shots, which is not seniority, is service, experience; several hundreds of millions are taken exactly from the money it needs for those 100,000 places, which are covered. In addition, teachers today are required to give up a career progression in order to finance the establishment of the staff.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u238	You have to finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u239	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). We would like this government to have the intellectual honesty to say things as they are and stop teasing us. It is very sorry that this House is empty, because when it comes to using the school to cover continuous inefficiencies, then we are all ready to declare our relevance to this matter; when it comes to listening to the truth there is no one. Let us hope that at least outside this operation that has been made to bring to the knowledge the truth may have a worthy follow-up, without interference and without the free information being blocked. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u240	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u241	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u242	PHASE (PD). Madam President, my speech follows yesterday's adoption of the bill on the crime of negation approved yesterday. In yesterday's meeting, much has been said about what the school should do to keep alive the memory of the tragic events of the recent past (sure, you can always do more), but little or almost nothing has been said about what the school really does. And I feel obliged to point out the high attention that many educational realities, supported by the world of associationism and also by local authorities, lend to the twentieth century and the tragic events of the Shoah. There is an obligation to report the number of school institutions that have participated in the Memory Train over all these years, for example. The initiative, organized by many schools in collaboration with the Provinces and the association Terra del Fuoco in various Italian regions, has been realized for a decade on a train journey on the route of direct convoys to the concentration camps to remember and reflect. The train in this case has iconically crossed the same tracks that carried the prisoners to the labor and extermination camps. An initiative that involved thousands of students from our country and many schools in the territory. During the journey, the children acquired an adequate historical preparation, led by educators and experts, addressing the issues of deportation, propaganda and racial laws, with the support of images and documents of the time, with contacts with the last witnesses. I have had the opportunity to follow this and other similar very commendable initiatives as a school manager. Also currently, the Memobus project, which has been alternative to the Memory Train for some years, offers a bus visit to Krakow and the concentration camps of Auschwitz and Birkenau, an experience that includes interactive lessons and especially contacts with the Krakow ghetto, the Jewish quarter and the Schindler museum and the memory of the many small Schindlers left unnamed. An educational project aimed at high school students that makes memory really stay alive. Mine is a consideration of these experiences, which have allowed and allow students to confront themselves directly with the spaces that were at the center of events that can now appear far away and incomprehensible, if not even unimaginable. A comparison with the last direct witnesses to understand, in addition to the facts, also emotions and fears. But in addition to the memory train and the memory of the Shoah, it is important what happened the day before yesterday in Montecitorio, when President Mattarella awarded the schools that are making light and that have promoted initiatives on the foibe, until a few years ago denied. All our deep appreciation, therefore, goes to the teachers who work in this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u243	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u244	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u245	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, in these days many Italians suffer from various seasonal diseases, but Carrara has probably burst cholera, since for more than a month 43 workers of the NCA shipyard have been isolated inside a room without being able to carry out any work, in the company of tables, chairs and a coffee machine. The story, precisely, is that of the ship yards NCA of the entrepreneur Giovanni Costantino. Personally, I had already been among the workers of the yards of Carrara, and on several occasions in the protests last August, when the case of more illegitimate dismissals had been raised, anticipation of the climate of insecurity and precariousness established by the current entrepreneur. The yard of Marina di Carrara, after having represented for years one of the pride of the Italian nautical in the world, has gone through a period of crisis, that it has made necessary a cession of the controlled society from Invitalia to the Italian society Sea Group. In order to allow the restructuring after the signing of the agreement on the cession, the opening of an extraordinary integration fund with the commitment to reactivate all workers by the date of 31 December 2014 was agreed with the trade unions. However, starting from January 2015, 43 people (including 2 with disabilities and 4 in the protected belt) undergo a systematic process of marginalization, led by the progressive foreclosure of means and interpersonal relationships essential to the performance of normal work; acts that can be attributed to the case of mobbing. It is also exciting to read in the local newspapers that the municipal administration and the mayor of Carrara compliment themselves for the skills of the entrepreneur! I would like to make it clear to this House that the employees in question, when entering the company, are directed into a room previously used as a business canteen and that they are in cross-arms, without contact with the outside world, in highly hostile environmental conditions. Some of these workers are highly skilled workers whose skills and professionalism will inevitably be compromised due to inactivity, with dramatic repercussions also on the future possibility of relocation to the market. The fact, unfortunately, recalls a dark page of recent working relationships: that of the Laf building of the ILVA, a real punitive lager department where many workers got sick, and where some were even moved to attempt suicide. The conduct of the Carrara company clearly aims to induce employees to abandon and integrate a whole catalogue of violations of legal norms, ranging from those that establish the prohibition of demise and emptying of duties, to those that prescribe the protection of health (also psychological) and the safety of workers in the workplace. That is why I am asking a question to inform the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and to activate all relevant bodies so that this situation can be resolved as soon as possible. What is happening in Marina di Carrara seems to anticipate that climate of total emptying of rights and respect for the dignity of the worker who will become regular with the approval of the jobs act, wanted by this majority and this Government. Italians, you're warned. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-390.ana.u246	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 14.02 p.m.
