ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on document LVII, No 3-a. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether he intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are a few points that I think we need to call for in order to help the debate. With this Update Note, the Government proposes to Parliament a revised macroeconomic framework compared to the forecasts contained in the Economic and Financial Programming Document approved in April 2015. The macroeconomic forecasts change and the policy objectives are modified accordingly. In the first field is the positive change in the GDP growth forecast, from 0.7 to 0.9 per cent in 2015, to 1.6 per cent in 2016 and 2017 and then to 1.5 per cent in 2018 and 1.3 per cent in 2019. This is a positive picture also confirmed by the most recent outlook of the International Monetary Fund presented yesterday in an international framework of slowing growth with many shadows and very few lights. The International Monetary Fund has cut its global growth forecast by 0.2 per cent this year to 3.1 per cent, and has defined modest expansion. It is the worst global growth since the last crisis: with the focus on the situation of emerging economies, whose slowdown hampers global growth. Italy, on the other hand, together with a few other advanced economies, sees its estimates rising by 0.1 per cent, for a possible 0.8% at the end of the year, lower than that of the Government that is confirmed in the trend and according to the analysts of the OECD also in the dimensions. The International Monetary Fund report itself points out that industrial orders are falling in Germany, confirming the effects on Europe of the global slowdown in trade. In this context, as can be seen in the updated note of the DEF under consideration, the Government proposes a remodulation of the net borrowing rate and the path towards budgetary balance resulting from the use of European flexibility margins. In summary, in the Note we note a net debt rate of general government, in relation to GDP, equal to 2.6% for the current year (according to the trend framework) and equal to 2.2% for 2016, while in the trend the net debt rate is equal to 1.4% for 2016 and the budgetary balance is reached in 2017. As we know, Italy is subject to the preventive arm of the Stability and Growth Pact due to excessive macroeconomic imbalances. For 2015 the Government had requested and obtained a 0.4% deviation towards the medium-term objective for the implementation of a series of structural reforms in the process of approval and implementation in the current year: a possibility foreseen by the Treaties between possible forms of flexibility in compliance with the Stability and Growth Pact in the presence of specific economic and social factors. An objective, that of 2.6%, respected despite the presence of an intervention that had to be made necessary after the decision of the Constitutional Court on pensions. For 2016, the government is proposing to Parliament, and therefore to the European Commission, a full use of the flexibility margins for structural reforms, with a further 0.1% being added to the previous 0.4%, plus a further 0.3% of additional flexibility related to the investment clause. The choice that the Government proposes to Parliament with this Update Note and the report sent to the Chambers as required by Article 6 of the law implementing the budget balance is linked to international, European and national macroeconomic scenarios. The growth of the world economy presents a uneven picture, with countries that continue to confirm their performance, as in the case of the United States that grows in the second quarter to a greater extent than expected, unlike Japan that after a first quarter of growth sees a setback and a decrease in GDP in the second quarter. However, it is the slowdown in the growth of emerging economies, starting from China, that worries and produces a possible general slowdown in global GDP growth. The state of world trade also sees a reduction of one percentage point compared to previous forecasts. In Europe, growth is differentiated and, in any case, lower than expected, especially if account is taken of the strong reduction in the cost of oil and the massive quantitative easing by the European Central Bank. It is as if Europe were paying on the one hand for its internal institutional unevenness, for its inability to have a unique subjectivity and a leadership capable of global initiative (not only from an economic point of view) and, on the other hand, for its inability to renew its economic and social structure, in a context in which the economy, if one thinks only of energy and mobility, can become less dependent on the fossil fuel system for its growth, while the demand for urgent attention to the environment grows and while inequalities produce a new demand for social regulation. In any case, to the current institutional system and economic model, European growth does not seem vigorous enough to drive the data of our country alone. The current condition is therefore that of a recovery, but it must be sustained and strengthened. Italy has better data than expected, so much so that the Government proposes an update on the increase of GDP, confirmed also by the interim reports of OECD and Monetary Fund. Consumption is growing, imports are growing more than exports, fixed investment is growing in some sectors, household confidence and industrial production are growing. These are the indicators that allow the government to raise, also for the two-year period 2017-18, the GDP forecasts to a growth trend of 1.3%. Employment data confirm a positive trend. The number of people employed in the second quarter is increasing by 103,000 and, if the unemployed are also increasing, this happens in a context in which the unemployed fall by 0.4%, i.e. those who have given up seeking employment and who, according to ISTAT, now reach a figure lower than in 1993. In this international context of cooling global growth and modest recovery in Europe, the Government considers it necessary to strengthen the positive signals coming from our economy and consolidate them over the next three years, with some choices on which there may be different assessments, but with an economic policy approach, initiated in 2015 and confirmed in 2016, which constitutes an element of discontinuity compared to the past. The choice, faced with an imposing public debt, is not the search for its reduction through austerity policies, but with a wider program of debt aggression through stimuli to the growth of wealth. Only with GDP growth, supported by public policies, and also through the temporary postponement of budget balance and the medium-term objective, thus with greater recourse to debt, can the trend change, increase wealth and thus obtain resources for a structural reduction of macroeconomic imbalances. It is in this sense, therefore, that the greater flexibility granted by the European Commission in the adjustment path imposed by the Community budgetary constraints must be used, and it is in this direction that all the political forces present in Parliament indicated the way for development, putting an end to manoeuvres aimed at austerity without growth. If there is broad agreement on this, it is perhaps on the concrete instruments and the effects of stimulating growth that choices and political confrontation must be concentrated. Now, the Update Note to the DEF deals with the elements of context and strategic choices, but it is the law of stability that becomes the instrument for adopting concrete implementing measures and it is on these that the choices of government and Parliament must focus. The choices have been partly anticipated and among them it is essential, as well as widely shared, the elimination of the safeguard clauses provided for in existing legislation, whose implementation would have negative effects on consumption. Moreover, this is the only instrument through which tax pressure also falls, which would go up by one point in three years to existing legislation - I say this because there has been a debate in the Budget Commission - while, through the removal of safeguard clauses and the impact of the 80 euro bonus measure, it falls to 42.6 percent in 2016, with further reductions in the following years. The elimination of safeguard clauses, worth more than EUR 16 million, the abolition of taxes and the planned extension of tax incentives are covered by expenditure savings and flexibility clauses for reforms and structural investments of 0.8% required by the Commission. In addition to the elimination of the safeguard clauses, the Government proposes to continue in the work of reducing the costs of the structure of the public administration; but, and in several parts it is emphasized the will, it intends to adopt interventions of fiscal policy favorable to the increase, that involve a lightening of the tax burden on families and enterprises. These interventions, which are to be translated into specific measures in the Stability Act, would concern, as anticipated by the Government in the debate in the Commission, first of all the cancellation of taxes on the first house, some taxes on businesses, agricultural IMU and machinery, in addition to the confirmation of some measures already provided for in the Stability Act 2015, such as the bonuses on recruitment, although probably reduced, and the ecobonus that contributed to the maintenance of the productive system of the building, stimulating in part the technological evolution. The financial effects of fiscal stimulus measures would be partly offset by expenditure savings aimed at increasing the efficiency of the public sector, continuing the expenditure review in 2016 and the following years, which ensures a large part of the coverage of tax cuts. In this respect, considering that the reduction in expenditure limits the favourable impact on growth resulting from the deletion of safeguard clauses, the Note considers that the adoption of a more gradual profile of these cuts will ensure that depressive impacts on GDP are lower than estimated in the development of the DEF. On this basis too, due to the need to continue without negative effects in policies to reduce the public perimeter, the change of the medium-term objective and the shift of the fiscal structural balance to 2018 are justified. I conclude my speech, pointing out some critical issues, emerged in the audience, on which the Government has already communicated, in the course of the debate, that it is working. However, I think it is useful to represent them, also because of the authority of the source: these are three critical issues. As mentioned above, the measures in favour of households are included among the measures provided for in the 2016 Stability Act. On this subject the Bank of Italy has emphasized that the frequent changes to the real estate tax of recent years could induce the families not to consider the relief now programmed as permanent. This is certainly an aspect that needs to be assessed, as the impact on the efficiency of the local finance system and on the services provided by local authorities, starting from the fight against tax evasion, also at local level, which can only be achieved in the presence of a stability of the rules, which has been absolutely lacking in recent years, but on which the Government has already expressed its intention to take a certain direction and to confirm it. In the same direction, of course, the observations made by the European Commission regarding the greater effect of stimulating the growth of tax measures on business and work than others should be taken into account, pointing out that not only the content of the measures to be taken but also the sequence of their implementation are sensitive. On this too, the Government has signalled the will, of course we are waiting for confirmation, to confirm a attention to the sequence. Secondly, attention must be paid to the continuation of the spending review process, which appears strategic not only for the magnitudes of public finance, but, in particular, for the supranational credibility of the economic policy implemented by the Government. The reduction of the public perimeter, in the presence of an already compressed expenditure on social security, health and staff, is probably not that quantitative objective for which the clamour of the public is often aroused, generalizing negative examples often individual, but it certainly represents an essential element of institutional credibility in order to maintain the confidence of the citizens on the quality of the intervention of the Government and of the Parliament. Finally, the same sensitivity must be placed in the direction of measures that can support the recovery of the Mezzogiorno, certainly through extraordinary and one-off interventions, but with the awareness that the recovery of the gap of those Regions requires constant attention, which is achieved only through structural investments, the removal of the constraints and the economic and social limitations present and, above all, a stable framework over time, both on the legislative and administrative levels. The constant change of these references, which must instead be a stable framework of intervention and evaluation by the State, also by local public administrations, can be a fundamental element, so that the system of enterprises, even with the interventions put in place during this period, can place the necessary and indispensable attention to the Mezzogiorno. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u6	I would remind you that, as already communicated to the parliamentary groups, Annex III to the Update Note contains the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012, which illustrates the update of the return plan towards the medium-term objective. Pursuant to Article 6, paragraphs 3 and 5, the resolution by which each Chamber authorizes the updating of the return plan shall be adopted by an absolute majority of the respective components (subline the expression "absolute majority"). Therefore, the examination of the document will end with the approval of two separate acts of address: the first, relating to the report referred to in Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012, to be voted by an absolute majority; the second, relating to the Update Note to be voted by a simple majority. Motions for resolutions to both documents will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u7	Mr President, I would like to make a brief comment on the subject of universities, research and high-level training in the DEF. Our exam is the Update Note; already the 2015 DEF provided absolutely important critical issues for this sector. It has been criticized by the union of students and many university associations as there is an increase in the premium fee, there are no funds for the right to study and overall the falsely meritorious system that is being pursued will generate a further gap between universities in the North and those in the South. I believe that in this Update Note the Renzi Government has lost a further opportunity to focus strongly on the issue of precariousness in universities and public research bodies, which is leading to a drastic reduction in the number of associate professors, ordinary professors and researchers in public bodies. In my opinion, a massive public investment in the field of university and research should be included in this Update Note, so as to bridge the gap between us and the OECD average of investment in the sector, i.e. 1.5% of GDP. This money should be found by increasing net debt and building on the fact that this type of investment should be outside the Stability Pact and European constraints. As long as the attention will not be placed strongly on an extraordinary plan of recruitment of researchers in our country, the field of university and research will never be able to restart and will always be penalized, with serious repercussions on the competitiveness of our country in the international panorama. This will be one of the issues that we will put forward in our resolution, which will be presented at the appropriate time in the course of this debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u8	She is registered to speak Senator Zanoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u9	Mr President, senators and senators, as far as the Italian macroeconomic framework is concerned, the forecasts in the 2015 DEF, approved in spring, are confirmed and improved in the Update Note, albeit in a slightly less favourable international framework than last April. In particular, Italy has a positive trend in GDP, as we have just heard, for 2015, from 0.7 to 0.9, thus an increase of 0.2. For pity's sake, we are cautious; without excessively laying emphasis, however, we can say that there are positive signs. This increase is a positive figure in itself, but it is also the confirmation of a good and prudent forecast capacity, which is not so frequent; a good forecast capacity that is also found in the confirmation of forecasts for the years 2016-2017, also slightly revised upwards. The Parliamentary Bureau of the Budget, despite the positive validation of macroeconomic forecasts, which are within the acceptable range on the state of the information currently available, nevertheless invites us to caution, and warns us of possible downward risks linked to international macroeconomic variables. However, we can say that there is finally a growth in investment of 1.2%, a recovery in private consumption of 0.8%, in conjunction with an increase in net exports of 4.1 percent. ISTAT's recent findings tell us about an improved labour market and the Note reviews the employment rate up against the DEF for both the current and subsequent years, showing an increase in wages. The growth of the share of new contracts without a time limit is essential to restore confidence in the future for young people, for women who can plan a relational and social life. This marks a definitely positive hashtag (#changeover) and the signals are what citizens expect and begin to perceive. The signs of the recovery are from many other indicators that improve; an example for all, that last week on the ignition of mortgages for the purchase of the house: more 86 percent compared to the same period last year. The forecasts of internal recovery largely depend on the measures already taken and being adopted, and the Note summarises the actions that will be included in the Stability Act, including the decommissioning of safeguard clauses, measures with expansionary effects, the reduction of the tax burden for businesses and households, the revision of expenditure and tax reductions. The combination of these interventions leads to a positive impact on growth compared to the trend forecast. In addition to these measures, institutional and administrative reforms are being adopted and a number of other measures are being taken. The implementation of the reforms, therefore, is not the useless fixed nail of President Renzi or of the Democratic Party and not even the achievement of European impositions, but is one of the prerequisites of a new development season and above all guarantees the consolidation of the signs of recovery. With Recommendation 3 the European Council invited Italy to adopt and implement the laws under discussion aimed at improving the institutional framework and modernising public administration. The normative path is important: the respect of the times is not only form, but becomes substance to move to the phase of realization, the application, which then is what really affects the scenarios. It seems to us that we are doing a lot here, working on the rules, but it is the next stage that counts. In its report to the Parliament, the Government updates the so-called return plan to the MTO, the medium-term objective, i.e. the path towards achieving the objective of balanced budget in structural terms contained in the 2015 DEF. The Government intends to make full use of the flexibility margins and temporarily deviate from the path towards achieving the objective. This, in order to strengthen the first signs of recovery of product growth and strengthen the fiscal consolidation process by this way. Is everything okay, then? No, there's still a lot to do and also how we move within the picture traced by the DEF and the Note will make a difference. A theme for everyone: a few hints to the problem raised by the Bank of Italy on local finance during the hearings. Beyond the choices that will be made in the field of local finance (on which there would be much to say), the Bank of Italy argues that the effect of the elimination of IMU-TASI taxation on the first house depends on the extent to which it will be perceived as permanent. You see, Mr President, I think this point is important, and I fully agree with it. Excellent not to tax the buildings for production, the so-called bolted, that is the machinery fixed to the ground and the agricultural land. This eliminates taxes that in 2014 and 2015 created a lot of mess and bureaucratic administrative problems. Let us simplify life for the citizens who produce. But we also need to think about who doesn't have the house and I hope that the law of stability will address this issue. I conclude with a positive note: the Update Note is courageous in using more than half of the maneuver to neutralize the safeguard clauses, even if in this way there are only ten billion left to deal with emergencies. In just one week we will see with the law of stability what will be the choices, the priorities. Neutralising the safeguard clauses eliminates those elements of uncertainty that neither the citizens, nor the entrepreneurs and the productive world like; it creates a positive climate of certainty useful to the growth of consumption. If we can also give some element of certainty for the drafting of the budgets of Municipalities, Metropolitan Cities, bodies of wide area, which in turn induce fiscal and regulatory certainty to citizens, we will have done a good job for the good of the country and of the citizens, of the citizens and of all of us and our children. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u10	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u11	Mr President, the 2015 DEF Update Note once again certifies the failures of the government's (and not only) economic policies, which, continuing in the wake of the two previous Executives, collects continuous failures and failures. For the fourth time in a row, governments that were to restore their public finances call for a postponement of the budget balance, which this time is moved to 2018. The new update contains the usual statements of the bold government, unreliable and out of reality. Italy has now overcome the economic stagnation and is on its way to recovery. Too bad that in 2012 - and I was present in Parliament even then - the President of the Monti Council declared: nothing is seen in the numbers, but I invite to see that the recovery is within us, it is something that is now within the reach of our country and I believe that it will come soon. He probably took the train in the wrong direction, because the shooting is not visible: there is no trace of the shooting. Italy is still facing major problems in terms of employment, internal market, household indebtedness, business and commercial failures, public debt and so on. In this situation of objective economic difficulty for the country, the strong flow of irregular immigrants is added, as an additional critical element. Frontex, the EU agency for border control, has certified that 156,000 migrants arrived in Europe in August alone and Italy in August had to open the doors to 38,000 migrants, bringing the total number of entries from the beginning of the year to 128,000. Unfortunately, there is no positive economic parameter. To date the recovery is not at all noticeable and GDP growth at the end of 2015 of 0.7%, as ISTAT says, or 0.9%, as the Government says in the DEF, is extremely low economic growth and substantially indicates a stagnant economy. I would like to remind you that since the beginning of the economic crisis, GDP has remained virtually unchanged: it was 1.610 billion in 2007 and is 1.616 billion in 2014. The public debt, however, has made extraordinary progress and we arrived in June 2015 at 2,204 billion euros: in the first six months of 2015 the Italian public debt increased by 68,7 billion; if we consider that at 31 December 2007 it was 1,600 billion, we had an increase of 613 billion in nine years: in short, we are at an average of 60-70 billion annual increase of the public debt. In June 2015, industrial production decreased by 0.3% compared to June 2014. The unemployment rate of 12% in July is slightly decreasing, but in the long run things will not be confirmed, because ISTAT claims that only in June 22,000 jobs have decreased (only Telecom has already announced that it will reduce by 1,700 units in the coming months) and this small improvement in the unemployment rate is the result of incentives to companies, especially Law No 190 of 23 December 2014, which has resulted in the exemption from the payment of social security contributions to employers in relation to the transformation of fixed-term employment contracts in 2015. In July 2015 40,316 VAT matches were opened and, compared to the previous year, we are -6.9 percent; in the first six months they closed 35,000 retail businesses. In the year 2014 in Italy there were 15,605 failures of companies, substantially more 9 percent compared to the year 2013, and they have failed on average 62 enterprises every day considering the working days. In June 2015 the fall in trade relations with Russia weighed for Italy for a billion and since the beginning of the crisis we have had less exports for three billion euros. These are the results of the government's policies and despite this dramatic and shocking economic framework, you continue to deceive and deceive the citizens, to make proclamations rather than adopt necessary measures that we have indicated over the last few months and years and which are reiterated in our motion for a resolution. Next year you will reduce taxes, via the IMU on the first house, via the IMU on agricultural land, you will remove IRES from businesses. But how do you plan to do so if you are unable to reduce public spending? How do you plan to lower taxes if you don't raise GDP? We'll see about that. Meanwhile, the only sure thing the DEF says is that it will increase the tax burden: from 43.7 in 2015 to 44.2 in 2016 to 44.3 in 2017. I remember that in 2011 we were 41.6 percent. In conclusion, Mr President, by taking up a sentence that I have heard, it would be a question of whether there is no need to cry. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u12	Senator Lucherini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u13	Mr President, this year's Update Note, unlike in previous years, marked by the longest and most serious economic crisis of the Second World War, is part of a context in which the first, although still modest, signs of economic recovery begin to be seen. This document is in line with the expansionary economic policy that the Government, with the support of the parliamentary majority, has defined since last year. The objective of the Government and the parliamentary forces that support it is to continue along this path by preparing all those necessary measures to support these first signs of growth of gross domestic product and consequently to strengthen the process of fiscal consolidation. Greater growth and lower speed towards structural budget balance are the features of government economic policy. In the new policy framework defined in the Note, a 0.4% deviation and consequently a postponement to 2018 instead of 2017 of the fiscal balance in structural terms is consistent with the Government's intention to outline an economic policy that can assist the economic recovery. The request for additional flexibility margins to the European institutions through a further update of the return plan compared to the one already authorised and contained in the DEF last April, has its own legal basis in Law No 243 of 2012, which allows further deviations from the policy objective in the presence of certain exceptional circumstances that may occur, firstly, in the slowdown of world growth and, secondly, in the still insufficient rate of inflation. With regard to the international context, what is most evident is the weakening of economic activity in China and in major emerging economies, with a reduction in global demand. The other aspect, which is a potential source of concern, is the development of inflation. It is certainly not a coincidence that the Federal reserve, in the last monetary management, has decided to leave interest rates unchanged, justifying this decision with a visible recovery, but still too moderate, and that the monetary policy of the eurozone itself has expressed itself, in the last Governing Council, with a commitment, if necessary, to increase intervention for the purchase of government bonds. It is therefore clear to me that, as confirmed by the Government in the Update Note, there are those circumstances which justify the call for additional budgetary flexibility necessary to finance a recovery that is felt, but it is still weak. However, the recovery of the Italian economy cannot be attributed exclusively to the ECB and to the interventions it has carried out strongly countering the ideology that aimed only at rigour and austerity. The merit must at least be shared with the Government of our country, which has contributed a great deal in Europe to focus attention on growth and employment, rather than on budgetary orthodoxy. In fact, if one can return to talk about a new beginning for the economy and employment in Italy, one cannot fail to acknowledge the Government that, in the definition of its public policies, starting from the previous law of stability, has carried out progressive reforms that have invested various areas, from work to the economy, from tax to public administration, to credit, just to name a few. It is thanks to these reforms that it has been possible to regain the confidence of the companies that are returning to invest, of the families that are beginning to consume more, of the markets that, with their confidence, allow us to obtain important savings on our debt securities, savings that can also be directed to finance policies of an expansive nature. It is not credible to say, as the opposition does, that, if the situation in our country improves, the credit is for the monetary policy of the European bank or the international situation or, even more seriously, to deny the improvements that are taking place in our economy. Italy yesterday, when we began to rule, was a problem for Europe. Today we are one of the drivers and drivers of the European economy. In the April DEF, government forecasts were conservative: the note we are looking at revises these estimates of upward growth from 0.7% to 0.9%. So I am asking the opposition senators, who were a majority yesterday, when these estimates were never revised upwards in the years they ruled: they were always revised either on par or in decrease. As emerges from the reading of the Note and as will emerge with even greater clarity and richness of details in the next law of stability, the Government intends to continue in line with the policies adopted in 2014. In the report submitted to Parliament, the Government indicated the scope for action under the next Stability Act. From this point of view, the choices that the Government is preparing to make must be read: first, the decommissioning of the safeguard clauses, introduced with previous legislative measures (avoiding the increase of VAT is consistent with the objective of not putting obstacles to the economic recovery); secondly, the elimination of the taxation on the first house, on the agricultural land and on the fixed machinery of the enterprises (the so-called bolted ones); finally, the reduction of the taxes on the incomes of IRES, announced in recent days by the Government, that it undertakes to reduce by about one point the IRES for a value of 1-1,5 billion per year, and then to bring it to 24 percent in 2017. On the other areas of intervention of the future law of stability, as stated in the accompanying report to the DEF, it will mainly intervene in the discussion of the law of stability. In conclusion, Mr President, despite the limitations and structural difficulties that still characterize our economy, the recovery in Italy is felt. Not only has the DEF Update Note revised growth forecasts upwards, but also the International Monetary Fund, in its latest analysis of the development of the world economy, has increased by one decimal place compared to last July's analysis of the Italian economy's growth forecasts, which in 2015 will be 0.8%, to reach 1.3% in 2016. The International Monetary Fund predicts in its analysis a growth for Italy in 2016 that can be at higher levels than other countries, even Germany itself, which is unthinkable in recent years. However, it cannot be denied that thanks to the structural reforms, including that of the Constitution, put in place by the Executive and supported by the parliamentary majority, the country has restarted. We are a country that begins to grow and carries out important reforms, as evidenced also by the analyses of the Bank of Italy, the Court of Auditors, the Parliamentary Budget Office and other forecasters, which indicate a recovery path that exists, but that needs to be consolidated. These data cannot be denied.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u14	Senator Lucherini, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u15	Mr Lucherini (PD). I have concluded, Mr President. The Bank of Italy estimated in its third economic bulletin for 2015 a growth in household consumption of 0.6 per cent per annum. We are therefore faced with important results, which must be carried out and consolidated in a process of reforms necessary to carry forward the development of our country. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Comaroli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u16	Mr President, we are debating, evaluating and verifying the DEF Update Note. This is a very important document if we think that it will then be the basis on which the entire 2016 Stability Act will be made, on how we will spend the resources and what the state's revenues will be. Mr President, I use the very few minutes available to highlight the regret that we cannot use this moment of general discussion to introduce a real debate, with us senators who highlight the problems and the government that gives answers that - I remember - would not be given to us, individual senators, but to the citizens. What's going on, I'm afraid? We are quotad, because we have to hurry and urgently, and we have to speed up. But then there are limits that allow us to say yes or no on such an important and indeed fundamental document. I would therefore like to use this speech to criticize the time management and the working system. As long as the Senate exists, we must respect it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u17	Thank you, Senator Comaroli, you even saved the two minutes you had at your disposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u18	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u19	Mr President, we are dealing with this debate in the aftermath of the new estimates by the International Monetary Fund on the development of the various world economies, which show a worsening of the overall scenario. In a nutshell: a downward correction in Latin America, the Middle East, Russia and the emerging economies of Asia (excluding China). A minor correction has been recorded for advanced economies: The United States and Japan are expected to grow by 2%, Europe only by 1.5% and Italy by 0.8%. In the world panorama, therefore, Europe is once again in step and the effects of the Volkswagen scandal in Germany, which will undoubtedly have repercussions on the entire German macroeconomic framework, must still be fully assessed. Even with these unknowns, Italy seems to have emerged from that shadow cone that in recent years seemed to characterize it as the great sick person of Europe. However, triumphalisms are completely out of place. The original forecasts of the DEF in fact painted a picture that did not bear the test of the facts. In April, growth was expected to be 0.8%, partly due to net foreign demand and partly due to domestic growth. The stocks, in turn, were not to make any contribution. The first two quarters of the year in the X-ray provided by Istat show a profoundly different reality. Foreign exports were 0.2% negative, domestic demand increased by a similar percentage. The algebraic result is a completely flat encephalogram, in which the only signs of life are found in the accumulation of stocks, which alone contributed 0.4 points to GDP growth. The observation of the data shows therefore that the original approach of the economic policy of the Government was not founded, which poses to all of us the problem of understanding why, despite those forecast errors, we are faced with a situation fortunately less dramatic. To answer this question, I believe that we must abandon the field of purely economic reasoning. The accumulation of stocks, although there were no market spaces, was the result of business choices oriented to a cautious optimism. The companies, in the hope of some recovery, have anticipated the developments of the economic cycle and accumulated stocks, in the hope of a future sale: they have done so - I believe - in the hope that the promised reforms will go ahead and be concretely implemented. The reformist cycle has indeed begun, but more could be done, indeed more had to be done, if the resistances within the current majority had not imposed a continuous and defiant parliamentary confrontation such as that on constitutional reforms, which obscured and marginalized the immediate interest for other problems, starting from that spending review of which no trace can be seen and which instead had to constitute an absolute priority, given the huge financial resources that will become indispensable to support that ambitious program that will have to characterize the next law of stability: cutting taxes, decontribution, neutralization of safeguard clauses, renewal of public contracts, indexation of pensions. In conclusion, the commitment to reduce the stock of public debt goes in the right direction, other things go in the right direction, but the vagueness of this Update Note is certainly not up to expectations and therefore does not cause us to vote in favour of it. I would ask that the remaining part of my speech be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes you to do so, Senator Mazzoni. Senator Molinari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u20	Mr President, Senators, Senators, already at the end of August the Government's intentions to anticipate, in the Note to the DEF 2015, measures of the future Stability Act, taking advantage of the first macroeconomic indicators that ISTAT would soon publish, predicting a positive development of the economy, even better than the prudent forecasts contained in the DEF. That's why I was hoping that the reading of the Note would reveal an economic policy that would be free from that austerity, the daughter of neoliberalism that has prevailed over the last twenty years. On the other hand, we find only an upward revision of the estimates of economic developments, which denounce a gamble, which is also extended to the following years. This is also highlighted in the report of the Parliamentary Budget Office, which sees it as sustainable only if it abandons the caution previously followed and deviates from the forecasts of the major international bodies. Perhaps it is hoped that, by doing the tasks as probably agreed last summer between President Renzi and the President of the ECB, the German giant will be able to cope. On the other hand, let us find the courage to relaunch the European project and the full implementation of the agreements incorporated into the Treaty of Lisbon in Article 2 (3), which refers to the stability of the currency, but we are also talking about full employment and solidarity between States. Let this Government promote a new agreement that makes the European institutions free from the constraints of certain economic and financial powers, freeing and finally giving satisfaction to those demands transfused there. The cure for the sustainable recovery of our economy cannot be the bets, but the investments, starting with the public ones, and the industrial policies, which are completely absent also in this Note, where it is even expected a reduction in public investment and in which it is hoped instead in the taumaturgical effects of the usual reduction of taxes in order to increase the GDP. We are in practice on the sides of neither meat nor fish of the so-called expansive austerity, a theory of no scientific authority, denied by the IMF itself. As it is now peaceful in literature, GDP growth linked to tax reduction is lower than maintaining existing public expenditure, producing this latter multiplier effect than cutting taxes, not to mention the fact that it is closely linked to the implementation of the first articles of our Constitution. It is for these reasons that the maneuver underlying the Update Note does not call into question the parameters of the so-called fiscal compact and, playing on possible decimals of flexibility, moreover to be obtained from technocrats, is not enough to reverse the trend and is even dangerous for the bets and risks it causes to the public accounts, because it does not take into account the worrying signals that come from emerging economies and even from the Chinese giant. As we have been repeating for three years now, a radical change of course would be necessary, which would involve a loosening of at least one percentage point of GDP for a three-year period of the planned deficit, in order to finance the economic interventions necessary to get out of this vicious circle, and a new pact with taxpayers, which does not see small businesses forced to escape to survive, while large ones thrive between the direct and indirect facilities. Allow me to add one last remark: we know that a list of projects linked to the famous Juncker plan is being prepared, to be submitted to Brussels, including measures to build new roads and railways and to heal the hydrogeological disaster. I hope that we will not forget once again Calabria, whose ionic belt, on roads such as the SS 106 state road and its railroad, are in condition from the Third World, whose Pollino earthquakes have been waiting for three years for the money for reconstruction and whose workers in mobility by way of derogation are waiting for the monthly payments of April 2014. Gentlemen of the Government, don't forget the commitments you have made before you make more if you don't want to agree with those who call you Millers and liars. Calabria and the South are tired of the many - too many - promises never honored. [[Applause from Senators Casaletto and Gambaro. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Azzollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u22	Mr President, for the Government the footprint of the Economic and Financial Document and, better still, of your Update Note today when we examine it, is clear: the Government bets on growth and, to this end, marks the entire policy framework of public finance. This emerges, in particular for the Update Note, from an increase of 0.2 percentage points in the forecasts for the growth of gross domestic product at the end of the year, from 0.7% to 0.9%, and above all from the use of all the so-called flexibility granted by the European Union. They are all used, because already in the Update Note to the DEF are used both the so-called reform clause (for a further 0.1%, which is added to the 0.4% already granted to us by Europe with the DEF), and the flexibility clause for investment, which is added to the first. Finally, it is these days and these hours the attempt of the minister of the Padoan economy to exploit also the so-called clause of immigration, which would allow the use of a further margin of flexibility for Italy. It is precisely during these days and hours that Mr Padoan is discussing this clause in the European Union. Overall, the flexibility framework allowed by the European Union is close to 1% of gross domestic product and, together with the raising of the same GDP forecasts for 2015, there is a framework that provides flexibility margins of more than 1% of GDP, which the Government intends to use explicitly for growth. There's a bottom line here. The DEF Update Note incorporates as a trend, i.e. without the action of the Government, the effects of the so-called safeguard clauses. The Government intends to sterilize them - we use this word - precisely because it attaches to the safeguard clauses an effect of a so-called depressing nature, so it intends to eliminate them because also with this initiative it is consistent with the objective it aims to: it removes what is of a depressing nature in order to revive the growth and development of the country. The safeguard clauses amount to 16.8 billion. I would just like to make one point to the Government, which may not be right here - perhaps we will do so in the Budget Committee - but it is something on which I should like to pay attention for the future. The safeguard clauses, in my opinion, tend to be sterilized at lower costs; I cannot say with more revenue because the safeguard clauses are higher revenue, so - I repeat - they tend to be sterilized at lower costs. I tend to say that I understand the government's bet, but the constitutional principle that when you have more expenditure must be covered with more revenue or - therefore, in this case - with less expenditure cannot be totally evaded. Explicitly the Government for the lower expenses amounts to 10 billion spending review. For the truth, I also believe that the government will figure the reduction of interest on debt, which, because of the current economic and financial conditions, are particularly low, but those are merely forward-looking measures, while - I repeat - it is useful that the lower revenues are covered by lower expenses, so only 10 billion. What am I saying? That the 10 billion spending review must then be effective. Here the choice of government must be particularly careful in order to prevent these lower revenues from affecting companies, otherwise they would be contradictory to the flexibility clause for investments that we have requested. President, it is known that I cannot speak well in English, but tax expenditure - I think that is the way - must be chosen with particular attention because in tax expenditures, for example, there is the Sabatini law which instead is one of the laws that the Government correctly intends to strengthen (for the sake of truth, it has already been strengthened on other occasions). So, those 10 billion spending reviews have to be charged to the current expense. This is the challenge we face if we want the predictions of this Update Note to come true. If we, that is, call for more investment expenditure - and I agree - and if we believe that some laws in favour of companies should be maintained, or even increased, this can only mean that spending review must affect current expenditure. I, as a member of the Budget Committee, know that there are a number of small measures in the course of the year which, on the other hand, often affect current expenditure. Therefore, it is worth my previous request not to cover them with the safeguard clauses which, instead, at least in part, are revised with the use of greater deficits. Of course, I take it for granted that the government places 3% as stake (but we're quite in it). This is the challenge we have to face in some way. [[Recalls of the President]] I'm going to conclude. We must be careful because, in the meantime, extraordinary and eccentric events have happened this year in relation to the action of the Government, such as the question of reverse charge, the rejection of the Robin tax, the revaluation of pensions, which must be part of the planning framework of the Government and the law of stability. You play the growth bet if you affect, this time seriously, current spending. We cannot fail to do so, because we have used all the flexibility that we have in our relationship with the European Union. We have also used a margin that moves towards the high forecast of the increase in GDP. That's the point. We hope that things will be better, but that is the situation and we must be careful. Where we, on the other hand, did not put embankments again on the current expense we would hurt. It says who (and I am pleased to repeat it), in particular with Deputy Minister Morando, was the protagonist of the law - which was then called - financial of 2010, in which we put the current expense of the brakes that still work. It was discussed then. I quote, precisely, Deputy Minister Morando to say that, with respect to these remarks of mine, I acknowledge that, although with a little pride for the Government that was then, there was also a constructive and very serious contribution of the opposition of that time in the Budget Committee and this is a fundamental merit. That kind of relationship, at least in matters of public finance, must remain: a dialectical, constructive relationship, but aimed at improving financial conditions, because the rest depends on it. You will forgive me a remark, perhaps somewhat atypical, about these moments: we are always talking about reforms; let me add that I attach particular importance to various types of economic reforms. Mr President, on this point, the Government's proposal to maintain as much as possible - I understand, in view of what I said earlier - the benefits at work is essential. If I spoke before the enterprise component, understood as stock of capital and capital, of course I am also referring to the enterprise as a factor contest, the most important of which is that of workers. Maintaining the facilitation of open-ended contracts is crucial, at least in the widest possible way. This is the understanding and this is the bet that this Update Note puts at the DEF. In order for it to be won, we believe that it needs those conditions - and of course others that develop in the debate - absolutely necessary, otherwise the maneuver would be merely spending deficits - I add - current. This cannot, of course, be the Government's understanding and, more importantly, it must not be Parliament's understanding when we adopt both the resolution on the DEF and, of course, the subsequent request for the extension of the budgetary balance term, which is a natural, obvious and absolutely justified consequence of the system that I have endeavoured to illustrate and which underlies the entire Update Note. [[Applause from Senators Sangalli and Pagano. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u23	She's enlisted to speak Senator Mangili. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u24	Mr President, the Update Note to the 2015 DEF represents the first opportunity for discussion, both national and international, on the political and economic strategy that the Government intends to pursue through the composition of the public budget posts. However, already in the report to Parliament, rather than describing the essential aspects of budgetary policy, the results of the measures taken and the new objectives of the political economy, there is a much more positive and optimistic scenario than the real context. The government exploits the popular hope in the end of the crisis by distorting even the numbers and data, exaggerating the positive economic signals and selling them for structural, deliberately neglecting the international comparisons and imbalances that characterize the Italian economy, evoking an expansive policy that instead recalls only a European line of flexible austerity. In fact, despite the announcements and the apparent criticism of European economic policy, the report to Parliament admits continuity with previous governments. In fact, already in August there are new signs of slowing down the global economy, the outbreak of a new financial earthquake with epicenter South-East Asia, the braking of emerging countries and world trade, uncertainty about exchange rates for the decisions of the Fed and the Chinese Government, geopolitical tensions, especially in countries exporting raw materials. Although they are all recognised in the same Update Note, forecasts for 2016 and subsequent years continue to be unrealistic. It is clear that the Government confirms its decision to join European policy, which is all about competitiveness, which at international level accentuates the current geopolitical tensions. The real bet of the Government in fact would like to be the strong growth of the domestic demand. Since 2016, the change in consumption and above all in private investment is expected to make a significant contribution to GDP growth, as never before in the last eight years. Starting from the assumption that the correlation between growth and well-being is not necessarily positive, but there are frequent situations in which an increase in gross domestic product is found a decrease in the quality of life, we would like to reiterate on this occasion the utility of GDP as a sacred benchmark and the opportunity to use indices more aimed at expressing useful information on the different dynamics that affect the lives of citizens of a country and the country itself. GDP has shown its lack as an indicator of genuine human progress, as it is unable to discriminate between profitable and harmful activities and to take into account many environmental and social costs. Macroeconomic indicators, such as eco-sustainable well-being (BES), capable of measuring economic development should be adopted as soon as possible, taking into account also the fundamental social and environmental dimensions of well-being, accompanied by measures of inequality and sustainability. We have been talking about going beyond GDP for decades. We continue to produce obsessively and this irrepressible rush to consumption, which in our case involves an unconditional exploitation of resources as if they were inexhaustible, will not take us very far. GDP is unrealistic. It is the handmaid of consumerism, so this society continues to produce far beyond the real needs of the community. To stop this crazy endless race should be replaced by the false and misleading goal of unbridled growth that of "a-growth," in which GDP would only be an aspect of life, although important. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The "a-growth" would be nothing more than a forward-looking economic policy of maintaining a possibly widespread and balanced well-being. The obsession of unlimited growth, consumerism, technocracy, the absolute domination of finance and the exaltation of the market are perverse characteristics of the system. Even the so-called sustainable development, an expression that at first sight sounds good, is in fact profoundly contradictory and represents an extreme attempt to make development survive, that is, economic growth, making it believe that it depends on the well-being of the peoples. The talk of sustainable growth often becomes a diversion. It is a means of justification that absorbs the values of ecological discourse within the logic of finance and technocracy, and the social and environmental responsibility of companies is reduced, for the most part, to a series of marketing and image actions. The greatest environmental and social problems of our time are due precisely to growth and its side effects. Hence the urgency of a strategy of degrowth, focused on sobriety, on the sense of the limit, to try to respond to the serious emergencies of the present. It is necessary, for the more developed societies, to slow down somewhat, to set some reasonable limits and even to go back before it is too late. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, saying that we are concerned is little. We are very concerned because this extremism beyond any reasonable forecast of the possible growth of our country leads to an immediate consequence: the use of these margins before they have been realized through an extension of the public debt. Since public expenditure does not decrease, the forecasts of decreasing expenditure made by this Government in previous years have proved absolutely ineffective and have affected leading to greater recourse to debt, again this time, by the many things expressed in this Update Note, we can only assume that the next law of stability will reserve us a further recourse to the financial market and therefore a further increase of our public debt. But we are also concerned about some serious omissions in this Update Note. As I cannot summarize them in just a few minutes, I will concentrate on a number of subjects which are mentioned on time in the resolution that we presented to the Presidency and which we will then discuss in the explanation of vote. We have not yet seen the payment of commercial payments by the public administration (in fact, I would say that there is a worrying slowdown). We have allocated several tens of billions of euros in the past years with debt for this; the government itself, at the time of its establishment, said that within ninety days it would provide to exhaust the debt of the public administration to commercial enterprises. However, to date, more than 30 billion debts are still unpaid. Is this the fault of administrations and bureaucracy? Last time we talked about the real impossibility of reducing public expenditure in the Budget Committee, Deputy Minister Morando, with the great objectivity that distinguishes him, said: it is true; we wait for some strong guidelines to reduce this expenditure from the legislative decrees implementing the Public Administration Reform Act. But will that be true? And even when it is true that these legislative decrees will contribute to the reduction of expenditure, is this the structural reduction of expenditure? Do you rely on procedures or rely structurally on voices of reduction in public expenditure? That doesn't seem to happen to me. And then from the dreams that this Government makes, in particular its President, who arms us early in the morning when he wakes up, the Mezzogiorno has completely disappeared. I am surprised that the excellent rapporteur, who enjoys my full appreciation, in his speech on this Update Note has not identified this small innovation. We are no longer talking about the structural funds in the Mezzogiorno. I have a suspicion, a tragic suspicion: that in the next law of stability we return, as has been done in the previous one, to the use of structural funds deliberately - at this point I must say - not used to feed the enormous sum of expenditure that this Update Note provides for: reduction of taxes, sterilization of safeguard clauses and a whole series of issues that require resources. The Mezzogiorno has disappeared from this agenda, disappeared from the dreams of the President-in-Office of the Council and I believe that this is a deliberate disappearance. Already last time we saw a total of 4 and a half billion structural funds allocated to the regions of the Mezzogiorno to feed current expenditure, in which case specifically allocated it to the decontribution on new recruitments. I therefore wonder what remains to be hoped for in this Mezzogiorno completely abandoned at a time when, among other things, there is a series of challenges full of opportunities that open up on the Mediterranean; but on this subject, apart from a few individual lines, the Government has done nothing concretely. We are therefore very concerned about this too. We need a thorough restructuring of the Structural Funds' spending mechanisms, starting from the absolute failure of two ministers and two ministerial rounds in the use of cohesion funds. It is the central structure that cannot coordinate the regions; the regions certainly have their wrongs from this point of view, but if we do not carry out an overall revisiting of structures and - I would like to say this - also of people and procedures dedicated to this, we will always return money to Europe; it is, moreover, our money and not graciously bestowed by Europe that will take other paths, but at this point I think that this is a strategy intended to be able to use differently the national quota reserved for the co-financing of the use of structural funds. There is no talk of tourism. Ladies and gentlemen, put yourself in the head that that small large "stretching" that has been done on the basis of the data of recent months on consumption and gross domestic product is all due to a tourist increase that for the vast majority concerns the Regions of the Mezzogiorno and that for the vast majority does not depend certainly on virtuous national policies, but on an international context that has seen the diversion of many tourists from the destinations of North Africa and the Middle East on European destinations, of which we have taken only a part. I have not seen policies of tourism development in this country that could really intercept these dynamics in a structural and certainly broader way. These are some examples of what is missing from this Update Note. The final context - I repeat - is absolutely worrying. Public spending does not decrease, the government's commitment to citizens is made for several tens of billions; the result will be that the public debt will increase and that the fiscal pressure will not decrease but, as the trend tells us, will grow further and in an increasingly penal way for the country and its businesses. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u27	He is registered to speak Senator Guerrieri Paleotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u28	Mr President, the rapporteur, Senator Lai, has already extensively and effectively described the new context which, especially since the beginning of the year, has characterized our economy. GDP has resumed to grow at a rate close to 1% in the course of the year, ending the very long recession that has characterized our country since the great crisis. Of course, this is a very positive figure indicating an ongoing recovery, but, as we know, it is still too modest a recovery and, above all, suffering from fragility that comes from the uncertain evolution of the world economy. It has already been recalled that there is an ongoing slowdown in the emerging area, especially in China, which is causing a worrying slowdown in world trade and demand, with inevitable repercussions on our exports. The International Monetary Fund has confirmed this in recent days, adding the dangers of a new financial shock, which would be no smaller than the global one of 2008-2009. It is clear that after very long years of recession the country absolutely needs the recovery in progress to become a true path of stable and sustained growth. If the external context, as is likely, will not offer adequate opportunities for our export, we just have to try to stimulate internal demand to ensure the achievement of the planned trend, which is contained in the DEF Update Note. This means guiding fiscal policy for 2016 to an expansive tone, using to this end the maximum deficit that is allowed by Europe, but which is of course also allowed by the weight of our debt. In the current economic and social circumstances, this is a road - I would say - almost forced from an economic policy strategy point of view and I would say that all this responds to a precise economic policy strategy that aims to attack the high debt stock on our country's GDP by stimulating growth, while of course respecting the constraints that are placed by the maintenance of a contained public deficit. It is a strategy that we have already applied this year, with a comprehensively neutral fiscal policy. It worked, as we have seen, but for next year it is necessary to do more to stimulate, as I said, the ongoing recovery. In the Note to the DEF the numbers speak of a fiscal stimulus that can somehow be estimated at around 0.8%. Well, I believe that it is born here and from here the construction site of the next maneuver to be carried out with the law of stability. While maintaining the target of reducing the debt-to-GDP ratio, it is therefore proposed to slow down the profile of its decline and extend the fiscal deficit target for 2016 compared to what was expected in April. The reason - we know - is that European constraints on debt return can be fully interpreted using the European rules of greater flexibility. Of course this means the use of these margins in an even intense way (in the Update Note we talk about a total figure of 17.9 billion) relying on us for the remaining coverage to the savings expected from the spending review, of which I will say immediately later, and to a series of other measures on the revenue front. Of course it has been said and must be repeated that the corridor along which we move is very narrow, because it is delimited on the one hand by the necessity, for a country like ours, with a very high debt on GDP, to maintain a strict fiscal responsibility, but on the other by the need to offer a valid support for growth much more than has been done in recent years. Now the necessary conditions for this policy and fiscal expansion policies to somehow have the desired effects are that the enlargement of the deficit is used to finance measures and measures that are able to increase the growth potential of our economy in the long term. In other words, this is the need to move from the trend trend indicated in the DEF to the planned trend. It is important, therefore, and I believe that the Government has already announced, that for the stability law, in addition to the cuts on IMU first home and TASI, we can arrive at a first significant reduction of IRES, the corporation tax, anticipating next year part of what will be fully realized in 2017. It is a measure that will help healthy businesses, as we know, and it is especially appropriate to keep up with other countries in Europe. In fact, it is important that we set out a sequence in the reduction of taxes, because this sequence is the best strategy, as we know, to relaunch growth and reduce public debt, but it is also important for the message that we want to send to Brussels and Europe: a message that strongly indicates that Italy wants to use flexibility for reforms and investments and therefore to increase the potential for development and growth of our country. In fact, we must be aware that, from mid-October, it will certainly start a difficult negotiation with the European Commission. At the same time, however, it is a negotiation that we can successfully conclude by presenting ourselves with an effective strategy and intervention measures. Of course, cutting taxes at this stage is important, but it should be remembered to ourselves that, when we do, there is a basic question to ask ourselves: taxes are necessary, in addition to financing services to citizens, to maintain the order of public accounts, so not to incur further deficits. If they are cut, then, it will be necessary to find - as has been said and repeated - the appropriate cover also in order not to disturb the conditions of the sovereign debt market. Also because it should be said that flexibility clauses naturally require subsequent compensation, they are not permanent discounts. Therefore, what is granted for 2016 will have to be recovered in the following years. That is why, as mentioned in the DEF Update Note and as the Minister of Economy has pointed out several times, tax cuts must be covered by certain and stable expenditure cuts over time. It is an important issue, of course, because funding requires a medium to long horizon. It will therefore be important for this projection to be reiterated in the provisions of the Stability Act. In fact, we must remember that all attempts to cut taxes - such as that of the centre-right government, from 2001 to 2006 - have failed, precisely because there was no reduction in expenditure able to support these cuts. That is why - and I would like to conclude with this Note - we must remember that the increase in spending and an expansionary tax maneuver can help in the short term, but they certainly cannot increase the growth of our country's income permanently, even if it were possible to agree with the European Union. We know that stable growth requires policies that improve resource allocation, reward innovation and increase human capital. Now, on this road, some important first steps have been taken, but they must be strengthened and much more must be done. We must be clear: it is impossible to imagine any real growth trajectory if the investments in our country will not start again. They have grown too little for several years and have contributed to the erosion of the capital stock. This is therefore very important for the private sector, but it is also important for the public sector. In this respect, therefore, this is the importance of the flexibility we have gained on investment. In this respect, however, a progressive reduction in debt will free up valuable resources and thus provide an economic framework geared to structural fiscal rebalancing. In the next law of stability it will be very important to be able to move along these lines. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u29	The debate is closed. I communicate to the Assembly that the Presidency has received, on the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012, motions for resolutions nos. 100, signed by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller, and 101, signed by Senator De Petris and others. In addition, the Presidency received motions for resolutions Nos 3 and 4 on the Update Note to the 2015 Economic and Financial Document. 1, signed by Senator De Petris and others, 2 signed by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller, 3, signed by Senator Castaldi and others, 4 signed by Senator Comaroli and others, 5 signed by Senator Bonfrisco and others, 6 signed by Senator Romani Paolo and others, 7 signed by Senator De Pin. The lyrics are in distribution. I call the rapporteur. 11:09 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u30	Mr President, I will be very brief because I believe that it is above all the Government that has to respond with its speech to a debate that has certainly been very complex and that it was worth being represented in this House in some way. I would like to highlight only two issues, which perhaps have not been adequately represented in the report The first is what Mr D'Ali said. I think that there is a big bet on the Mezzogiorno and I am convinced that the Government has a strong interest in giving a signal that remains in public opinion, but also in real facts. This is true for two reasons, one economic and the other ethical. It is difficult for Italy, a car that has been rekindled and is starting again, to walk at the right speed if the Mezzogiorno does not go after it. And this is a "mechanical" economic aspect. Then there is an ethical aspect. I think that the next maneuver must have those elements of equity, even with respect to the country, that can recover some facts that in the previous maneuver of stability has been marked for the benefit of the whole country, perhaps paying it on the costs of the Mezzogiorno. The second element has been reported by President Azzollini and colleague Guerrieri Paleotti. I am referring to the fact that in this DEF Update Note there is a real bet that passes through the boundary between courage and risk. Can we not be brave? I think the country can't afford it, because it has to face some challenges with courage. I realize that under normal conditions, in the face of the risk of circumvention of Article 81 of the Constitution, referred to by President Azzollini (i.e. the fact of paying with debt the debt, rather than with less expense or the lowering of taxes on the house), there is the risk of not being perfectly orthodox, but perhaps this is the time when they need more risk and courage, trusting that the choices can fall on some selected and identified aspects, that they can be the right ones. It is a delicate bet, which must be made with attention to the necessary equity and aiming, if possible, at innovative rather than conservative things.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u31	I call the Vice-Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Dr Morando, to whom I would ask you to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions submitted to the report pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 2012 and to indicate which motion for a resolution on the Update Note you wish to accept.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u32	Mr President, in order not to forget, I shall immediately do what I have been asked about the wording of the resolutions. The resolution on the report to Parliament pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012, accepted by the Government is No 100, while the resolution on the DEF Update Note that the Government accepts is No 2. Both were presented by the Presidents of the majority groups. Having said that, I would like quickly to take up some of the issues raised in the many speeches I have listened to carefully, as was my duty. I would like to thank all those who have spoken, including those who have made a more critical contribution to the proposals contained in the Update Note. In particular, I would like to start with what Senator Molinari said in his speech, for which I thank him. Senator Molinari said that he hoped to finally find in this Update Note a turning point in the direction of economic and fiscal policy compared to the phase in which his fundamental inspiring principle was that of austerity. Instead, Senator Molinari said that his hope was disappointed. Now, whatever the opinion we have on the so-called austerity policy, what I would like to highlight is that in fact this Update Note contains precisely on this point - and it is the fundamental objective that this document intends to pursue - the indication of a turning point in the direction of economic and fiscal policy, a turning point which, in the opinion of the Government and I hope also of the majority, the conditions have been created. What's this about? In the previous phase, right or wrong that it was (I have a personal opinion on this point, but it does not note at the moment), we had a primary objective, the stabilization of public finance, and a secondary objective, that of pursuing this stabilisation and what is called fiscal consolidation in a context in which the consolidation choices were not too damaging to growth. From this point of view, the Update Note outlines another scenario. Then it can be discussed whether it does so in quantity and with the quality of the necessary or desirable choices, but there is no doubt that it outlines another scenario: the objective is growth, consolidation and support for growth, while the stabilization of public finance becomes a constraint, as was last perfectly recalled, in my opinion, in the intervention of Professor Guerrieri Paleotti. We have a change that stems from this different relationship between consolidation policies and policies for growth: the fundamental objective, which we are finally able to pursue as such, is the return of the country on a stable and lasting path of growth. Of course, we must do so, on the basis that we are a country that has an extremely indebted state, in a context of stability in public finance. It is clear that, from this point of view, we make a choice that can also be criticized - I realize - and for example was criticized by Senator Mangili. You see, Senator Mangili, our opinion is that, over the course of these long years that separate us from 2008, we have experienced a very heavy decline. We all know that there was a short period in which the product had actually returned to growth, but we can ignore this small phase in the medium and long-term trend. Unfortunately, we basically had a phase before stagnation and then a very serious fall between 2008 and 2013, for 9 product points and for a 10-point average loss of income per capita between 2008 and 2014. Now, it can be argued that the goal for the future is - as Senator Mangili said - the "a-growth," but it is certain that the decrease we have known has been very heavy and it is at least as sure - I am sure that we agree with Senator Mangili on this - that it has not been a happy decrease. It was an absolutely unhappy decrease. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] For this reason, we are pursuing - with consistency, I believe, at this point - the objective of returning to growth, yes to the growth of gross domestic product, knowing that gross domestic product is a measuring instrument that naturally does not measure human well-being. There are well-being indicators which must be taken into account and which can be taken into account in the objectives of economic policy and fiscal policy, but in the meantime we are content to pursue an objective of stable and lasting growth of gross domestic product, of course by trying to act on the quality side. For example, it seems to us that it is time to make a commitment; and the motion for a resolution tabled by the majority on this point, by accepting a proposal from the Update Note, is clear in indicating this commitment to the Government. We believe that conditions have been created so that in Italy, finally, we can set ourselves on the road of building a universal instrument to combat absolute poverty, which Italy does not have, being the only European country, together with Greece, that has not yet equipped itself with such an instrument. This is part of a strategy for the growth of gross domestic product as well, but it incorporates objectives of spreading well-being at least aimed at combating the conditions of absolute poverty, which are unfortunately those that characterize the lives of four million people in Italy. It is a literally chilling number, which has increased further in the course of the crisis. So, the Update Note on this point contains a significant turning point, compared to the phase we have experienced in our recent past. The objective is growth: the stabilisation of public finance is a constraint to be respected, but according to the most important objective of growth. Once we have said that there is a turning point in this direction, we must ask ourselves, therefore, what its quantitative dimensions are. I would ask you to be careful: as has been pointed out, in the course of the debate, by majority senators, they are quantitatively relevant. As can be seen from the public finance tables, after we had softened the previously planned restriction for 2016 in 2015 (we had already made this choice with the DEF for 2015), the Update Note introduces a further accentuation of this trend, so that the fiscal policy for 2016 becomes openly expansive. Compared to the primary structural balance, expected in autumn 2014, there is in fact a deviation of 0.9 percentage points of GDP - basically, therefore, a point of GDP - and, compared to last spring's Economic and Financial Document, we have a deterioration of the figure, that is, an expansive choice, of 0.7% of GDP. It is therefore not only a qualitative indication, but also a dimension of expansive policies, which is beginning to become significant. The question that I think is correct is whether this choice is justified, since the country is still back to growth. On this point, some caveats and some concerns were expressed during the debate. In fact, we wonder whether we are sure to give fiscal policy a more robustly expansive intonation, in a context in which the country has returned to growth and if therefore a procyclical policy is not being implemented, which is unnecessarily increasing debt and which therefore slows down the process of achieving structural balance, without giving growth a particularly important contribution, since growth already exists on its own. That is the issue that has been proposed. Our answer is that this choice is justified, not only on the level that we will improperly call "technical": we propose in fact to use fully the spaces for expansionary policies, recognized by European rules. I say this, incidentally: these spaces are recognized by the fiscal compact, but I do not want to go back to controversy, on this point, that we have done at other times. Therefore, we want to make full use of these clauses because those rules provide, on the one hand, for the so-called reform clause (we had already used it and obtained the consent to use it; we use it even more fully: 0.1% was missing in this regard); on the other hand, the investment clause, which we intend to use significantly. After that, it remains in the background, instead, the possibility to consider the effort that the country is making to face the phenomenon of immigration as something that is not yet agreed; it could further contribute to widen the spaces of fiscal policy, but on this point we maintain a solicitation addressed to the European bodies together with other countries, without yet determining punctually the use of this choice already in the Update Note, and consequently in the law of stability that will be approved, on the basis of the resolutions, adopted by the Council of Ministers next week. If these are the technical reasons, I would like to add quickly that there are fundamental reasons, however, which are, in some respects, even more relevant. Beyond the uncertainties on the global market caused by the sharp slowdown of the so-called emerging countries, which have supported the rise in world trade over the years - this is a first cause for concern - there are further concerns which, in my opinion, are even more relevant. 11:26 a.m. (Following Morando). Firstly, despite the ultra-expanding stance of the ECB's monetary policy, we continue to have an inflation rate very far from the target set by the ECB itself. The risk of deflation continues to be very serious and - I repeat - it is a bad beast to tame because governments have learned for a long time how to cope with situations of excessive inflation while they are not trained - they have no experience on average - to cope with situations of prolonged deflation. Therefore, on this point the risk is immanent, there is still, and fiscal and budgetary policy must accompany the efforts of monetary policy to prevent this risk. Secondly, in the potential product of Italy we have the continuing serious difficulties caused by the fact that we have experienced the longest and most uninterrupted phase of recession that, in our unitary history, the country knows. The effects of this recession are still in the economic reality of the country, in its potential product. We need fiscal policy to accompany the effort to overcome these difficulties. It is for this reason that it is absolutely essential to accompany an expansionary fiscal policy with structural reforms on the demand side. It is clear that the updating of the return plan, referred to in the report to Parliament requesting authorisation to deviate from the plan itself, is therefore the consequence of this approach. I come to a number of more substantive remarks, particularly those relating to expenditure trends and then to the conclusion, Mr President, of the tax burden. With regard to the development of expenditure, in particular primary expenditure, i.e. expenditure net of debt-serving expenditure, I have listened again - and I note this, but I cannot agree with it - to interventions which underline the failure of policies to contain public expenditure that have been implemented in the past. I would like to say this, in particular, to the opposition senators, like Senator D'Alì. I find it particularly curious that this element is highlighted by not looking at the data contained in the public finance framework to current legislation, present in the Update Note. In fact, in that trend of primary spending in the coming years there is a significant - I will say the numbers, because in this case it is good to be precise-reduction of the tendency to existing legislation (i.e. structural results), which is not mainly the result of the action of this Government, nor only of what immediately preceded it, but - shared or not shared that they were those choices - is largely the result of the action, on the expenditure side, of Governments which, for example, were supported by Senator D'Alì and which made incisive choices. [[Recalls of the President]] Gentlemen, I would like to remind you that in 2016 - and I end now - we have a drop in primary expenditure of 0.9% of the product and, as a result, still 1.2%, under current legislation, of the product in 2017, up to a total of 3.4 points of fall in primary expenditure, determined under current legislation (read it on page 33 of the Note). This is what needs to be added to the targets for reducing expenditure set out in the DEF and included in the Update Note. But to say that expenditure is out of control and that there have been no results, in structural terms on the reduction of expenditure means denying, Senator D'Ali, even the contribution that you (I say you intended as a political group, of course, beyond people) have made to achieve this result. I'm ending up with the tax burden. Once again I have heard the criticism that the total tax burden would increase, not on the basis of a reading of the policy framework, but on the basis of existing legislation. Now, it is true, the current legal framework has an increasing tax burden, because, of course, it incorporates two factors that the policy framework has already determined or is about to determine, with the choices that are indicated in the Update Note. That is, we intend to completely neutralize the safeguard clauses for 2016. Of course, the tax burden, under existing legislation, incorporates more than one point of the VAT increase product. It is clear that if you calculate the tax burden on existing legislation, you get this figure, but in the programmatic it disappears, because the safeguard clauses will be neutralized. Secondly, in the tax burden figure you do not find the reduction determined by the EUR 10 billion we spent on the so-called EUR 80 bonus. But this is only for accounting reasons, because that figure represents the reduction of the tax burden on income from employees up to 26,000 euros per year. Of course there is an accounting problem, so that that bonus is in the expense and it is not in the reduction of the income, but, if you calculate the tax pressure net of these two data, you see its descending profile. So let's discuss the real choices, not data that doesn't exist. In particular, the trend towards existing legislation on the tax burden is a fact that does not exist. It is better that the controversy, even the harshest, develops on real data and not on inventions. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u33	I declare that motion for a resolution No 101 has been withdrawn, signed by Senator De Petris and others. Since the Government has stated that it accepts motion for resolution No 2, signed by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller, the one-hour deadline for tabling any amendments referred to it will now begin.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u36	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with additional attention to the speech made by the rapporteur, whom I appreciated, by the Vice-Minister and those of my colleagues who have spoken, and to the additional attention given to the need to explore more thoroughly the economic dynamics which, especially in recent times, represent a little the polar star of interest, not only of the Government, but also of Parliament, of the political forces and of the whole country for the well-known reasons. Well, I have to say that, no matter how passionate and competent the debate and the comments put forward, the doubts and doubts, the considerations that have also come from the Government in an attempt to satisfy the question points and the shadow cones that are increasing more and more menacing on the state of health of our country, have not convinced me completely. I start from some considerations regarding the Update Note of the Economy and Finance Document. World growth appears weaker than last spring's expectations. While the advanced countries have confirmed themselves on a positive path, the difficulties of emerging economies have been accentuated as a result of China's slowdown. International trade stopped in the first half of the year, undermining the estimates of expansion contained in the April Economic and Financial Document. This was said by Professor Pisaura, in his capacity as President of the Parliamentary Budget Office, during a recent hearing on the Economic and Financial Document. As if to say: the government has been indulgent with itself, formulating estimates rather than rosy on the state of health of the patient but the care put in place does not seem to have had the desired effects until now, if anything they have limited themselves to keeping him alive, even if in a state of prognosis reserved by the European Commission. It is also said that the Note highlights an improvement in the estimates of GDP growth for the current year compared to the forecasts made by the April 2015 Economic and Financial Document in relation to the economic developments of the first part of the year. This confirms the recovery phase of the current economy. Here, I would personally consider with great caution, also because we must not be content with the 'pagelline' that come from the International Monetary Fund and I call them "pagelline' not to diminish its content but because I am a little disappointed that so late the Monetary Fund has remembered that in Italy there are 200 billion deteriorated credits, an aspect that significantly affects the economic condition of the country, however representing an overall condition of very serious difficulty in which both companies and Italian families find themselves. The Note confirms for 2016 the trend trend of GDP already foreseen in the April Economic and Finance Document at 1.3%, but there is a ...but...: According to the Note, the expansionary measures other than the decommissioning of the safeguard clauses, to which I will refer in a moment, would provide a contribution of 0.2 percentage points to the GDP growth of 2016. The estimate assumes that most of the tax benefits are immediately spent on the purchase of goods and consumption (and this, of course, does not make us optimistic, given the absolute ineffectiveness of the effects determined by the bonus of 80 euros). In the Update Note to the DEF, the Government also postpones the achievement of the medium-term objective by one year compared to last April's stability programme. The balance of the budget, in other words, is planned for 2018, instead of 2017. Basically, the Government has decided to ask for more time, more space, more flexibility in achieving the goal that for 2016 would amount to 0.8 percentage points. Indeed, the structural balance would decrease by 0.4 percentage points in 2016 compared to 2015. Question: What if these demands that the Government intends to make in Europe are not met? Moreover, I read (it is yesterday's news) of the statements - as usual - always very harsh and rough by the German Finance Minister, who said that there is no room for amending the agreements already entered into. I would therefore like to understand what would happen if Europe were not to accept these requests, on whose validity, sustainability and value I express doubts, given that it would be a matter of loosening constraints in order to cancel or sterilize the safeguard clauses using criteria and conditions that are absolutely weak (in part, however, some of them would have already been used). An alignment of the constraints between 2016 and 2019 is achieved through this system (i.e. basically, we create fictitious resources, but we create more real debt). On the other hand, according to the intentions of the Government contained in the Note, from the macroeconomic point of view, the measures of greatest impact of the planned maneuver are indicated precisely in the sterilization of the safeguard clauses (which were foreseen, as we said, by the previous Governments). We would not want the difficulties resulting from the inapplication of this sterilization or of this freezing, as it is called, of the clauses should result in a further increase of the tax burden for the Italian citizens, perhaps through some new jump or RAI canon placed in a clumsy and risky way in the electric bill of the Italians. These observations, these doubts are highlighted, of course with absolutely institutional prose, by the Parliamentary Budget Office, the Court of Auditors, the Office for Studies of the Senate, by Palazzo Koch and, in virtually total terms, the assessments are very cautious, if not negative. I note, for example, that the Parliamentary Bureau for the Budget - Minister, I see your concern - writes that to date it is not possible to assess the document in full, so the judgment is suspended. There are concerns about the source of resources from an announced spending review. Even in the Health Commission, the majority of colleagues who prepared that opinion had to refer to the need for greater clarity, greater information in relation to the new profiles of the spending review. Once again, the risk of cuts in welfare expenditure being made when we consider the lack of clear elements in terms of guaranteeing the funding of the National Health Fund which should not go below 116 billion, naturally leads us to have attitudes of great concern and perplexity. Having approved as a group a motion for a resolution, tabled a few minutes ago, we hope that the Government will pay attention to it with regard to the request for the reduction of one percentage point of the tax burden. It would be a sign of attention to the disastrous condition in which the country is located and in particular that part of our country, the Mezzogiorno of Italy, which does not even find a reference in terms of a projection of the Government regarding policies of support. As I conclude, Mr President, in an attempt to make an honest, correct and responsible contribution on two sides, we had tabled amendments on the introduction of the tax ceiling in the Constitution and on the principle of infrastructure equalisation. There is no reference to the Mezzogiorno, nor a reference to the policies of relaunching a part of the country that looks forward to knowing what is the famous master plan that the Renzi Government would have prepared to remove this area of the country from the condition of serious difficulty. I am not saying this with a vindictive spirit, but with the spirit of a Mezzogiorno which must rise again, but which obviously also needs to receive renewed attention from a more complete, more rational and more consistent government policy with the times. For these reasons, Mr President, I declare the Group of Conservatives and Reformists' vote against. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u39	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I have listened carefully to the debate in this House, but two issues have not emerged, which I believe are of fundamental importance. The first is that we are approving a document today, but we still do not know if it will have the authorisation of the European Union, so we are talking today about a text that we do not yet know if it will remain so. 11:48 a.m. (Follow COMAROLI). I would remind the House that on this point we must approve Decree-Law No 153 of 2015, which the Government had to launch urgently (by 30 September) precisely to avoid the problem related to voluntary disclosure, which the European Union has not approved; so let us think about what would happen to this measure if the European Union did not recognise the possibility of overtaking, of postponing the budget balance and so on. The other issue concerns safeguard clauses. Here, too, we point out that this problem is simply postponed by one year; that is, the safeguard clauses have not been removed, but simply postponed, so much so that my friend Senator Zanoni has also put a great deal of emphasis on the need to give certainty to the citizens. The simple shift of one year of these safeguard clauses means that VAT will be set at 22% at present to 25.5%. We can imagine what would happen to companies that would see this VAT applied, we simply think about tax evasion, which would have an exponential trend. The simple postponement is not the same as giving security and certainty to citizens. Again, we do not know how they are postponed, because we are talking about spending review, but we do not know how it will be done. True, there will be the stability law that will specify the scope, but we must approve today the DEF update document, not to mention that we have seen how Dr. Cottarelli's spending review went, that he had come to the Budget Committee to say that we would start with 10 billion spending cuts, of which five certainly in the current year, but we arrived at the end of 2014 and that review of the expenditure proposed by Cottarelli has not been known anymore. There are some data in this document that seem to be improving, but here too the Parliamentary Budget Office warns that it is careful and not too optimistic, because GDP has a slight increase, Christine Lagarde herself states that the world economy is slowing down, that growth will be modest. As far as the issue of the 80 euro bonus is concerned, it seems to me that Renzi himself has stated that the effects have been far below expectations; as far as jobs act is concerned, as can be read also on page 25 of the document of the Budget Service, it is late to show the effect of this measure, because the much praised increase in recruitment consisted, more than anything else, in the transformation of precarious contracts into permanent contracts, because thus the companies could obtain decontribution. Even this decontribution, however, there was only in 2015, already in 2016 there will be no and therefore the increase in employment will not be there. Another topic we are talking about is the taxation of the house. In 2008 the Lega-Berlusconi Government had eliminated the tax on the first house, because it rightly believed it; in 2012 it was restored, because it was said that it could not be avoided; in 2013 it was removed, in 2014 it was restored and now it is removed again. For God's sake, it is a very fair measure and a good one for the citizens, but we must give citizens security and above all we cannot remove the tax on citizens and then leave the municipalities in difficulty, as it could happen. We have heard that house taxes, agricultural IMU and safeguard clauses are being removed, but I would like to remind you here who introduced these taxes: it was this majority that put the IMU, the TARI and the TASI on the first house. Now this majority cannot fill its mouth and say: We're gonna take them off. This majority has put the safeguard clauses, now it cannot say: We save the Italians 21 billion taxes, you put them! The same with the agricultural IMU: despite the battle we fought last year to say that it was a wrong tax; it was put, however, after a year it is said: No, maybe it's better to take it off. It is also true, Mr Vice-Minister, that the figures show that public expenditure has fallen, but let us see how: cuts have been made to the regions, the provinces and the municipalities. It is therefore obvious to say that expenditure has fallen and it is easy to say: Did you see how good I was? I've reduced my spending! Too bad, though, that this was done with the money of others, because if we go to see the percentages of the cuts made, we see that those concerning the central ministries are very slight. Mr Lucherini, it is true, you mentioned that, for once, we see an improvement in the data. But, you see, when you hit the bottom, at a certain point, you can't go any further than that, so you have to start the climb slightly again. This, however, thanks to the many citizens and entrepreneurs who resisted and continued, because we believed in their work, which was fundamental. That is why I hope that the government will have serious attention to entrepreneurs and the reduction of taxes, or to the cost of labour, in a true way, or to companies, two fundamental and essential things for our future. I would like to make one last comment, Madam President, on the public debt: we will not vote on the motion for a resolution by the majority which approves this document, for the reasons I have just said, nor on the other, which allows this Government to extend the budget balance. We think that we cannot put the burden of such a huge public debt on future generations; we really need to think seriously about the future of the next generation. [[Applause from Senators Tosato and Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u42	SCAVONE (AL-A). Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government and ladies and gentlemen, already in the DEF that we approved in April, the Government presented itself with an optimistic view of a favourable development of the macroeconomic framework which was associated with the reduction of oil costs, the devaluation of the euro, in fact, and the possibility of achieving greater flexibility in budgetary constraints. With the same optimism, the Government is presenting itself today with this Note, in which we are talking about an upward revision of estimates. But what optimism can we have, when we talk about a few decimal places, when countries very close to us, such as Malta, for 2016 have forecasts that exceed 7%? The data in our possession, unfortunately, do not allow us to confirm this optimism, indeed, I believe that at this moment in the country continues a serious condition, which arouses great concern. Simply compare the Svimez data of 2015 with those of the Fondazione Curella, in which, yes, we read of a country in small recovery, which however affects only one half of it. The Mezzogiorno in fact remains in a disastrous condition of the labour market, with an increasing risk of poverty and an economy in the comatose state and in fact the only real growth that is recorded is that of the gap between the situation of the North and that of the South of this country. It is enough to see the figures of Sicily, where we have a risk of poverty of 42%, the economy is really at disaster and in the muddle and the enlarged unemployment has grown still to 23 percent, reaching peaks of 44. It is a Mezzogiorno that brings us back to the dramatic figures of the 1950s and that we are now living with a growing gap - as I have already said - and with an almost irreversible prospect of recovery. The pick-up train leaves all over Europe and internationally. But there are many observers who say that the conditions of the Mezzogiorno of our country risk not allowing this fundamental part of the country to get on that train. Per capita GDP is almost 50% less than in the North of the country. The cuts in capital expenditure have - as we know - a depressive effect which, together with that on current expenditures, contributes further to penalising this economy at the collapse and which now makes this people of the Mezzogiorno of the Italians in half: half for their GDP and infrastructure endowments. I would like to remind this House of a fact which has taken place in recent months, with regard to which there is a dramatic inertia of the Government. The three major cities of Sicily cannot communicate for an archaic rail system and because of the interruption in the two highways: I refer to the famous viaduct Himera, to which in three months a piece had to be put. And instead, we are still looking at what happened a few days ago on the Catania-Messina motorway. According to the most recent estimates of the Bank of Italy, in the last ten years the redistributive flows towards the South have been about 60 billion, equal to almost 4% of GDP. Today we reach 40 billion and we are below 3% of GDP. What can we expect from an area like the Mezzogiorno, where consumption has collapsed and is tending to decline more every day? In this area, the spending stock exchange falls more and more every day and this has occurred month by month in the last twenty-four months; fixed investments have fallen more than in the rest of the country; added value has been reduced more strongly and in all productive sectors; the fall in employment has been greater compared to the total number of jobs that have been lost in the crisis. What does the government do? It is written in the Note. Among the actions of Government for 2016 there is talk of revitalising the economy. I invite you to read the line - in my opinion indecent - in which you read: "Revitalization of the economy, even southern". The use of the term "also" makes us understand that the problem of the Mezzogiorno is not yet on the agenda of the Government and that it is complex to address the fundamental problem of the development of our Country. But who still has to shout that the only real and great reform that we all expect and that can make the country develop is a development project that departs from the Mezzogiorno? Measures are needed to support households and businesses (I think of TASI) and reduce IMU for households and businesses (I think of bolted machinery, as well as agricultural IMU). In the DEF approved in April last year, we had called for a motion to prevail over the agricultural IMU and now there is a return back. But can that be enough? How many harmful effects have been caused in this productive sector still driving, and not only in the Mezzogiorno? On the question of immigration, we read that the government will get a 0.2 per cent margin of manoeuvre for this national emergency, which, if I may, is first of all the Mezzogiorno, to which families have been confronted from the outset, with bare hands. One must not think of continuing to spend about 4 billion for a form of hospitality that gave us the indecency of the management of the CARA, starting from that of Mineo. We still see no good idea why there is a real form of reception and integration of those desperate people who cross our country hoping for a better life. We have tabled a motion, which we still expect to be offered to the action of this House, in which we are talking about a model of family welcome and widespread. In the coming days, we will be presenting a bill that would enable us, Mr Deputy Minister, not only to save what we are investing in this sector today, but also to redistribute - for example - a small resource to families that today go on with an income below EUR 25,000. What about health care? Just read the staff that concerns you, which I could quote by heart. We are talking about a review of expenditure and, by the way, in the note that officials are offering us it is said that it would be desirable for there to be certain numbers, which are not yet coming. It's really almost indecent. The Health Commission has taken on this role, thanks to the extraordinary work being carried out by my colleagues D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Dirindin in the context of the survey on the sustainability of the health service. We still expect a new hypothesis of health governance, knowing that the health demand of this country is answered through an investment on territorial medicine, that there is not, on prevention, that is cut, and on a correct management of resources, starting from performance and certainly not criminalizing the medical class. For all these reasons, which I have outlined in some respects, the Liberal Popular-Autonomy Group will only be able to vote against this Update Note to the DEF. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u43	Since I have received reports not only today, but for several days, which are very cold in this House, I want to say again loudly to those who have the responsibility to regulate the temperature in this House to provide. We all agree, or almost, to the overcoming and reform of the Senate, but we do not agree to be physically ill and eliminated. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u46	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we welcome the data contained in the update note to the DEF, which show that there are clear signs of recovery in our economy, which lead to an upward revision of growth estimates compared to the projections contained in the same DEF in April 2015. It is an improvement achieved thanks to the economic and fiscal policies followed by the Government, aimed at growth, but at the same time attentive to budgetary discipline and the achievement of the objectives of reducing the debt ratio between the public and GDP. These policies have the merit of having triggered a virtuous circuit of trust, involving both companies and households, with positive consequences for employment, investment promotion, exports and even domestic demand, even if not to the extent desired. However, the risks to which we are exposed at macroeconomic level are many and different; the Deputy Minister mentioned them first. One in particular, which is also linked to specific demands that we make and which the Government will make, is precisely about immigration, for which we believe it is necessary to continue to insist in Europe, so that specific common measures are soon taken to prevent and combat the phenomenon of irregular immigration and to adopt rules on regular immigration and integration, also revising the Dublin Convention. And at Scheuble we will perhaps respond with the positions of Chancellor Merkel, who we know has a more far-sighted view of this problem, which concerns not only Italy or Greece, but the whole continent and the relationship between North and South of the world. And, therefore, this is an issue that can only be addressed in Europe and not only within individual states, beyond the fact that this was planned or not, a long time ago. Therefore, we believe that an update is essential if we believe and want a true Europe. As explained by the rapporteur and the representative of the Government, the Note updates the macroeconomic and public finance forecasts, as well as the policy objectives, compared to those contained in the DEF last April, providing, moreover, an updated picture of the measures already undertaken, which is right to mention here: I am thinking of the reduction of the tax wedge; the measures aimed at rationalising public expenditure, despite all the difficulties and resistances that are obvious; the reform of the labour market, whose latest data I think are illuminating on the goodness of some choices, even difficult, made by Parliament, and the reform of public administration and school. An update has been made of their state of implementation and of the choices that will already be adopted by the next Stability Act, such as, for example, the cancellation of increases in VAT and excise duty rates - an unpredicted measure - which was necessary to include in the previous Stability Act, for obvious reasons, considering the existing constraints, in a cyclical and macroeconomic framework far different from the current one, or the elimination of taxes on the first house, which can be questionable in terms of progressiveness and considering the duty of each one to contribute to the essential services. The latter is, however, a choice that must be considered in the overall planning of the various interventions for the reduction of the tax burden, which we can read in a cycle that goes from 2014 to 2018. Within this framework, it is also necessary that, in order to relaunch a sector in difficulty, such as the real estate sector, a choice is made that - I repeat - taken individually, can generate some evaluation of not full sharing. Although the international context is less favourable than last April - I am referring to the difficulties of the so-called emerging countries - we still have a forecast of real GDP growth, which rises from 0.7% to 0.9% and stands at 1.3% for the entire forecast period. And also the GDP growth rate, in the policy scenario, is revised upwards compared to April, with an increase of 0.2 percentage points, reaching 1.6% in 2017. Moreover, the public finance framework, in the trend scenario, presents almost entirely improvements attributable to a substantial increase in the primary surplus. I want to stress this, because in terms of primary surplus we are second only to Germany. Moreover, the Government's intention, which emerges from the policy framework, is to pursue an expansive fiscal policy, which - for the reasons well illustrated by Deputy Minister Morando - is in some ways a challenge, which I believe is in everyone's interest to win. We hope, therefore, that an expansionary monetary policy of the European Central Bank can continue, that it will continue a favourable exchange rate between the euro and the dollar and a low oil price. These are all essential elements in order to consolidate a process of rebalancing public finances and represent an opportunity that must be exploited. It is therefore desirable - apart from the relations between the majority and the opposition - that this should be done. In addition, we believe that the Government's proposal to postpone the achievement of the structural balance of the budget to 2018 is acceptable, albeit within the framework of a progressive approach to the medium-term policy objective, taking advantage of all the flexibility margins provided for by the European system, linked to the implementation of structural reforms - which we are doing - and to the application of the investment clause, hoping that the so-called immigration clause, to which I referred in the initial part of my speech, may also be recognised. We share the need to address at European level the issues which the majority resolution places as priorities, such as, for example, those aimed at achieving new areas of budgetary policy in order to support, precisely, growth, the preservation and exploitation of the environment, the overall improvement of the quality of life of citizens, but above all of the competitiveness of the production system, and the promotion of productive investments, including at local level. I would like to emphasise that we agree with the commitments contained in the majority resolution, particularly those aimed at using all the flexibility clauses made available by the Stability and Growth Pact, to relaunch aggregate demand and competitiveness, including - as requested, moreover, explicitly, the Commission - a progressive overcoming of the Internal Stability Pact, and reviewing Law No 243 of 2012, in order to allow the most virtuous regions and municipalities to make investments in favour of the community and for growth. And that too is consistent with the government's overall strategy. In the light of all these elements that I have highlighted, I therefore announce the support of the Group for Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE to majority resolution 100. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u49	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, the Update Note to the DEF - as Vice-Minister Morando said earlier - serves, in addition to the fulfilments provided for by the procedures for defining the new financial and budgetary maneuver, also to give an account of the development of our economy, the positive data and the critical issues still present. The work we have done has not been to conceal some positive results, which - we are not afraid to say - are the result of some policies put in place at both national and European level, on the fiscal and monetary fronts. Some forecasts, however, do not leave us calm, such as - for example - on the international front: forecasts that have been confirmed to us by authoritative representatives of institutions, which we heard during the hearing during the examination of the Update Note to the DEF, who have invited us to pay attention to a possible new contraction of world trade and to the fact that some economies of emerging countries, which had a rate of development of a certain type, will have it lower - it is of the last hours - to which we must add an international political instability that certainly does not facilitate trade; it leaves it open, indeed it can lead to particular crisis situations. I see clouds thickening on the matter of migration, do not clear up; I see no more sun, I see more darkness. So there are positive elements - as we have said - but also great concerns. And then there is a huge burden that we cannot get rid of, that concerns not this Government and not even the previous one, but the history of this country; that story that - according to those who govern today - would like to be changed to positive. And we always try to launch useful work hypotheses as well. I am talking about the case of the Mezzogiorno, which cannot, once again, be dealt with only and exclusively with measures relating to taxation or incentives for the enterprise, because there is a need for real investments to support the productive capacity of that part of the country; real investments to organize the Mezzogiorno in terms of infrastructure, exactly as the rest of Italy and Europe must be organised, because the Mezzogiorno is lagging behind guilty. Of course, there are also responsibilities of local government, of the ruling political class of the Regions of the Mezzogiorno, but there are very serious responsibilities in the fundamental political choices that have been adopted by the Unity of Italy to date, including the most significant period of the development and expansion of the Italian economy. I know the story of the state participations in Sardinia; it certainly created employment in the short term, but then it created a lot of other problems in the long term, also of environmental nature: it has compromised territories, it has done social butchery, it has determined processes of destructuring of the productive system. The State was not able to intervene on that situation so created to ensure alternative activities to those it had urged, encouraged and even implanted in those territories, which were all almost oriented to support the manufacturing industry of the North, the development of the most developed and economically richer regions of Italy. Then we, in our resolution, once again want to launch a working hypothesis, which can be gathered in the next maneuver. We believe that we need an extraordinary plan for employment and development, a plan for economic and social rebirth in the Mezzogiorno and the Islands, which cannot be limited to some years, but must be a long-term programme. I am in love with the planned economy: the ten-year programmes are those that begin and end leaving - if managed well, with transparency and honesty - significant traces on the economic and social fabric of the territories that are interested in them. We believe that this plan should be a set of regional and local employment initiatives that mainly use well, also and especially in combination with private capital, structural funds, cohesion and development funds, funds from the budget of the State, the Regions and local self-governments, but accessing the funding lines are prefigured in these months, such as the Juncker plan, which specifically intervenes to reduce the disadvantages and the greater risks of an industrial, economic and productive investment. We think it is necessary to refer to the innovation of technologies and techniques for reclamation, restoration and environmental protection. Let's think about the realization of eco-sustainable production plants and the research that must be done on this front, which is absolutely new and certainly economically important. There is no corner of this world, in fact, that does not need to be reclaimed and defended by aggression and saving the planet means saving the man who inhabits it, all living beings and also the prospects of the economies of development of world society. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] It is a front on which we can also work through research and the employment of universities, in a direct connection with economic and productive activity. That is what we think we should call for, and that is the content of our resolution. We will not vote on the resolution on overcoming budgetary constraints, because it contains the premises and the results that we do not agree with, even if we wanted to vote on it, in the sense that we would have liked to vote on the government's permission to proceed without those constraints, because we believe that its action on this front, in the next financial manoeuvre, needs this authorisation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u52	Mr Gualdani (AP-NCD-UDC) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Area Group will vote in favour of majority resolutions. He will vote in favour because he shares the choices of economic policy that are the basis of the documents and that clearly mark the shift from a policy of rigour aimed at reducing debt and deficit to a policy oriented to supporting economic growth through which to attack debt. All this is done through the further use of the flexibility margins foreseen both for structural reforms and for investments, even if this will result in a more gradual recovery path, shifting the achievement of the fiscal balance to 2018 and worsening the programmatic trend of the balances, and in particular the net debt. And, in that regard, I have a little impact on the constitutional reform that we will be discussing again this afternoon. While fully sharing the direction of the manoeuvre contained in the DEF, it is clear that the public finance framework always appears to be the most fragile element of our system. That is precisely why we are proposing to include in the new institutional framework that we are drawing up a Commission for the control of public finance chaired by the opposition, which is precisely to keep a watchful eye on this matter at all times. Returning to the Update Note - as I said - we share its orientation, but we pay great attention to how the margins allowed by the flexibility clauses will be used, because on this will depend on the effectiveness and success of the maneuver. We are absolutely in favour of the decommissioning of safeguard clauses which will prevent tax increases. In the same way, we will favour every hypothesis of reduction of the tax burden, starting from the elimination of the taxation on the house, being aware that private property is an asset to protect for all indistinguishable, and cannot nor must be subject to indiscriminate tax levy for mere cash needs. Only in this way will a new pact of loyalty between the State and the citizen in the field of taxation be put into practice; a pact of mutual trust that we are trying to outline, starting with the implementation of the fiscal delegation that I hope will, on a regular basis, simplify the relationship between taxpayers and tax. In this regard, however, we also call for attention and economic support for those living in those homes, with particular reference to families, for whom we propose specific tax measures such as those in favour of birth, measures for reconciling living and working time, measures that allow the deduction of expenses incurred in the first year of the child's life and also measures to combat poverty in favour of families with low incomes. The family for us is one of the pillars of the growth of our country, as well as a great social shock absorber, and we are convinced that on it must focus attention and resources in the next law of stability. On the taxation side, we are also convinced that there is also a need for action on the productive factors of companies, with a strong focus on the abolition of the IMU on so-called bolted machinery, but also on the elimination of the agricultural IMU. For companies it is also necessary to increase productivity by encouraging decentralised bargaining and detaxation of productivity wages, and then to proceed in 2017 to the reduction of the taxation of corporate profits. As for the South, our country goes at two different speeds and, therefore, in the bill of stability the Government will have to make the effort to foresee for it specific measures, or to accentuate the measures envisaged for the rest of the country, so that our South can unfold its immense potential. In general, however, it is necessary to proceed decisively and with a multiannual approach, because a key element for recovery is the confidence that is also strengthened through the certainty of the rules. The continuous swing of the withdrawal on the house is an example of what we no longer want to happen. Finally, I would like to take a look at the coverage of the maneuver which, in addition to the flexibility clauses, will definitely have to focus on spending savings; savings which can no longer be derived only from linear cuts, but which must focus on a reduction in the scope of public intervention, through - for example - a decisive process of rationalization of the companies that are part of the public administrations, which until now have been stated but never begun. From this point of view, much will be done with the implementing decrees of the Madia reform, which will allow to streamline the plethora public apparatus. Fortunately, there will be a rationalization of the central and peripheral administrative apparatus, the elimination of useless bodies, the simplification of the managerial framework of the country. The restyling of the state will allow to regime savings of expenditure that will have to be renegotiated in order to give a thrust to the economic recovery of the Country. And we are going in this direction, we are intensifying our work and we cannot stop at all at this moment. The encouraging macroeconomic data must give us even more reason to continue on the reform path that the Commission and Parliament have undertaken with the right force and tenacity to overcome, once and for all, the resistance actions in our country. The People's Area Group (NCD-UDC) will therefore vote in favour of the majority resolutions and work to ensure that the Stability Act allows the path to growth and development outlined by the DEF to be taken decisively by fully agreeing with the economic policy strategy set out in the DEF Update Note.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u53	I would remind the House that at 12.35 a.m. the deadline for tabling amendments to motion for a resolution No 2, accepted by the Government, expires.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u56	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Mr President, we are - I do not know how to define ourselves - probably victims, together with all the Italians, of this rampant optimism. Our Premier participates only in television shows or goes where there are festive audiences with flags that acclaim him, because everything is fine. It's okay. The economy finally has the numbers that matter, and they're the ones that tell us we're better. Come on, the turning point has come! I would, however, like some tweets to be devoted - I know - to the nine billion unpaid Equitalia folders we have reached. Attention though: not the folders of the evaders, but of people who asked for the installment of their payment and who then failed to pay. This means - in my opinion - getting to despair: you go to Equitalia, you queue, you ask for the installment but, after two or three times, you can no longer pay the installments. Then a nice tweet by Premier Renzi maybe even on this would be opportune, because we would talk about real life. However, everything that is announced and proclaimed crashes with a couple of DEF pages. It is true that there are many numbers to read, many tables and various things, but there are also numbers that jump more to the eye. Let's see - for example - that the final revenues, taxes, will go from 777 billion to 884: 107 billion more from 2014 to 2019. It's not peanuts! Mr Padoan then maintains, always and in any case, that we will respect the commitments that Europe assigns to us. And then we see that the debt-to-GDP ratio is finally going to flex, to decrease. This is a promise that we find ourselves at every DEF and at every Update Note to the DEF, but it always starts from the following years, while in the current years there is always a little increase. This debt will eventually rise from 2,134 billion to 2,214 billion. It is interesting, however, to note that the decline in the ratio of public debt to GDP will first of all not be subject to central government, because their debt will still increase, but that of local government will decrease. Local authorities will be affected, and therefore regions and municipalities, and therefore directly the citizens, because everything that makes politics work and the central administrations will not be touched at all. The improvement we should see in the debt-to-GDP ratio will be due to or through the increase in GDP. Finally, the denominator will increase, but why? This year we have had a 0.9% increase, due entirely to exogenous causes, while we see a country like Spain even reaching 3.5% of growth. Those who have lost a lot gain so much from the factors that give the wind in the stern, while Italy always lags behind others, chasing with the trouble. We see that France is at 1.2%, Germany at 1.5% and we at 0.9% proclaim the great turning point. This is appalling, because not recognizing the fact that we have not grasped the enormous factors that we have had means not recognizing the enormous mistakes that have once again been made and, therefore, not really wanting to make the right turn. Then there is the future. In my opinion, the future lies in a small table that says that, since we were leaving the infringement procedure, we should have achieved a structural adjustment of 0.8% in 2013, but we are only doing it for 0.5%. So, the next year we carry 0.8% of 2014 to which we add 0.3% of the year before, and so, we get to 1.1%; then we get to 2015 and we get to 0.8% and 0.3% and we get to 1.6%, to which we add 1.1 percent. Therefore, we still transfer to our future what this Government and the majority that supports it (including, apparently, SEL) are unable to resolve. I heard Senator Azzollini talking about cuts of 10 billion, but I wonder what cuts he's referring to, because it's just 4-5 billion taxes. In front of Coldiretti's flags that waved at the Expo it would have been interesting that Renzi had said not only that he will cut a billion taxes to the agricultural category, but that from the same section he will probably go to get that billion. How? With the tax expenditures, those tax breaks for the very small producers, or those on diesel, which have already been cut in the course of the year; from there they will go to take a billion. Similarly, the cuts that are made to health care are taken directly by those citizens who probably have received the 80 euros that have been eaten in agricultural IMU or in an even more expensive TASI. Actually, cuts don't want to be made. As for the participants, Letta had renewed a law of Prodi and by the end of this year there could have been a really nice scissors. And, instead, with the Madia bill once again we have renewed them. Then we hear the Premier say that you will make a related bill, as if it were a guarantee of efficiency. It is said that, with the bill linked to the law of stability, the participants will be cut, but it is not true: we have a related agriculture sleeping and sleeping for over a year. It is not true that they will cut them, because the political basin is all there. So where do we send these boards if we send them home? The reality is, you can't send them home yet. The becero populism that our Prime Minister Renzi has always done has resulted in cuts in health care, in cuts in the Forest Guard Corps, in the humiliation of the public school in favor of the private one. This was actually the Renzi Government. Since there has been a lot about the subject of the Mezzogiorno and we are still talking about the issue of decontribution, it must be said first of all that it seems that until this year what will benefit the company that hires will be up to 24,000 euros per employee in the next three years; who will hire next year will have 8,000, who instead will hire in 2016 will have 4,000, and then enough. On the other hand, there was a structural rule, No. 407, which existed since 1990, which provided for 100% decontribution of INPS and INAIL charges for artisan enterprises, and the same was true in the South. You didn't want to say it, but it was a fierce cut that only facilitated the big companies in the North. In the same way, for the demolition of the IRES, put at least one dimensional roof, because once again we can make a little funny to the great Marchionne and say: We are all Marchionne, Italians, because so much money goes to him. To small entrepreneurs and micro-entrepreneurs, medium-sized entrepreneurs, workers and employees you say instead only to pay and also to feel the frustration of a Premier and a Government who say that everything is fine, when unfortunately the Italians still have bills on the bedside table to pay and the difficulties of running a family, including the difficulty of paying for performance or dentures, because also that has become a luxury. We even have a Minister of Health who dares to say that it is a normal prospect to cut this kind of performance, so they shorten the ranks, because the Italians just wait to stand in line to go and remove all their teeth and put on the dentures. This is what the Minister of Health tells us, as he says that with this new decree he will go to punish doctors, so up to now it has obviously not been done: if a doctor commits a crime he is not punished. We always think to mock the Italians and for this reason we will say our no to this Update Note to the DEF and the report that authorizes the deviation, as it is a deviation that we do not approve, unless it is done for the income of citizenship, to lower taxes to small and medium enterprises and help finally and really to start an investment policy in the South, the Center and the North that makes our country start again. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u59	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 Italy saved five billion euros in interest expenditure on public debt, thanks to a spread to historical minima, but at the same time increased primary current expenditure by five billion euros. The figures clearly emerge from the framework in the current legislation of the Note to the DEF, in which primary current expenditure increases by 38 billion over a five-year period. It should be said that we are analyzing the data of the Update Note to the DEF which have been validated by the Parliamentary Budget Office for the part in current legislation. Needless to remember, the DEF is a document derived from the DPEF, where the letter P was precisely for programming. I can therefore imagine the difficulty that there is in validating a policy framework as indefinite as that put by the Government to the attention of Parliament. There are many different percentage values, which will turn into more debt. In a different way, it is a debt but we do not know how these resources will be used. Indiscretions, rather than official documents, speak of a maneuver that is close to EUR 27 billion, especially by using the various clauses for which the European Union can authorise new indebtedness. Analyzing the hypothetical coverage in the field we find 13.4 billion in deficit; 7.5 of reduction in expenditure; 2.5 of reduction in tax expenditure, and the missing difference of 3.6 billion will have to be found with new taxes. So if we add these 3.6 billion to the 2.5 billion reduction in tax expenditure, we increase taxes to citizens by more than five billion, because tax cuts are also tax increases and as such should be calculated on the tax burden. Let us now look at the possible destinations: first of all the neutralization of the safeguard clauses for 2016 - as many have said - which provide for increases in VAT of 12.8 billion, increases in excise duty on fuels for 728 million and reductions in tax concessions for 3.2 billion, for a total of 16.8 billion. To these are added 3,4 billion to eliminate the TASI on the first house, 250 million to abolish the IMU on bolted machinery, 900 million for the elimination of agricultural IMU on rural buildings and 5.6 billion for the other announced measures: the reduction of the IRES rate, the deductibility IMU from IRAP for a standard model of the French law Macron, which increases by 40% the value of the depreciation of the capital goods purchased by the companies. Let's now analyze the resources really available: considering the real 7.5 billion deriving from the spending review, you can really easily realize the electoral program of Forza Italia: away the taxes from the first house, away the taxes on the bolted, via the agricultural IMU and beginning the reduction of the IRES. In order to reach those hypothetical 27 billion, however, there remain about 19,5 divided between new taxes and expenses in deficit, and so here we really go to realize the program of the Renzi Government. If you read the Note, it is not yet clear what measures will absorb part of the increase in net programmatic debt, which is equal to a point of GDP over the four years. We are therefore talking about 17 billion euros of greater deficit than the one planned by the Government in April. It is not clear whether the requests to the EU Commission will be granted only for structural measures or not. In fact, reducing taxes, as finally announced, using indebtedness would be a good novelty in terms of economic policy and would obviously have nothing structural. The deficit expenditure will again increase the stock of public debt and frankly it makes little sense to feed it through the reduction of taxes, because it would increase the burden on debt in the years to come, that on our children, also because, as we shall see, the data relating to the revision of the expenditure are very far from those assumed then by Commissioner Cottarelli. The debt will grow in real value of 125 billion from the beginning of the Renzi Government until the end of the framework to current legislation that arrives to 2019. The policy framework for reducing the debt-to-GDP ratio, in the presence of modest figures from privatisations, from a revision of expenditure and from a return plan to structural balance which is postponed to 2018. This is an alarm that we have clearly launched in all the speeches in this House during the examination of the Renzi Government's policy or spending measures. We now note that this alarm was also found by the Bank of Italy, as we heard during the hearings in the Budget Committee. Remove the certified debts of the p.a. on the other hand, while affecting debt, it would have had an important impact on company liquidity, investment and the real economy. In this regard, it must be said that these resources still amount to over 17 billion: the President of the Council paid only 15.8 in 18 months, compared to almost 22.8 paid in seven months by the then Letta Government. Other data in real terms that can be deduced from programming, followed up to now, therefore in current legislation, are as follows: expenditure grows by about 40 billion and taxes increase by 82 billion at the end of the programming period compared to the 2014 data. It is true that, as can be seen from the Note, both the value of public expenditure and that of the level of taxation, to existing legislation, if analysed in percentage terms compared to GDP, will give decreasing percentages between 2014 and 2019. However, it is legitimate to have doubts about the planned GDP growth in April, as is even more true of the programming presented at the end of September. The data planned in this Note are on the highest range and not on the average of the forecasts, as it would have been more prudent and appropriate to do. The mistake is clearly in the assessment of a GDP too optimistic, both with respect to the forecasts of international bodies (ECB, IMF and OECD), and with respect to the analyses of authoritative Italian study centres. The upward estimates of Italian GDP contrast mainly with the downward estimates of world GDP, which is 0.2 points less, as are revised downwards the estimates of world trade. With the new policy framework, which is specified in the Note only in percentage terms, public expenditure is expected to fall between 2015 and 2019. It's hard to believe, given that the spending review, compared to the April DEF, falls from about 10 to 7.5 billion, but without the government defining precise figures, nor a path on where, how and when the axe of the cuts will fall. It is difficult to believe, given the total number of safeguard clauses to be defused, which amounts to about 30 billion. The further error of this Note is that the exogenous variables, which so far have pushed this slightest recovery that we have seen in recent months, are lasting in the coming years. In this context, the costs of the public debt burden should also be underestimated, given that the liquidity injection of the European Central Bank should end at the end of 2016, subject to limited extensions. The thing to note in political terms is the absolute lack of linearity in the economic policy of the Renzi Government. The new approach, in fact, denies what has been done so far, so much so as to make us ask a question: but haven't two years been wasted unnecessarily that would have been useful to guide Italy towards a path of effective growth, instead of supporting a weak cyclical recovery? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mandelli, I invite you to conclude. MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Madam President, I will be very brief. Starting with the many, too many taxes deliberated or confirmed by this Government. There are too many taxes on Italian citizens and families, with taxes on homes and businesses, with taxes on bolted production facilities and farms, with the IMU on agricultural land. These are taxes that the government has now announced that it wants to eliminate. An example will be the suppression of the local tax before it even comes to light. I believe that everyone has also seen with alarm the data of the draft decree with respect to the required figures. So we're happy with this backsliding of the government. However, this will also lead to the likely re-introduction of an important component of derivative finance in municipal budgets, at least for 2016, and to the increase of other taxes at both national and local levels. This is absolutely in line with the reduction of responsibilities for local and regional authorities provided for by the constitutional reform, the examination of which has given us this window in the Senate Chamber today. We welcome the reduction of taxes, which is in our political DNA and which has always been in our programmes; on the contrary, it is bad an economic policy that only assumes that it leaves debts to future generations, in exchange for measures of pure electoral propaganda. For these reasons, the Forza Italia Group will say a strong and convinced no to this DEF Update Note. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u62	SANTINI (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the Democratic Party recognizes itself in the project contained in the DEF Update Note. At the moment, as many have pointed out, there are significant signs of improvement in the economic framework in Italy: a GDP that is higher than forecast (it has not been seen for a long time whether it was positive or higher), an employment that still shows timid but important signs of improvement, the consumption picture that is progressively settling at higher levels. As has been pointed out, this coincides with an international situation which still presents elements of new problematicity with the weakening of the emerging economies in great growth, now struggling with turbulence and with this dark evil of deflation, which undermines the possibilities of expansive support for the economy, in particular in Europe. All this makes it necessary - this is the sense of the project contained in the DEF Note - to make an extraordinary effort to consolidate the first signs of growth through explicit support for all the factors that can determine and consolidate it. These include, above all, investment, as has been said in many interventions, employment, domestic demand and the country's capacity for innovation. For this reason, it is important to use all the flexibility spaces that European rules allow us. As Senator Guerrieri Paleotti has rightly recalled, it will certainly be a difficult negotiation, but Italy can support it, strong of the credible path of reforms already carried out and in the process of being realized; strong of the investment programs that are emerging (from infrastructure to failure, to industrial policies in a more convincing way); strong also of the generous commitment - why not remember - that our country has spent in the reception of refugees in these difficult years, which now becomes finally a European problem. The Additional Note indicates precise, courageous and consistent objectives with this need; objectives at the same time important and challenging for the country. As you can see - many colleagues have mentioned the data, because you see it very well from the data - never as this time we have a deviation between the trend data, that is what would happen without this project, and the programmatic data, which allow, as far as expenditure, investment and the many indicators that I do not repeat and that do not enumber, significant improvements, even in the ratio of debt to GDP. The effort for growth, as we all know, begins consistently by deactivating the very strong safeguard clauses which should be in force as far as VAT and excise duties are concerned in January. It is necessary to do so - so to speak - and in doing so we also know that there is absolutely no need to give up attention to budgetary constraints and the stabilisation of public expenditure through credible programmes for revising this expenditure, based on the rationalization of all that can be rationalized, on the purchase of intermediate goods and services, on the system of participants, on all the economies that can be achieved and that, however, must - let us say forcefully - be compatible with the quantity and quality of services, particularly at the social and health levels. This review is an important point of this project, which we stress. In this effort for growth, of course, the reduction of taxes to households and businesses, which continues with this project, removing the tax on the first house, the agricultural IMU and the tax on bolted, with a progressive reduction of taxation on profits and similar interventions for small enterprises, with a complex project to relaunch investments, with a particular focus on the Mezzogiorno, introducing a robust tax credit and optimizing the use of the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund. The effort is also fueled by coherent labour policies, which allow the maintenance of the decontribution on new permanent recruitments, already included this year, also foreseeing a gradual reduction and perhaps concentrating the total maintenance in the Mezzogiorno for 2016. This plan also provides, at work, for social security flexibility, especially for those who will find themselves and still find themselves losing work at an older age, for whom relocation is more difficult. There will be a contribution here, I believe, which is also important for the new employment. Finally, always at the social level, this project includes universal policies to combat absolute poverty, going beyond the necessary partial experiments of these years and having as their priority and starting point families with children. Finally, from the institutional point of view, the financial sustainability of local authorities must be given particular attention, with the precise equal compensation of the lack of revenue from property taxes, but also with an organic reorganization of local finance, after the many changes of these years, with the overcoming of the Stability Pact, with the equalization based on standard costs and requirements and with a revision of Law n. 243. In addition to local authorities, I would also like to highlight the authorities of the vast area (the former provinces), for which the possibility of exercising the remaining functions, in particular roads and schools, must be safeguarded. 12:59 p.m. (Saints follow). I shall conclude by saying that in order to implement this programme, which - as I think we understand - is a programme for the country and is not a programme for the majority or minority, the flexibility which can be required at European level and which is currently under discussion in this House is necessary. We feel committed to supporting and honouring this choice, with the seriousness of the programmes and projects to be implemented, in order to optimise the use of the resources we are asking for. We also want to ask, without rhetoric, all the groups that have criticized the government's DEF project, claiming that many other interventions are missing, stronger and stronger for development, for work and for families - it is legitimate to think so - why do they not start to support, with the vote, our request for flexibility in Europe, in order to make it stronger? [[Applause from the PD Group.]] So we will be more sure that we can get it, since it serves the whole country, families, citizens and businesses, to give our country a future. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In fact, we feel the urgent need to respond to the many hardships, which still live today our families, our communities, the world of work and business. For this reason, we will vote in favour of Resolution No 100, in order to authorise the request to redefine the debt recovery plan at European level, and Resolution No 2 on the DEF Update Note, which contains this project. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u63	We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution on the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012. I note that this resolution requires the absolute majority - I repeat: the absolute majority - of the members of this House. Therefore, the vote on the motion for a resolution will take place by electronic means by simultaneous ballot. I therefore call on Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller to vote on the report pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 2012 by a simultaneous ballot. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Misto-IPI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u66	Formigoni (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would just like to point out that, in the previous vote, my vote in favour was not recorded by the electronic voting system.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u67	We take note of that, Senator Formigoni. We move on to motion for a resolution No 2 to the DEF Update Note, accepted by the Government, on which amendments have been tabled, which I call on the presenters to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u68	Mr President, I have tabled two amendments, which seek to include the subject of investment in research and development in the DEF Update Note. In particular, Amendment 2.1 incorporates an indication from the opinion of the 7th Commission, which concerns the use of funds derived from flexibility in the area of R &amp; D investment; it therefore implements one of the provisions contained in that opinion. Amendment 2.2 goes a little further and adds a point to the motion for a resolution No 2 which, going more specifically in the field of investment in research and development, provides for an extraordinary plan of recruitment of researchers in universities and public research bodies, this, as already announced in the debate, to meet a state of real suffering in universities and public research bodies and to combat the devastating precariousness that afflicts this sector and which has now reached unacceptable levels. It is enough to consider that, according to research conducted by FLC-CGIL, 95% of the precarious in universities and research are destined to permanently abandon this sector. Therefore, it is more necessary than ever - it is a real cultural emergency in this country - to foresee an extraordinary plan of recruitment, and in my opinion it is right that in the Government's document of economy and finance this possibility has been explicitly mentioned to finally give a concrete signal to the university and research so that the interest of this sector is at the top of the priorities of this Government; which so far has never happened both in the DEF of April and in this Update Note.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u69	Mr President, more than to illustrate Amendment 2.3, I would like to point out once again to my colleagues - as we did in the previous vote on the Economic and Financial Document - the need to safeguard the essential levels of health and social benefits, ensuring the quality and quantity of services. I think it is important because we are talking about the National Health Service, which is, in fact, national.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u70	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u71	On Amendment 2.1, given the importance of the subject, I turn to the Government. I am against Amendment 2.2 and I am against Amendment 2.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u72	Mr President, as far as Amendment 2.1 is concerned, I would like to turn to the presenter, Senator Bocchino, to suggest that the text of the amendment, while retaining it as it is, should nevertheless be included in the text of the resolution in another place, because where you have proposed to place it, it is a period relating to the relationship with the European Stability Pact and to the vote on the report that we have just made, so it is a very inappropriate place. The opinion is in favour, if the text of the amendment is placed at the end of point (i) of the operative part, where a set of measures is envisaged which the Government intends to take, and for which it would add to point (i) after the words, and the capital goods are the following: "and through an increase in public investment in research and development, with particular reference to human capital". If the proposer were to accept this position, since the rapporteur had been put back to the government, the opinion as a whole would be favourable. On the other hand, the opinion is opposed to 2.2 because the indication is too precise. If we were to follow this technique for each of the policies suggested here we would make an endless resolution. On Senator De Biasi's amendment 2.3, the opinion was in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bocchino, do you accept the proposal of Deputy Minister Morando?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u73	Mr President, of course, I have no difficulty in shifting my commitment, provided it remains one of the commitments of the resolution. It was included in that point because the flexibility clauses were referred to there and, in the opinion of the 7th Commission, it was intended to use the flexibility margins precisely for this type of investment, which, among other things, I think is extremely appropriate. I am in favour of this rewording, this shift. As far as the second amendment is concerned, I understand that numbers are inserted and that the details of this plan are also provided for. Perhaps we could think of a rewording to make the text more general, but honestly I believe that the reference to an extraordinary recruitment plan for research and university in such an important document should still remain. If there was no willingness to reformulate, of course, we would take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u76	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to endorse both the amendments tabled by Senators De Biasi and Bocchino. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u79	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, I would like to declare the vote in favour and the signing of Amendment 2.3 tabled by Senator De Biasi to motion for a resolution No 2. I would like to express a note of satisfaction because, as has been pointed out, not only in my own but also in many other interventions, the DEF lacked a minimum reference to the need to safeguard the national health system. I must tell the truth, the best is the enemy of good. We'll settle for that. We should have done better to incorporate the principle of uniformity and universality. We know, in fact, how and how the essential levels of assistance are, in fact, already affected - these are not personal considerations, but estimates of parliamentary bodies - in as many as seven regions of our country, as also emerged in the cognitive survey. The principle of universality keeps the country cohesive around the Tricolor and avoids the territorial lacerations that determine not only passive mobility of patients, but also a state of iniquity and inequality, which vulnerate the fundamental principle of universality of the national health system. It is obvious that by saying this, Senator De Biasi implicitly incorporates the principle of guarantees of financing which, as we have said in our resolution, can only be achieved by reducing the tax burden by at least one percentage point. In fact, the resources for health funding are essential to support their effectiveness and efficiency and to repair the serious damage that occurs every day. [[Applause from the CoR Group]] Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to endorse Senator De Biasi's amendment. FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). I'd like to sign it, too. ZIN (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, if you will allow me, I would like to endorse the amendments tabled by Senator De Biasi and Senator Bocchino. Zuffada (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to endorse Senator De Biasi's amendment. SCOMA (FI-PdL XVII). I'd like to sign it, too. Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, on behalf of the Group, we support Senator De Biasi's amendment. ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I too would like to endorse Senator De Biasi's amendment. Sonego (PD). On behalf of the Group, I support amendment 2.3. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. However, by voting, you express your orientation beyond your subscription.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u82	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for simultaneous voting by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u83	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bocchino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] A great success, Senator Bocchino, he saw! I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Bocchino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.3, tabled by Senator De Biasi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 2, tabled by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). It is therefore foreclosed that motions for resolutions Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, The review of the Update Note is thus concluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u86	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like to take advantage of your presence to remind you and to inform the House that the Environment Commission, in the last days of September, has concluded the examination of draft law No 1676, which contains environmental provisions, the so-called environmental connection to the public finance maneuver of 2014. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] This is a measure much awaited by the country, by the categories and local authorities, which contains for the purposes not only of environmental protection, but also for the purely economic purposes, i.e. linked to the economic recovery of the country, a series of positive proposals. This is a subject which is widely shared and which has already been dealt with by the Bureau by including it as one of the possible measures that could be taken in the Chamber by the end of the examination of the draft Constitutional Reform Act and before the draft Stability Act. I would like to remind you of this - and I have also sent you a letter - and of the groups present here in this House, because I believe that this is a good opportunity and a good time to conclude a positive process which has been long and troubled and to give the other branch of Parliament an appreciation before the adoption of the stability law. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to take this request seriously, clearly at the appropriate seat of the Bureau, which I believe to be making on behalf not only of the staff but of the whole of the 13th Commission. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u87	All right, Senator Marinello. I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 1.20 p.m. and resumed at 10.02 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u88	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft Constitutional Act No 1429-B, which was first approved by the Senate and first amended by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u91	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I only wish to speak to ask you to have access to the file of amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u92	I repeat for those who are reaching the House that we are examining the identical amendments 30.1c and 30.700, on which the Government expressed its opposition last night.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u95	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, since there is no support for electronic voting, I would ask you to check the quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u96	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 3.06 p.m. and resumed at 3.28 p.m.) The session is resumed. The Presidency declares the sub-amendments 30,200 (text 2), 1, 30,200 (text 2), 2,2, 30,200 (text 2), 27, 30,200 (text 2), 28. The list is still in distribution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u99	SOLLO (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u100	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.1c, tabled by Senators Bignami and Mussini, identical to amendment 30.700, tabled by Senators Campanella and Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 30.00 to 30.10c are inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u101	We greet a delegation from the Indonesian Parliament who is following our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u102	Amendment 30.11c has been withdrawn. I invite the representative of the Government to comment on the sub-amendments tabled to Amendment 30,200 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u103	I am against all the sub-amendments to Amendment 30,200 (text 2), tabled by Senator Russo, with the exception of Amendment 30,200 (text 2), tabled by Senator Calderoli, on which we refer to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u104	Amendments 30,200 (text 2/1 and 30,200 (text 2/2) are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.200 (text 2)/5.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u107	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, this amendment seeks to delete the words 'limited to the organisation of the justice of peace', because it seems to me that this provision constitutes a serious interference in competences which are exclusively reserved for the State and cannot be the subject of individual negotiations with the various regions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u108	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30,200 (text 2)/5, tabled by Senators D'Alì and Romani Paolo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30,200 (text 2/6), tabled by Senators D'Alì and Romani Paolo, identical to amendments 30,200 (text 2/7), tabled by Senator Crimi and other Senators, 30,200 (text 2/8), tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other Senators, and 30,200 (text 2/9), tabled by Senators Romani Maurizio and Bencini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30,200 (text 2)/10, tabled by Senator Mauro Mario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.200 (text 2)/11, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30,200 (text 2)/12, tabled by Senators D'Alì and Romani Paolo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30,200 (text 2)/13, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30,200 (text 2)/14, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.200 (text 2)/15, which is identical to Amendment 30.200 (text 2)/16.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u111	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, it seems to me absolutely wrong that, with regard to the State and the Regions (and then we will see why we do not propose that it be the State and the Regions, however, that they implement differentiated policies) and on a matter in which the State already has a very large and expensive network (that of the Institute of Foreign Trade, which already responds to all the needs that come from the national territory), rather than going to simplify and reduce expenditure, we create the premises for creating a parallel network and certainly with duplication of costs, also with regard to foreign trade. You will then explain to us what this simplification consists of, which is justice, a simpler and fairer state, which on television is ammanned almost every evening, if instead we continue to proliferate public structures to the detriment of the treasury.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u112	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30,200 (text 2)/15, tabled by Senators D'Alì and Romani Paolo, identical to amendment 30,200 (text 2)/16, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30,200 (text 2)/17, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.200 (text 2)/18.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u115	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, at this point it seems to me that there is a need for clarification, including on the part of the rapporteur of the amendment and the Government. Is this possibility of further negotiation on certain subjects (which should be beyond the first constitutional forecast), which should be possible to dedicate to the Regions, reserved only to regions with ordinary status or reserved for all regions? This is the same important issue as Amendment 30.200 (text2)/19. We cannot allow certain prerogatives to be assigned to the Regions by ordinary statute and not to the Regions by special statute only because, perhaps, the Regions by special statute have a statute incorporated in the Constitution. But if the constitutional rule were to cover all the regions, in my opinion it would also overcome the constraint of the particular rule, which is that of the regional statutes. It is an important issue because five regions of our national territory would be excluded from this possibility of negotiating with the State, on which we are critical, once the amendment is approved. It does not seem to me that this provision meets Article 3 of the Constitution. I therefore call on my colleagues and the Government to review this point carefully, because I find it absolutely restrictive and therefore unfair.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u116	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30,200 (text 2)/18, tabled by Senators D'Alì and Romani Paolo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.200 (text 2)/19.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u119	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, that is what Mr D'Ali has just said. I try to explain, and also somehow convince, that it would be useful to accept this amendment. We are concerned that in the end there are too many differences in the text. The fundamental part of the Constitution is all oriented towards creating conditions of equality. The specialty of regions with special status is linked to a specific condition, which has an influence on economic and social development, on the backwardness of the economic system and on the problems of civil growth of those communities. On that it intervened at the beginning of the history of the Republic and very few changes were made along the way. The modification of Title V of Part II, which took place about ten years ago, resulted in a substantial equivalence through the subject matter of concurrent legislation and now, if some Regions with ordinary statutes are given the opportunity to intervene on certain subjects, on the basis of state laws, and the Regions with special statutes - as configured by this article - are excluded from the Constitution from the possibility of accessing the regulation of those matters, it consumes a negative difference for those whom we have recognized to be worthy of positive attention. A condition of difficulty is added to an objective condition of difficulty pre-existing to the constitutional dictation. I therefore think it would be useful to replace the word "others" with the word "alle" and thus cut off the bull's head and put them all in the same conditions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u122	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am a little surprised that there has not been a word of comment, namely that there has been a word of ratification of this discrimination which the Government and the presenter of the amendment want to implement with regard to the regions with special status. If there were also an interpretive word, in the sense that we misunderstood this rule and that the changes we are proposing are ultronoe, I could also understand, from the acts of the Senate, that it turns out that however that to other Regions is understood extended to all the Regions. If, however, our changes are rejected and there is no note of authentic interpretation by the presenter of the amendment, and of course not even by the Government, we must understand that we want to exclude the Regions with special status from these opportunities that are given to other Regions, with the consequence - as I have allowed myself to express by illustrating other sub-amendments - that, for example, in the organization of the judges of peace (matter reserved so far to the exclusive competence of the Ministry of Justice) particular reorganizations can be made in the Regions with ordinary statutes, but these same reorganisations cannot be done in the territories of the Regions with special statutes. It seems to me truly incomprehensible, in view of our continuing willingness to enter into the substance of the issues - as the majority has repeatedly invited us to do, and as we are doing - that there is this rubber wall on the part of the majority and the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u123	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.200 (text 2/19), tabled by Senator Uras and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u126	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I confirm my Group's failure to participate in the votes and I am not expressing myself either, but I will try to clarify - and I would like to pay attention to this - why the problems raised by Senator D'Alì and Senator Uras and the lack of answers will be clarified in my speech. I have appreciated the acceptance of the reformulation by my colleague Russo, because, even if it is a few things, it is possible to attribute something more to the other regions as well. I do not see why, if they are attributable to the other Regions, the same thing cannot be done with respect to the Regions with a special Statute; on one condition, however: equality with respect to others. Where's the trick? It is not in this article, because it states that the law of the State is to proceed. The trick is solved in Article 39. [[Applause from Senator Mussini]] If the amendments tabled are removed, it is seen that with one of them it is even expected that the same Regions with Special Statute and the Autonomous Provinces exercise this power (which is therefore attributed by Constitution) by attenuating with the forecast according to the modalities established with the norm of implementation. This is the case in a number of amendments. Mr President, you teach me that the law is an act, a source of law, while the implementing rule is an unclear draft legislation. We want to say, therefore, that those Regions must not modify the statute - because, otherwise, that would apply to everything else - and, with a rule of implementation (probably with an act of secondary rank), they want to see those functions attributed. All I'm asking for is a gesture of equality. It seems to me right that the Special Statute Regions can also have these functions, but they must also have them with the rules that apply to the ordinary Regions, that is, with the law of the State. If then in Article 39 you were able, once again, to bring home a yes from the Government through some fantomatic reformulation, I am sorry but this is a vote that goes to harm all the other Regions and especially the sources of the law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u127	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 30,200 (text 2/20), on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 30,200 (text 2/20), tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.200 (text 2/21), tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.200 (text 2/22).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u130	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate the legislative schizophrenia that motivates this constitutional reform. The legislation on competing matters was certainly a part to review, but not in these terms. In particular, this amendment makes the point as if the most valuable aspect was that of expenditure and revenue, while the problem is not there, it is that of competences. At a time when the main problem in this country is to move forward, speed things up and have legal clarity and clarity, uniformity is important with regard to issues such as social policies, health and safety at work which, I repeat, are rules of criminal rank. Moreover, the Constitutional Court has repeatedly stated that everything concerning health and safety at work is a matter for the State. The fact that work safety is separated from active policies is a schizophrenic discourse, because it's like I'm talking about a machine and I'm releasing the engine from the vehicle. I would also like to point out that, even yesterday, President De Biasi's speech impressed me very much, because in all the hearings and in all the meetings it was said - she herself had said - that we would imprison ourselves to the chains in order to bring back the competences to national level in order to simplify and guarantee to all the same rights in terms of health, removing those inequalities so unacceptable between the Region and the Region and even, within the same Region, between Asl and Asl and, within the same Asl, between hospital and hospital. In my opinion it would have been appropriate to stress a moment more the need for further clarification that the competence of all the legislation concerning occupational safety, health and social policies - which are annexed, because they are not two different and disjoined strands - was state, and so also the Government of the territory. I would say that we needed to make it more clear that everything that is legislation must be national and therefore state-owned, and everything that is organization must be at regional level. I don't think this gives that important input to move forward and change direction. We will be even more confused and we will therefore be able to approve an original rule, because in the system of the sources of the norms the Constitution is the reference for all the others, from which already wrong rules will start, as from a sick tree arrive fruits certainly not healthy, \"marci \" (Translated with Google Translate) We must present ourselves to Europe, but before Europe we must not always pretend or pack a nice package that then has nothing or just smoke inside. We are producing only smoke, while we could seize the opportunity of constitutional reform to give real cogency to what the country requires. Instead, we got caught up in currents, rivalries, disrespects and important things have not been made clear. The clarity of the Constitution of our Constituent Fathers has been replaced by this way of doing it: we just needed that, between one article and another, there were a Twitter 1, a Twitter 2 and a Twitter 3, with an extra Facebook I like it. That is not the way to legislate, and that saddens me very much. I hope that in the next "review," something will come out to move this, which was definitely not the right way to move forward. The tones in this House have proved it, but those pass while the Constitution, unfortunately, will remain and we will all do it, with criminal rules that will be wandering, with legislative voids, injustices and a continuous gossip that will certainly not benefit anyone. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u133	SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked to speak in relation to the remarks made by Mr Fucksia, who can also record, in the texts we are about to adopt, a change that she herself much wanted: I think that in the whole of the reform, the rewriting of Title V of Part II of the Constitutional Charter is the most convincing product. Unfortunately, we have been able to verify in the behavior, in fact, how wrong the tree of our federalism has turned out as drawn by the previous reform of our Constitution and in particular how inefficient the Regions have proved (to some extent even ineluctably) in managing competences, moreover often competitors, not consistent with the objective requirements underlying those subjects. The case of health and safety at work is perhaps the most obvious, so much so that I believe there is no region today that would like to invoke that competence. The decision that has been taken to restore this competence in the exclusive availability of the State guarantees unity of regulation and national experience and let us hope, downstream of this constitutional definition, also a regulation such as Senator Fucksia and I agree with it and it seems to me with increasing consensus. I am referring here to overcoming traditional legal formalism and, instead, to adherence to substantive criteria which would make companies responsible in particular for creating safe environments, beyond formal requirements. However, let us not confuse this competence with those of active policies. A separation can take place in exceptional circumstances because, in order to produce that federalism to variable geometries that is assumed in the new article 116 of the Constitutional Charter, we need capacities that frankly few Regions and - I see Mr Berger - few autonomous Provinces (to use a plural euphemism) in the state can reasonably boast; those exceptions, however, can in that case confirm the rule of a unified vision of active policies, so that they are finally such as to include the weakest subjects in our still inefficient labour market. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u136	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I rise to vote in favour of amendment 30,200 (text 2/22) and also to explain the condition of some regions, so that we do not pretend that we in Parliament do not know what is going on. About ten years ago we in Sardinia reported article 8 of the Special Statute, which was first constitutional rule and then deconstitutionalized. This article deals with the revenue for the Autonomous Region of Sardinia. The Government knows very well, as the Budget Committee of this Senate knows very well and as all those who have dealt with public finance know very well that for about ten years the State systematically violates Article 8 of the Special Statute of the Region, improperly and faultily reducing the revenues of the Region of Sardinia, those to which it has the right by rule of statute contained within a constitutional legislative provision. To President Calderoli I also say that we have a difference compared to Lombardy: Sardinia is an island and we Sardinian citizens cannot take the train to go to Brussels, but we must take the plane, the ship, find the places, we must pay more, we must market our products with an addition of effort and money in more than can happen to those who live and operate in Lombardy, Milan and in the other cities of our country. We are cut off from the national networks of energy, methane, the State Railways. We are cut off from national telecommunications networks; we are essentially a region that objectively leads to a disadvantage. It would be necessary for the Republican Constitution, which in its fundamental part contains the principles of equality, finally to stop recognizing privileges and begin to treat Italian citizens, including the Sardinians, as all citizens of this country and of this Europe deserve. Which you don't do. [[Senator Floris' applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u137	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30.200 (text 2/22), tabled by Senator Mauro Mario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.200 (text 2/23).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u138	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u140	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, since the Government has not wanted or has not been able or has not been able to answer some very simple questions that I asked in the course of the debate on my sub-amendments, I now turn directly to the presenter and colleagues of the Budget Commission. To limit the balance between expenditure and revenue in order to be able to implement new policies in the important areas that Senator Russo's amendment envisages is a false target. Here the problem is whether the Region has the resources necessary to implement those policies, resources that could be European funds, past funds not deriving from the balance of the budget, that we know to be the annual income account and not the assets of financial availability of a Region. In addition, apart from the fact that subordinate to the budgetary balance of the previous year, however, it means to unbalance, if necessary, the budget of the year to come because the policies of implementation cost, the real problem is to check if the Region has its willingness to do so, that they could be capital funds or funds deriving from third entities compared to the pure and simple cash balance of that Region. So, in essence, by proposing my amendment I force the forecast of the amendment and remove a limitation that could eventually lead the Region not to carry out some activities, although it has available sums that are not part of its annual budgetary balance. My regret, Mr President, is that this reform, with many of its expressions, has not gone through the scrutiny of the Budget Commission, because many of these inaccuracies - I certainly do not want my colleagues, better than I do in various areas and perhaps in the same financial matter - could have been corrected with a passage also in the consultative in the Budget Commission, thus giving the country a 'hygienicly' text cleaner from the regulatory and also implementing point of view. I believe that what I have said and written is easily intuitable. How can we limit a policy of implementation to the balance between expenditure and revenue when, I repeat, there can be the possibility of drawing, from the Region, third availability, as in the example I have made, on the funds deriving from European funding?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u141	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30,200 (text 2/23), tabled by Senators D'Alì and Romani Paolo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30,200 (text 2)/24, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.200 (text 2)/25.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u142	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u144	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, although my call to the attention of both the Government and the presenter of the amendment is absolutely useless, they are engaged in all other matters rather than following the debate... [[Comments of the Undersecretary Pizzetti.]] I say that if we don't get answers and not even a comment, it means you have more important things to do. The problem I raise is the hierarchy of the legislative sources, Mr President: the preventive understanding between the State and a Region, on which the Chambers are based, including the Chamber of Deputies, therefore the one that will now have the dominion of the legislation, is a formidable limitation to the possibility of the same Chamber, then also of the next Senate, halved in its powers and debased in its functions, to intervene to modify that understanding. We know the meaning of this word and it is not enough to say "on the basis of understanding." This sentence must therefore be abolished, and I am also referring to my subsequent sub-amendment, or transformed into "hearing." I would also like to address Senator Sacconi, who, with great opportunity, intervened earlier on a principle of hierarchy of regulatory sources. If we really want to bring it back to an overall balance that depends on national legislation, this possibility of intervention too, in addition to the prerogatives granted to the Regions, we must bring it back to a beehive of state legislation that is not conditioned by anyone. You have already killed the Senate, so you also kill the House, in some of its regulatory possibilities, because it is bound to something, while a national legislative body should not have any constraint, because it becomes an absolute sovereign body. Let us therefore also reflect on these details, because we are drafting a new Constitution, not an ordinary norm, which, as often happens, can be immediately replaced in the decree-law after its adoption (and this Government has given us dozens and dozens of examples). We are rewriting the Constitution, therefore; with this possible approval, we are binding the House in its prerogatives of legislative autonomy - let's forget the old Senate, now completely destroyed - so I do not think we can agree on this. I therefore appeal to all my colleagues who are in the Senate today, but who could be in the House tomorrow, because they still have a current legislative responsibility towards the next Parliament. Mr President, I believe that, even from the point of view of constitutional control by bodies superior to this House, this should be worth paying attention. I would therefore ask you to report it to the relevant offices.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u145	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30,200 (text 2)/25, tabled by Senators D'Alì and Romani Paolo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30,200 (text 2)/26, tabled by Senators D'Alì and Romani Paolo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 30,200 (text 2/27 and 30,200 (text 2/28) are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 30.200 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u146	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u148	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, this amendment - in fact, more in the original text than in the current one - introduced an area of debate on overcoming the regional specialty, therefore, the distinction between regions with special status (with broad competences of legislative autonomy as well) and regions with ordinary status. We know that this system has basically failed and that solutions must be introduced. The 5 Star Movement has long stated what the exit routes can be to have a policy closer to the citizens and, at the same time, not fragmented and fragmented in the local potentates that are being determined. The solution is to take away power from parties, which are private-law organisations and which have entered into the judicial chronicle of recent years in a dark light that really alienates citizens from participation in public life. We could say that they are the emblem of anti-politics. The subject is being put here in a very unacceptable way in terms of the method. This debate could have opened up in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but we know that it has been prevented. In the same way, it could have been put in this House, but during the general debate I did not hear any speeches on this subject. It may be that the debate has been done here and there, but this has been incongruous because the debate has taken place on a huge amount of amendments and in a flat-rate and time-bound manner. We are now going to analyse this amending proposal with time and availability to listen absolutely unsuitable. We see it proposed - you, Mr President, will remember the tensions that have been created and then quickly re-established - in a virtual way, since we had already begun to discuss the amendment without even having the text. The amendment came in extremis because it was the result of a mediation carried out outside the debate, debate and debate, in the context of a discussion - I might say a barter - between a party that asked for votes and some people willing to give them. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I heard a senator's complaint in defense of a senator appealed with the adjective "sold." Sold is a past participle. The same senator answered, "What have you brought home? I understand that we have here, like a pimple bursting, an eruption of truth. How this entire reform was brought home through... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I know it's bad, but we've been saying it's bad for months.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u149	Senator Endrizzi, I invite you to use political terms.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u150	ENDRIZZI (M5S). All right, I'll use political terms... [[Senator Mancuso's comments.]] No, please, I can make a mistake on my own.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u151	Senator Mancuso, please don't bother.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u152	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Here we denounce in a resounding way, even if on a substantially small episode, how we have obtained a consensus that is not of conscience, but is of convenience. The amendment basically states that greater powers can be conferred not on all regions, but only on those which have the accounts in order, i.e. by making subsidiarity subject to an economic aspect, thus making it conditional on the loss of solidarity between institutions at national level. Here constitutional principles are denied. The formula "dead father" is still back. Allow me, Mr President, this is a legal statement. Yes, I know, you challenge me, Mr President, but this is also used in the courts. Why dead dad? Because you promise something that will happen tomorrow. The Region may ask, but the pact can be sealed in the understanding between State and Region, that is never. If the central power of this reform is at the same time the client and receiver (from high powers), then this understanding will never be there. But what can be spent on the territory? The satisfaction of a name written on an amendment and a credibility that grows at the local level, but is lost in terms of the conscience and credibility of the entire policy. That is why we are not discussing this matter, we are not discussing how to change Italy and its institutional structure. We are discussing a vulgar barter, which we cannot accept. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u153	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u155	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I rise to vote in favour of this amendment, precisely for the reasons which have already been mentioned in some way by both Senator Calderoli and Senator D'Alì. This amendment, in conjunction with Article 39, achieves exactly what the two Members had rightly pointed out earlier. On the one hand, it strengthens the path of differentiated autonomy for ordinary regions, which, as we know, according to Title V amended 2001 has worked up to a certain point, because one has never managed to reach any understanding in this sense, trying to solve some problems emerged on the basis of experience. On the other hand, since special autonomy is something different and has a different source, the path for them is different and the source must obviously be different. Therefore Article 39 complements this passage in some way and extends to the Regions with a special Statute the possibility to use the same identical mechanism that this amendment provides for the Regions with ordinary statutes, precisely with Article 116, third paragraph, not with a rule of implementation - as Senator Calderoli had pointed out - but with the same method of the reinforced covenant law. The Government, as it happens for the ordinary Regions, could always deny its consent; for which there is also the concern of Senator D'Alì, both not to treat the Regions with special statute in a deleterious way compared to those with ordinary statutes, and to allow the central State to have "the hand on the hand brake." This instrument is exactly what has so far been foreclosed to special autonomy, while it was allowed to ordinary people. In this way, you put the Regions all on the same level and you try to make this mechanism of asymmetrical differentiation work better; so you close a circle well that until now had not been closed. That is precisely why, in addition to declaring the Group's vote in favour, I would ask Senator Russo to sign the amendment by all the Senators of the For the Autonomies Group. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u156	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u158	Bisinella (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, our vote on this amendment, as it has been reworded, is certainly in favour. I want to retrace how this amendment was reworded. As you know, Mr President, we have tabled a few amendments, all of which are substantive and mostly focused on Title V of the Constitution, and in particular on the parts relating to the competences of the regions, namely Articles 116, 117 of the Constitution and 119 on financial autonomy, which are fundamental to us. In particular, we have tabled an amendment to Article 116, third paragraph, aimed at allowing the regions with ordinary statutes additional forms and special conditions of autonomy. We know, in fact, that in our country, in many years since its approval, this de facto provision has never been substantially realized. We have also tabled specific amendments on the subjects assigned to the competence of the regions, within the framework of Article 117 of the Constitution. The Government has therefore proposed a rewording of the amendment under consideration, explicitly saying that requests from several colleagues were accepted, on which there was therefore a certain sharing. In gathering these demands, we have come to see a strengthening of the legislation, which is, in our view, a step towards regionalism. I would also like to highlight this because our amendments to Articles 116 and 117 have been accepted and included in this rewording. Thanks to our intervention, in fact, has been inserted the reference to social policies and trade with foreign countries, which therefore return to the head of the Region. With this new wording of article 116, third paragraph, of the Constitution, therefore, in addition to the matters already provided for in the current text, there will be the possibility of an important intervention on the territories in the above matters, for the virtuous regions, which are in condition of budgetary balance, as is clearly indicated in the article under consideration. In this way it is intended to reward precisely the administrations that have been able to administer well and that will prove to be so, in a responsible and prudent way, in order to render an efficient service to their citizens. In this way the economy is also growing and the territories are given a further opportunity for economic development: I am thinking about the subject of foreign trade. These additional forms and conditions of autonomy must then be read in conjunction with the functions that can already be well exercised by the regions, ranging from school to the environment, to tourism. So let's think about the many possibilities of intervention and use that there are and the additional forms of autonomy that can finally be exercised by the Regions. Let us welcome the call made by my colleague, Senator Palermo, when he says that even for regions with special status this is an important push for a real realization of differentiated federalism, which is the political mother of our battles [[Applause from Senator Bellot]] and that we regret to see abandoned by those who waste time making sterile instrumental polemics [[Applause from Senator Bellot]] , losing sight of the objective of enabling the regions to exercise their competence in these matters. [[Applause from Senators Del Barba and Dalla Zuanna]] Therefore, we have put in place an open, political sharing and confrontation on the substance and content, thus managing to improve the text: our objective is in fact to have an amendment of the text approved, which meets the needs of the regions. I would remind you that this amendment incorporates requests from the regions. We are therefore very pleased to say that, thanks to our intervention, our contribution, our improved contribution to the text, we have created this step forward and this true thrust, that if read in conjunction with the norm set out in the next article, they constitute a closure of the circle so far never realized, towards true regionalism, which can be better defined as differentiated federalism. We shall therefore vote in favour of this amendment, Article 116 as it is drawn up. I remember that Article 116 (3) is the political mother of our battles. I am also pleased to be able to say that perhaps this, even with respect to what we should face in the next steps of the examination of the constitutional text, is the most correct and responsible way to fulfil our task as legislators when we face a constitutional text, in the interests of the country and our fellow citizens, that really goes in the perspective of responding to the needs of the Regions. This is the way, and not a sterile instrumental polemic. We will therefore vote in favour of amendment 30,200 (text 2). I would also like to thank my fellow Members for their contribution to improving the text because, objectively, the text as it stands is improved. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u159	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u161	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall use this amendment to make a much broader speech on health and social resources in relation to the state and the regions. When a political debate is held in the presence of responsible politicians, it focuses on how to optimise resources and ensure the maximum we can afford. Today as yesterday there are many factors of evident disparity between the rich and the poor. It is about the ability to preserve life and to drive away death within a sustainable economic framework that measures the greatness of a ruling political class; politicians who can make choices for their people that go in the direction of achieving the highest level of health for their people without compromising the future of the next generations. Kind of what we're trying to do. However, when we say that we guarantee the same quality for all Italians, this statement is very conditioned by the way in which we organized Italy, that is, by devoting the entire health management to the regions that, with their money, have in practice power of life and death on every aspect of the health system, in part also of the health system, and I do not think that this amendment goes in the sense of changing this state of affairs. Basic health infrastructures, which are also crucial to the health of citizens, are under the full jurisdiction of local authorities: Regions and municipalities. It was the absolute devolution of health to the regions, with the reform of Title V of the Constitution in 2000 which definitively sanctioned the end of the national health system and the birth of the regional health system, or rather regional health systems. This event, born badly and hastily, also for reasons of political consensus, has strongly contributed to the disastrous and dangerous situation of public finances and with them the various regional health systems. There is therefore a profound difference in the quality of the service provided to citizens. All this depends on many factors, due to poor operational management, made of inability, corporateism, management of consent, until it reaches waste and bad business. The dominant feature of the regional health system is the qualitative difference for citizens, with equal money spent. This is unfortunately the real problem. If we analyse the different regional health systems and the repercussions on the national health system, we can only say that the system is now governed with divergent interests: between the citizen who wants health, obtaining or taking advantage of less and less public services, and the politician/ administrator who has to save and therefore, for budget reasons, cannot provide clinical services at an appropriate level of quality and quantity. The functions of the State must therefore be designed in such a way that as an individual service provider it becomes the regulator and controller of the health services market. It is much easier to control than not to deliver, and in this function the active role of citizens is crucial to avoid further distortions or collusions of the political control system. The State, after all, must be rigorous on the systems of checking the quality of the care provided, endowing itself with timely and effective instruments of intervention, punishing hard the distributors who do not comply with the criteria of clinical quality in all its meanings. But if we really want this, we must ultimately review the State-Regions relationship, and above all we need a radical reform of the National Health Service and the health system. This is the reform of the reforms and in my opinion it must be addressed immediately because this method attacks the great topic of corruption, tax evasion (changing the financing model), associationism and the armchair factory; finally, the country is redesigned in a logic of meritocracy. As Amendment 30,200 does not respond to these characteristics, my personal vote will be against.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u162	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u164	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, on this amendment we cannot agree because we have pointed out that it involves a major alteration of the equality of citizens on national territory, a target error on the conditions of viability by the regions, on the basis not of their financial resources - as it would be right - but of their budgetary balances; after that, the main vulnus is that of the absolute activity, and therefore autonomy, of the future Chambers as they emerge from this constitutional reform. The problem will be that these so-called laws of understanding between the State and the Regions will go to the Chambers, at best, as today the ratifications of the international treaties arrive to us. Therefore, the Rooms will not be autonomously legitimated to a change, but will only be legitimated to a reception or not, or at most to modifications but on the basis of the text that arrives on the table. I think that in the interests of the legislative autonomy of the future Chambers - and this, Mr President, should also be the subject of reflection on the part of those who are called upon to safeguard the next Parliament in its integrity as a constitutional body - we should consider this. We cannot think that the State is shattered, coming to the concept that treaties are applied between the State and the Regions as if they were international treaties and that we are going to examine the House of those intended as such. There is therefore a need for action on this issue. I understand that this does not affect all my interlocutors very much; it does not affect my colleagues. I think that the first ones to regret having adopted such a rule will be the future members of the majority - we do not know what they will be - of the House of Deputies, just as they will emerge from this reform.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u165	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u166	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u167	Zuffada (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I disagree with the explanation of vote that has just been made. In these times I have often heard of the Regions as an extraordinarily negative effect, so that regionalism is seen as the ruin of this country. I do not accept this type of speech, also because I belong to a Region, Lombardy, which, with regard to the competences that are remembered here, has given an excellent example of itself, having for over ten years balanced budgets. I am correctly told that this has not always happened at national level, so the essential levels of care are not even guaranteed often and willingly in the health sector. I am therefore perfectly convinced - and I agree - that the state must intervene in those situations where this is not the case, but the decisions taken so far and the same amendment tabled here with regard to health protection do not respond to this need, so much so that there has been a change compared to the initial statement, which referred to health protection, social policies and food safety. On the contrary, a change was introduced by the Government, then accepted by the proposer, which refers only to general and common provisions for social policies and foreign trade. To vote for an amendment of this kind, in my opinion, is in contrast to the famous differentiated federalism. Honestly, I think that, in accordance with Article 117, rather than saying that the Regions can ask the Central State to have further delegations, it would have been appropriate, once the criteria and standards for obtaining them have been established, to say that the Regions exercise the delegations that are assigned to them, reserving to the State the possibility of intervening on those who do not exercise them. On the contrary, with this diction we return precisely to the centralist mindset for which the State grants (not the Regions exercise the powers). This affects, in particular, those regions which have exercised their powers well. So, on the other hand, everything is being called into question, and that is not good for me. Some have said that the citizens of the various regions have differentiated services and that this is the problem of famous subsidiarity and solidarity. To them I would like to remind you that it is the same Regions that, with the appropriate resources, of which they make good use, participate largely in the equalization funds that are then divided on the other Regions. Such behaviors go to hit the healthy part of the country and you have a leveling down, not an improvement upwards. For these reasons, since there is not, in the amendment proposed by the Government, health protection but only a reference to social policies, my vote will not be against but abstaining. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u168	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u170	Martini (PD). Mr President, I declare the Democratic Party Group's vote in favour of amendment 30,200 (text 2). We appreciate the change that is being proposed and at the same time we take on board, with our political and cultural debate and with the things that I will say, also the problematic and critical views that have been expressed on these matters by members of our Group and also by other senators in this House. The amendment - and I would like to start from here - sets itself a positive objective, namely to recover from the regions, through Article 116 of the Constitution, certain qualified competences, after the intervention of the House, which was, in these respects, very penalising. Perhaps this recovery could have been carried out directly with Article 117 of the Constitution, where we talk about the division of competences, but the Government preferred not to reopen the complicated discussion on the subject and then proceed through Article 116. I believe that it is right to proceed with this recovery and I would urge my fellow Members in this House - my Group and others - to look into the comments that have emerged from numerous hearings in this respect during the summer, which have also been very precise on this issue. With the choices of the House he took a step back a little 'too strong and it was right, legitimate and necessary for the Senate to provide some correction. This is therefore a positive proposal which can satisfy the positions most sensitive to regionalism - in which I personally find myself - but which does not have to worry, in my opinion, even those who are more convinced that they have to entrust themselves to the State for certain policies of great social impact and the opportunity to ensure a balance between the various bodies involved. I say this first of all because the devolution of powers to the regions provided for in this amendment will have to follow a very rigorous procedure, well described in the text of the reforms and this will not be so simple and trivial as it seems to me to be the subject of Mr D'Ali, with his prediction that everything will be reduced to a single ratification procedure. This is not the case, because we need a state law approved by the two chambers, we need to hear the local authorities and we need an agreement between the State and the Region. This is not a trivial thing and those who have had the regional experience - and I am lucky to be among them - and have reached agreements between State and Region, know that these things are never trivial. It is therefore an iter that gives guarantees so strong that it makes the grid very selective. I believe that it can be expected that it will not be easy to reach this point and that there will have to be many conditions. That is the first point. I therefore think that we can understand and share some concerns, especially with regard to social policies. I have heard quite rightly that we must not create disparities in the country, that integration between social and health care must not be broken down, that we must not shift resources from the social sector, and I believe that these are the right needs of all of us, of the whole Democratic Party, and I think of so much of this House, and that we must also take the necessary initiatives. However, I believe that there are instruments to meet these needs, in particular not to separate the health and social sectors. On the other hand, I believe that the Regions can also rely on their involvement in the Senate, because the agreements and laws will now be implemented in the light of the sun, before the whole Parliament and the other Regions and therefore in a much more controlled way. Moreover - I want to close this part and then conclude - if we can talk today about social and health integration it is more for the experiences that have been made in some regions than for the ministerial circulars or for the practical repercussions of the national health plans. Of course, my vision is perhaps a bit partisan, but I say it quietly: this is a fact. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In any case, in conclusion, I believe that we must proceed without losing sight of the concerns and reflections that have been highlighted, which I take full responsibility for, as I believe we must not lose the regionalist inspiration. It would be a great paradox if the launch of the Senate of the autonomy were marked by a judgment of unreliability of the Regions. We need a rational but dynamic balance and the ability to pool the competences of the central state and the regions. In this regard, I conclude by saying that I would also be in favour of an even more radical solution on this subject: I would not be listing the matters on which the State lays down general rules, because in my opinion they should all be. The State should always have the right to dictate the framework rules on everything and then the Regions operate independently and the Senate of the autonomous is the seat where they account. If anything, the real shadow of the reform is in the process leading to the introduction of general and common provisions: it will be an ordinary law on which the Senate does not have a particular weight, even if it interferes with the nature of the regional legislative power, but this is another problem and Article 10 has already approved it. We can without reservation approve this new text of Article 116 of the Constitution and with the confidence that we will be able to govern all this step together because we want to proceed, without forgetting, however, all the concerns and annotations that have been highlighted here. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Laniece.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u171	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u172	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u173	Mr Warra (PD). Mr President, Senator Martini's speech reminds me of a problem of personal consistency. The amendment introduced to the House was followed by an agenda accepted by the Government to the Senate at the request of an amendment of mine and an agenda presented by several colleagues from the 12th Commission. The reason why we strongly asked that, not health - it is clear - but the general and common health provisions should be included among the areas of exclusive competence of the State is because we think - and I think - that social policies are a fundamental point for the rights of citizenship. These are the common provisions that cannot be appropriate to the exclusive competence of a Region, but the whole space of autonomy, experimentation, social and health integration remains that many virtuous Regions, including the one to which I honour to belong, have put in place. I think it is precisely a problem of incongruity to speak and recognize the need for common provisions and then to ensure that they are taken over by a single region. I would also like to say that I really have a specific problem of personal coherence because, having had the honour of having the delegation on social policies in two governments of this Republic, I was able to touch with hand the very strong backwardness that our country records in social policies and above all the huge territorial gaps. If we leave the most virtuous regions to manage these problems on their own and do not feel part of defining the general and common dispositions of an entire community, these gaps will only deepen. For me, it is a matter of conscience not to vote on this amendment. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Romani Maurizio and Ricchiuti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u174	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u176	SANTINI (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask whether it is possible to add to this amendment the signatures of the signatories to Amendment 30.201 incorporated in it. In addition to my signature, I am referring to those of my colleagues Filippin, Dalla Zuanna, Puppato and, if they wish, also of the senators De Poli, Dalla Tor and Conte. [[Senator Del Barba points out that he wants to add his signature.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u177	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u178	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u179	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u180	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I share Mr Zuffada's views and I am sorry to say that I am voting against and abstaining from the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u181	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 30,200 (text 2), tabled by Senator Russo and other senators. I would remind you that, if adopted, all the remaining amendments to Article 30 are precluded, as they are essentially a replacement for the whole article. Furthermore, in the event of approval, Article 30 will not be put to the vote because this amendment replacing it is adopted. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u182	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u184	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, on the amendment I have just adopted, I have avoided speaking in an explanation of vote or in any other place. First of all, I would like to thank you for allowing you for the first time to prevent the Government from using, as it had done in the past, an amendment to reformulate it, rather than putting forward its own amendment which would therefore have been subeminable. However, I would like to stress that in the past this practice has been adopted more than once, so I would ask you to pay the utmost attention and, in cases where the Government calls for reformulation, to stop the work. My concern, which also led to my protests yesterday, was that, in view of the lack of a text under hand, explanations of vote were continuing. Mr President, I would also like to point out - and you will certainly have noticed this by reading the rewording given to you - that the bold parts reported as additions and modifications, 90% of which were actually confirmations, i.e. no changes. Looking at the amendment 30,200 (text 2) that has been tabled to you and comparing the two texts - I say this because probably while intervening someone said that it was small changes, referring only to bold without going into the substance, while you saw it and in fact came to that decision - it is clear that there was a total disruption of the content because four parts related to the possible delegations were removed. Many of those bold parts were actually already written in the original text. So I wanted to denounce this instrumental deception, made by those who wrote the new text of this amendment, trying to mislead the House about the fact that the changes were light and, slightly, when they were actually heavy. This is a further factor affecting the regularity of these work by the majority. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u185	Senator Crimes, I would like to point out to you that if you look at the sub-amendments allowed, you will notice that they have been admitted much more widely without strictly following the reformulation, precisely because the Presidency has realised what you have indicated. So the alert's in and I'm on alert.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u186	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u187	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u188	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking only to say that I am strongly opposed to the amendment that has just been voted on, but that I mistakenly voted in favour of it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u189	We shall now proceed to the debate on the G30,200 agenda. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I ask that I be able to put my signature on the agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u190	Mr President, the opinion is in favour, provided that the following rewording is accepted: It urges the Government to consider proposing a reduction in the number of regions by means of a special constitutional revision procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u191	Senator Ranucci, do you accept the reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u192	Yes, Mr. President. I would like to make a brief reflection on this agenda, precisely in the context of this constitutional reform and the new composition and function of the Senate. Firstly, I believe that there is a need for a simplification of the architecture of Italian regionalism, including in the number of regions, in order to reduce public expenditure and rationalise costs, avoiding the proliferation of too many decision-making centres for spending and programming. Secondly, there is the need to simplify and streamline the legislative and regulatory framework that regulates essential aspects of our country's economic life. I believe in the need for a few macro-regions, for them to become large planning and spatial planning bodies and to deal with territorial laws and act as regulators of the rights of the inhabitants, with very light budgets. The third reflection is that the process of European integration naturally poses the need to reduce regional articulation in all the countries and nations that are part of the European Union. I remind all of you that a few months ago France made this reduction by merging 22 to 12 regions and did so in a few months. No longer Regions as centers of spending, but the idea of macro-regions, which goes towards the reformist aspirations of the country and the Democratic Party. The real spending review is a reform of the transfers between the state and local authorities that leads to a reduction of their overall perimeter and public budgets. The President of the State Conference of Regions has also expressed himself in this regard. Therefore, I welcome the reformulation by thanking the Government and emphasizing a very important fact: for the first time in the parliamentary classrooms there is talk of amalgamations and reduction of the Regions. I think this is a very important act. I would once again like to thank Mr Boschi and Mr Pizzetti for having accepted this agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do you accept the reformulation, as proposed? RANUCCI (PD). Yes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u193	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u195	Sonego (PD). President. - We are discussing an agenda which is no longer that of my colleague and friend Ranucci, but whose political paternity must be traced directly back to the Commission at this point. I suggest caution: it seems to me that we are faced with a pronunciation that comes on the solemnity and importance of the Senate Chamber in a hasty manner, without proper investigation and without a real comparison with the system of the Regions. It also seems to me to be a pronunciation which, in essence, collides with the meaning and the letter of the constitutional reform text that we are going to vote on in a very broad and positive consensus framework. Turning to the benches of the government, I say that this is a politically and institutionally wrong agenda. I do not add anything else, because on a measure that has not been instructed, it is not worth spending any more. I am simply saying that I am opposed to this agenda, aware of the significance of a position to a proposal from my Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u196	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u198	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I fully agree with the arguments on the Ranucci agenda, including the rewording of the Government, and I would like to ask you to give me my signature, highlighting the following point: we are making an important constitutional change, but we are neglecting one of the strategic elements that can put Italy in a condition of greater international competition. The choice of the Regions by the founders and their implementation was certainly an important element, however, as it was realized in our country for the fragmentations, also territorial, that have been realized, the regionalist choice has been harmful, affecting the possibility of a positive result that in regionalization there could have been. Therefore, I strongly support this agenda and thank the Government for the openness it has shown at this stage.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u199	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u201	Mr Pegorer (PD). Mr President, I will not take much time from this House: I will not vote on this agenda, but I will vote against it, in full agreement with the reasons put forward by Mr Sonego. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Pegorer, we do not vote, because we have received a favourable opinion following a request for reformulation, which has been accepted. So you expressed your opposition.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u202	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u203	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u204	Mr Bruni (CoR). Mr President, the Reformist Conservatives Group makes a positive assessment of the agenda, even as has been reworded by the Government. We believe that, as Senator Ranucci said a moment ago in his speech, the reduction in public expenditure cannot but come from a reconsideration of the current regional system. There is also another question to be considered: in various interventions, we have always emphasized that all the last governments, of various political signs, have often concentrated their attention in negative, as far as the reduction of public expenditure was concerned, only on the last links of the chain: the Municipalities basically and, after the Delrio design, the Provinces. On the other hand, we believe that there is much to be done both with regard to the model of the Regions and with regard to the expenditure of the Ministries. This would therefore be a step forward, if there were any consequential behavior on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u205	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u206	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u207	TOCCI (PD). Mr President, I would like to express my full appreciation of Mr Ranucci's agenda, although I understand the views of my colleagues Mr Pegorer and Mr Sonego, who are absolutely right. We cannot take such a far-reaching and so demanding approach in the surreptitious form of an agenda, as if it were a minimal issue. [[Applause from Senator Lo Moro]] If I may say so, this should have been the true reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution: the reduction in the number of regions would have given this constitutional reform a meaning and perspective. Instead, we are reshuffling the existing Title V, without an idea, without an ambition, without a long-term strategy. As has already been said here, we come from the failure of two phases: the initial phase of regionalism and then that of federalism. Today we are without a strategy. The strategy can be set up only by providing for a smaller number of Regions, that is large Italian Regions that can determine a new cooperative policy between them and of close connection with state policies. Italy is a country that must make common strength and compact itself as a country system and this can only be done with large regions. This was the real reform to do, if we don't do it we're just reshuffling the existing one. Mr Ranucci's proposal is an excellent one and I think it must be dealt with as it deserves. I would like to say that I have tabled an amendment on this subject which we shall examine later and therefore I hope that it will be possible to have a proper debate on this subject, because it seems to me that it is indeed improvised that the government should accept the agenda without a debate. My colleagues are right that, although they may think differently from me, they have raised a very serious question about the method, noting that we cannot deal with a problem of this magnitude as if it were a particular one, one of the many things. I therefore call for an in-depth debate on this issue when considering my amendment or other proposals to be made.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u208	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u209	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u210	RUTA (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly on a very simple subject. I think that a debate of this magnitude deserves some thought. We must build the architecture of our republican state. How do we want to do this? Do we abolish the Provinces in half because constitutional reform has not yet been done and create four or five macro-regions? Maybe, you can address this issue and you can also agree very much; we need to know what is the body that makes a wide-area programming. So do we abolish the Provinces and create macro-regions, giving new competences to the Municipalities and providing for aggregations of Municipalities that reason with a single strategy? You may have different opinions about all this, but the only thing the Government cannot do is decide to access this hypothesis without a thorough, real and real discussion. Our being together must mean being able to discuss in depth the decisive strategies for Italy and its constitutional architecture. The debate cannot be done in this way, which - frankly - seems to me the worst way. I am particularly concerned that my Parent Company has not yet intervened, after the representative of the Government has has hastily expressed his support for the adoption of the agenda, giving an indication of the way forward. I think that the protection of different opinions but also of the desire to deepen the stories, things and events must belong to everyone and that someone should take charge of them.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u211	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u212	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u213	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr. President, I'm outcast. I have just heard, but also read, begging the government for constitutional reform. We are, that is, saying that an initiative of this kind is in the willingness of the Government, which - his goodness - grants or denies. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are, in fact, no longer in a parliamentary republic, but not even in an absolute premiere, as I have heard. Here we are dealing with a caliph, because we do not find such a thing in the West. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So, Mr President, not in the substance of the request, but in the pronois and succubus way, legitimate, even by formal acts, the end of a democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] AIROLA (M5S). Look in the mirror!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u214	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u215	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u216	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking on the subject we are dealing with, namely Mr Ranucci's G30,200 (text 2) agenda. I am surprised at the superficiality with which a Government proposes the rewording of an agenda in which it devotes so little space to what is a modification of institutional arbitration. It is true - as Senator Ranucci said - that France reduces the Regions from 22 to 13 (not to 12), but with an institutional arbitration completely different from what is in Italy. So, if we really want to have a debate, I don't think it should even be proposed on an agenda. I think we need a more serious initiative, an act of parliamentary initiative. But if the government wants to propose it, we also understand it, but not through an agenda. It would really take something more to deal with or have a broad debate on this issue, different from what we are doing today with constitutional reform. It is too serious a subject, because it concerns Law No 142 of 1990, which introduced metropolitan areas, it concerns a reformulation of the tasks and competences of the municipalities, the metropolitan areas and certainly of the regions, which could be reduced as a number. It is necessary, however, to introduce a French departmental system. In a nutshell - and I conclude - this is such a serious matter that, when we deal with it with an agenda at the level of constitutional reform, it seems to me to be trivializing it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u217	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u218	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u219	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, I am speaking to give the House some thought. Here we do, indeed you do the Senate of the Regions starting from the end, or at least from something that - as is evident from the debate that has emerged in this House - would instead require a deepening and a preliminary debate. This is the theme of local and local authorities, as well as the problems caused by the difficult process of integration between the existence of a central government and general legislation - on the one hand - and the legislative faculty that is left to local authorities and regions - on the other - with the local management of many resources and many central issues for the country, from employment to vocational education (which is in truly tragic conditions). All these issues, perhaps, should have been the subject of an in-depth debate, before arriving at a design that would create this fake Senate, this Senaticchio that should be representative of reality, with respect to which - we see it at the moment and we have seen it - the debate is open. We see it all the time, unfortunately, even in courtrooms. And the issues are not resolved at all. It is sad to see that once again, in the face of opportunities that the Government wanted to give itself and that it could also manage with a completely different faculty of dialogue and planning of regulatory interventions, this House has not been conducted before, with more favor and more agreement, in a debate and in a real confrontation on this issue. Once again, interest and dramatic superficiality have prevailed in addressing the real problems of the country. [[Applause from Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u220	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u221	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u222	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, I apologise, but I did not understand very well. I was probably distracted, because I was waiting for the resignation of Mayor Marino, but they are late in arriving. I would like to ask: is the majority asking that an agenda be approved that commits the majority to revise, with a new constitutional reform, the Regions, for which we are creating an ad hoc Senate, through an incredible mechanism to elect the senators, who will represent the Regions, who you claim to want to abolish in the next constitutional reform? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I know that I have been distracted by the fact that yet another institutional ballet is taking place in Rome, of which I am ashamed as a Roman and of which you should be ashamed as a majority, but this is madness! Please, Mr President, do not allow us to present an agenda that commits the Government to reject itself and a constitutional reform that has been praised as the solution to the problems of the country and which already wants to change. You're not well! [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Mauro Mario and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u223	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u224	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u225	MATTESINI (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Ranucci and the Government - and I would like to be able to subscribe to the agenda - because it raises a very coherent issue. In the meantime, a choice is officially made by the Government and all of us, who are debating in this Parliament, are taking seriously what we have been thinking about for a long time. That of macro-regions is not a new theme, but we have been facing it for a long time and it is right to officially open a path with this act that engages all of us. This is not an amendment that sets out the content of the rule, but it officially opens a path that brings out the theme of macro-regions from those discussions that are often carried out underneath and everywhere. This is done in the context of an institutional innovation process, because we are approving a radically innovative reform of the Constitution, which will modernise and give efficiency to the institutional system, within a framework that will be completed - hoping that this commitment can quickly be activated - by the innovation of public administration. The themes of the Provinces and Unions of Municipalities are rightly raised, and it is good that these themes proceed together, because the work of the institutions and the respect that is owed to them pose the need for a united path, carried out at the same time.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u226	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u227	You have the right to do so. However, I would remind you that, for your Group, Senators Taverna and Endrizzi have already spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u228	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I will be telegraphic. I appeal to the media and information agencies to report the absurdity that has been done by the majority and the government today: it's science fiction! Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The media follow us carefully and do not need your appeal. Anyway, we take note of that. AIROLA (M5S). If you didn't even comment every time, you'd do me a favor. (Senator Airola is heading towards the exit of the hemicycle.) VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Get out! Go! AIROLA (M5S). You're being ridiculous! [[Lively comments from the PD Group]] And you're pissed if I tell you! [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u229	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u230	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u231	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I understand that a debate has taken place, because we have to vote on an agenda. Is that it? Will the agenda be put to the vote? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, Senator Uras. URAS (Misto-SEL). Therefore, we have opened a debate, with explanations of vote, even if the agenda will not be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. More democracy than this! URAS (Misto-SEL). Then I make an explanation of vote on a vote that will not be there. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. These are not explanations of vote, but statements on the subject. URAS (Misto-SEL). So, Mr President, if we had voted, I would have voted against the agenda and I also want to explain why. I would have voted against, because I have the vague impression that, pretending that there is no people, that is, people in the flesh, someone thinks that they can organize the state and its territorial and political representations regardless of the people and communities, that they must be represented, and that they can make these constructions at the table, so much so that everything is digested. I would like to remind all of us that the Italian State, or rather Italy, has a hundred years or a little more of life. It has not yet achieved unity and the institutions that should represent all of them risk not representing important pieces of this country. They're in danger of not representing them! It seems to me that the destructuration in macroregions of a unitary state will end up favoring all the schissionist pushes that are also recorded. And beware that they are not pushed less strongly than those who have registered themselves as winners in other far more powerful organized states. And I am thinking, for example, of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. [[Applause from Senator Scilipoti Isgrò.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u232	Colleagues, these speeches show that as soon as the subject is extended, there is a risk that someone will take advantage of it. I have to return to agenda G30.200 (text 2), which - I remember - has received the Government's favourable opinion and will not be put to the vote. Senators have pointed out that they still want to speak on this issue. However, I will only give you one minute for these speeches. After that, the subject is closed. I therefore call on the last speakers who will speak on this subject to be telegraphic. I do not want to choke the debate on this, but after that I will declare the subject over.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u233	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u234	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u235	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, my call is indeed an invitation to move forward, all the more so since this agenda will not be voted on. It is good to reflect on this issue and we know that unfortunately, in general, little has been said about spatial planning in this reform. When it comes to this, the invitation is to do so in a non-general way, as the agenda calls for. Some regions should be merged, but for others this would certainly not make sense. We should think about it (and therefore the invitation is positive), but in a slightly more detailed and sophisticated way than the agenda calls for. So, right now, the invitation is to end and move forward. [[Applause from Senators Baptist and Bell.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u236	Thank you, Senator Palermo, also for the brevity.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u237	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u238	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u239	Zuffada (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, this is something that we will have to put on the agenda sooner or later. The method used, of suddenly introducing the issue, is certainly not among the best. Personally, however, I am in favour of this being discussed in the appropriate forums. The problem with macro-regions is that they do not have the meaning of separatism or separation, but of rationalization of the regional structure which has led to vices, defects and virtues. After a few years, it's appropriate to put a hand in it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u240	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u241	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u242	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I fully agree with what Senator Tocci said at the outset, in a very clear way. And I am also convinced, given the interest that this topic has aroused in all of us, that reducing the regions means saving a lot of money. We reduce senators to a hundred, for reasons of spending. To reduce the regions, which are an endless source of waste of money, in my opinion is the measure that would improve everything. We want to be European federalism and we are limited to Italian federalism. I believe that this is really the time for us to engage in this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u243	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u244	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u245	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, the Government has accepted the agenda for G30.200 (text 2). I do not know if a reformulation has been made, but the mechanism - I read - commits the Government to consider, before the entry into force of this law of constitutional revision, the opportunity to propose, also through a special procedure of constitutional revision, the reduction of the Regions to a number not exceeding 12... President. - I have just received the reworded text, which reads as follows: To consider the opportunity to propose, also through a special constitutional review procedure, the reduction of the Regions. But, if we are going to face a constitutional revision, in which we have foreseen a hundred senators, do we increase them? How does it work? Are you serious? Either the government has a problem with numbers, layouts, or we can't figure out what we're touching. I am increasingly afraid to enter this House, because everything changes from today to tomorrow, and it is getting worse and worse. I really hope these rooms melt so we can all go home, please. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u246	Since you're a Senator Commissioner, I hope this fear of you isn't for function.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u247	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u248	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u249	CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). Mr President, I have read the agenda, I have listened to the speeches of my colleagues from the 5 Star Movement and it seems to me that the most urgent thing for Italy is to overcome that austerity, which - done in this way - is destructive to the body of our society, and to have some healthy, good administration. If there were a little less imagination and we kept something in our Republic, it wouldn't be bad. As for the 5 Star Movement and the changes of idea, I remember that Beppe Grillo's blog, in March 2014, spoke of macroregions. [[Applause from Senator Puppato.]] For me, it is a castronery and anyone who proposes it remains so. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u250	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u251	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u252	Rossi Luciano (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, on behalf of Senator Albertini too, we would like to take the G30.200 agenda (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u253	The Presidency takes note of this. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G30.200 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 31, which corresponds to Article 30 of the text approved by the Senate, on which amendments have been tabled, which have already been tabled, and I would warn you that the list of inadmissible amendments to Article 31 has been distributed and distributed. I also inform you that, pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, requests for a secret ballot have been received. The Presidency considers that voting by secret ballot is admissible only for amendment 31.902, on page 11 of the distributed file. I call on the Government representative to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u254	I am against all the amendments, with the exception of 31.902, on which we refer to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u255	Amendment 31.2000 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 31.1c. SOLLO (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 31.1c, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 31.5c, 31.7c and 31.8c are inadmissible. Amendment 31,200 has been withdrawn. Let's move on to the file in electronic format. Amendments 31.3c, 31.4c and 31.6c are inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 31.11c, tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let's go back to the main file on page 3. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 31,201, tabled by Senator Martini, identical to amendments 31,10c, tabled by Senator Calderoli, on page 4 of the dossier in electronic format, 31,600, tabled by Senator D'Alì and other senators, and 31,900, tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 31.21c, tabled by Senator Fucksia and other Senators, up to the words "by the following: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 31.21c and amendments 31.12c to 31.20c on pages 4 and 5 of the dossier in electronic format are therefore excluded. Amendments 31.24c to 31.29c of the dossier in electronic format and 31.25c to 31.28c of the main dossier are inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 31,901 tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 31.1 to 31.601 are inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 31.33c, tabled by Senator Calderoli, on page 6 of the electronic file, identical to amendment 31.203, tabled by Senator Martini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 31.2001 to 31.2009 are inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 31.602, tabled by Senator D'Alì and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 31.2010 to 31.2020 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 31.902, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 31.902, tabled by Senator Calderoli, on which the Government refers to the Assembly. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] So it has been said, all I do is repeat it. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 31,903 is inadmissible. Amendment 31.2008 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 31,204 tabled by Senator Martini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 31.61c and 31.60c are inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 31.904, tabled by Senator Calderoli, essentially identical to amendments 31.62c, tabled by Senator Calderoli, on page 6 of the dossier in electronic format, and 31.603, tabled by Senator D'Alì and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 31.66c, tabled by Senator Fucksia and other senators, identical to amendment 31.604, tabled by Senator Piccoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 31.63c, tabled by Senator Calderoli, until the words "safety of work" are added to page 6 of the dossier in electronic format. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 31.63c and Amendments 31.65c and 31.64c are therefore not included on page 6 of the dossier in electronic format. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 31.205, tabled by Senator Martini, on page 14 of the main file, identical to amendment 31.70c, tabled by Senator Calderoli, on page 7 of the dossier in electronic format. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 31.605, tabled by Senator Piccoli and other senators, on page 14 of the main file. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 31,2021 and 31,2022 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 31.206, tabled by Senator Martini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 31.75, tabled by Senator Calderoli, on page 7 of the dossier in electronic format. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 31.76c, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators, on page 15 of the main file. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 31,2023 and 31,2024 are inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 31.606, tabled by Senator Piccoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the following amendment 31.79c, tabled by Senator Fucksia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 31,2020 to 31,85c of the main dossier and 31,84c of the dossier in electronic format are inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 31.207, tabled by Senator Martini, identical to amendments 31.86c, tabled by Senator Calderoli, on page 7 of the dossier in electronic format, and 31.607, tabled by Senator D'Alì and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 31.2027 has been withdrawn. Amendments 31.89c to 31.102c of the main dossier, 31.94c to 31.100 and 31.110c to 31.124c of the dossier in electronic format are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 31.103c. PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I'll withdraw it, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 31,905, tabled by Senator Caderoli, essentially identical to amendments 31,906, tabled by Senator Calderoli, and 31,608, tabled by Senator D'alì and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 31.107c and 31.108c are inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 31,907, tabled by Senator Calderoli, until the words "vocational training" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 31,907 and amendment 31,609 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 31,610, tabled by Senator Piccoli and other senators, up to the words 'European funds'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 31,610 and amendment 31,611 are therefore excluded. Amendments 31,612 to 31,128c are inadmissible. Amendment 31.2028 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 31,130c, tabled by Senator Calderoli, on page 9 of the electronic file, identical to amendment 31,614, tabled by Senator D'Alì and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 31,615 to 31,133c are inadmissible. The agenda for the G31,700 is to be postponed due to the absence of the proposer. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 31.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u256	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u257	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u258	ICHINO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the new division of legislative powers in the field of employment services, which Article 31 of the draft law outlines with the amendment of Article 117 of the Constitution, has been read and criticized by several parties as the result of a choice aimed at mortifying regional autonomy. As Mr Martini has already pointed out in relation to Article 116, this key to reading the provision does not correspond to the Government's intentions. In this regard, I would like to open a parenthesis for my colleagues from Movimeno 5 Stars. The government took this initiative on the Constitution because Parliament, which had reserved its initiative on this ground in the last year and a half of the last parliamentary term, failed to get a spider out of the hole in that period and the same thing was repeated in the first year of this legislature. This is why, in the face of the serious danger of a functional blockade of the country, the Government has assumed this responsibility and in this there is nothing contrary to the institutional duties; indeed, it was the duty of the Government and fortunately it is managing to unblock the country with this reform. In my opinion, the key to reading this article in the sense of mortification of regional self-government is contrary to the Government's intentions, because it is clear to everyone how illusory it would be to pursue the efficiency and effectiveness of labour market services simply by centralising them. It is true that in the past forty years, in which the Regions exercised legislative and administrative power in the field of vocational training, and in the fifteen years in which they exercised the same power in reference to the generality of labour market services, if few cases are excluded - I am thinking above all of those of Trentino-Alto Adige, of Lombardy, and in the last two years of the Lazio Region - the results produced by regional autonomy have actually been seriously unsatisfactory and, this time, disastrous. But the distinction between good and bad employment services doesn't go between centrally managed and decentralisedly managed ones. Three shortcomings are certain. First of all, there has been a lack of a school and professional guidance service worthy of this name, that is, capable of reaching one by one all the teenagers at the exit of any school cycle in order to outline their skills, aspirations and indicate to them the possible paths in the labour market towards the services available in it. The result of this total lack, of this failure of the public service on this ground, is in the eyes of all in terms of youth unemployment above 40%. Secondly, there has been a complete lack of systematic recognition of the rate of consistency of vocational training provided with public money in relation to actual employment opportunities, with the result that, on the ground of training, there has been a continuation of pure income positions or, in any case, initiatives useful only to service workers, but not to workers and businesses. The waste of public money, on this ground, but even more so the waste of human resources that in this way has been determined, has been and still is enormous. Thirdly, employment centres are in a state of total abandonment: they have been deprived of a direction since the provincial councils were abolished, except for a few exceptions, but have not yet been incorporated into regional administrations; and, moreover, the minimum resources necessary for their operation are lacking. They don't even have money for paper, toner, and repairing computer equipment. Apart from a few regions which have begun to take the first steps towards cooperation and integration between the public service and specialized private operators, placement services have little more than zero levels of effectiveness throughout the rest of the national territory. Faced with this state of affairs, that is, in a situation that we can well qualify as "zero year" for labour market services in most regions, it is clear that there has been a lack of a system of setting standards for the effectiveness of services, of monitoring compliance with these standards and of activating the necessary remedies in cases where control has failed. With regard to this state of affairs, the constitutional arrangement in our examination intends to move on. The new Article 117 of the Constitution reassigns, yes, to the central state the legislative competence on all matters of work, of the encounter between supply and demand, as well as of the services aimed at facilitating this meeting; but it does not do so with the intention of refocusing in an obtuse way the operational competences in this matter, but with that of ensuring that the competences themselves are exercised to the full only by the administration is central or regional, that actually those competences possess and want to exercise. The project, which is expressed in a transparent way in the sixth paragraph of the new article, and which is in some way anticipated in Legislative Decree no. 150 of 2015, implementing the labour reform, provides that the regions concerned will continue to be entrusted, by delegation, with administrative competences and implementation of active labour policies, but only if and until they know how to exercise those competences effectively. We all know that in this field, much more than the legislative norm, know-how, know-how in the field, and the ability to deal with the most advanced foreign experiences, are important. In the new constitutional framework, however, it is desirable that state law should be limited to establishing the basic principles, guidelines and central body responsible for setting the objectives and essential levels of services, setting up the autonomous agencies responsible for evaluating results, regulating the responsibility of the managers for achieving the results and finally providing for the ways in which the central administration will revoke the delegation to the regions which will prove incapable of achieving the objectives. It remains to be questioned, if anything, why it was considered, in paragraph 3 of the new Article 117, to exclude the subject of vocational training from this power of the State to invoke to itself the function that the defaulting Region is not able to carry out in an appropriate manner. This creates the conditions for a reproduction of the division between the function of vocational training and that of placement, which has done so much damage to the effectiveness of both the one and the other function in our labour market. To conclude, critical attention must not be drawn so much to the new constitutional division of legislative competences, in the field of services in the labour market, as to the pilot experiments already meritoriously undertaken by some regions on the reorganisation measures that have already been adopted by legislative decree no. 150 of this year, but not yet implemented, and on those that still have to be taken to overcome the very serious delay that the public administration has accumulated in this area compared to the most advanced countries of central and northern Europe. It is with these intentions that the PD Group will vote in favour of Article 31 of the Constitutional Bill. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u259	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u260	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u261	Mr Bruni (CoR). Mr President, we shall vote against Article 31, as it was approved, both at first and at second reading, both in the passage to the Senate and in the passage to the Chamber, convinced that this was an opportunity to get to what had been called the right dimension, the optimum size that had to be given with regard to the role of the Regions. In the draft law as it is, however, in the current version of Article 31, this clear line of division with regard to the legislative function between the State and the Regions is missing. For example, it was thought that we could get to the abolition of competing legislation in a clear way, that was the objective of the draft law, but I must say that so far there is no trace of it, so it cannot be said that it has been achieved. We had to solve such a difficult and complicated situation; I say only one, just to give an idea of how difficult it was to get between the two legislative functions: the home plan of the Berlusconi Government has been implemented years later by the Regions, precisely because of the uncertainties regarding their tasks and powers in this matter from the legislative point of view. What consequence do we have instead? Two competing legislation are born, one of which will have even eight competing sub-laws. This is the perverse effect that comes out of the current version of Article 31. The easiest example is that of landscape legislation, where protection and valorisation will be entrusted by the State, while promotion to the Regions. This is a very sensitive and delicate matter: I think of the use that is made of the decree unlocks Italy for some time to this part, precisely in the matter of landscape, on large entrepreneurial initiatives and infrastructures achieved and programmed by the State, but which is then used in other fields and more trivial subjects, where however the interest in the protection of the landscape is squeezed out constitutionally guaranteed in Part I of the Constitution. What will emerge from this? A great effort - yet another - that will fall on the Constitutional Court to try to redefine the areas assigned respectively to the State and the Regions. The last reason that will lead us to say no to Article 31 is the use of the so-called supremacy clause (as defined in Article 31) provided for by the novel article 117, paragraph 4, of the Constitution. Here again we could say that there is a clear contrast to the provision of Article 70 and that the so-called 2003 Midnight Constitutional Court judgment has not been properly taken into account. What can be said? A long and detailed list of state matters will certainly not solve the problem of competing legislation. Perhaps the residuality clause should have been reversed, reaching the reverse case, i.e. having it operated in favour of the State. With the planned system, however, we will only have a massive increase in state competences and the issue of concurrent legislation, which is the real problem of Article 117, is not addressed and resolved as proposed at the beginning of the process of examining the draft law. For these reasons, the Conservative and Reformist Group will vote against Article 31. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u262	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u263	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u264	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to announce my Group's vote against because the proposals that we have made unnecessarily to bring the text back to the original text approved at first reading by the Senate have not been taken into account by the Government, nor by the majority. This does not allow us to vote in favour of Article 31. I take the floor to say, on a personal basis only, that at both the first and second readings I have tabled a number of amendments concerning the subject covered by Senator Ranucci's agenda, which I signed immediately. Members, who of course do not have the amiability, or perhaps the time to examine all the amendments that are tabled to the draft law, could therefore have realised how the subject has been proposed and submitted in all the various forms (Senator Ranucci himself filed his own bill). It is therefore not a question of novelty, nor of lightning in the skies, but of a subject which has been debated, although not yet in regulatory terms, for a long time. I believe, therefore, that the attitude taken by the government was right (but this is my absolutely personal note). In conclusion, I repeat that the vote of the Forza Italia Group will be against Article 31.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u265	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u266	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u267	SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, the People's Area Group (NCD-UDC) will vote with particular conviction on Article 31, which amends Article 117 of the Constitutional Charter. I was just talking about the crooked tree of our federalism as it was determined on the basis of irresponsible logic. We bring the State back to unity because to a nation can only correspond a State and we are among those who are convinced that the nation has been formed well before the State and that that nation has been and is one because it is based on the shared principles of national tradition. We are talking about a State in which, as is clear from Article 31, defined the exclusive competences of State and Regions, the Government is given the possibility to intervene in matters not reserved for exclusive legislation when it is required to protect the legal or economic unity of the Republic, or the protection of the national interest. Here, therefore, the primacy of national interest is affirmed, the possibility of intervening also in matters of exclusive competence of the Regions, when it is at stake the cohesion of the nation, the legal or economic unity of it. As we know, there are many circumstances in which a surrogate intervention by the State would make sense today to replace inefficient or unfulfilled regions, especially guilty of not guaranteeing equal dignity to all citizens of the Republic. Moreover, this Article 31 must be read in conjunction with what I hope we will then approve by amending Article 119 of the Constitution. On our initiative, Parliament, indeed this Senate itself, a year ago, introduced so-called standard costs and requirements into the Constitutional Charter, i.e. objective indicators that can also establish the algorithm whereby a local or regional administration should be commissary, because a condition of structural imbalance has been established in it. I had the opportunity to play the role of Minister of Health, leading almost all regions of the Centre-South to the Commissariat. However, I remember, of that experience, the difficult negotiation with the Presidents of the Regions themselves, who had to be appointed commissioners themselves to have the consent, giving rise to extraordinary managements, because supported by return plans financed with additional resources. This will no longer happen on the basis of the new Charter, because it will allow the State unilateral decisions of commissioning, so that the federalism that will come will place itself within the unitary state, but also with characteristics of variable geometry, because not all regions are equal. There will be regions that will see their competences faded to the point of losing them in the commissionerial management, which can be replaced only when they fall into the condition of structural equilibrium, and other regions that, according to the article that we have just approved, will be able to increase their competences because of their efficiency. We are therefore not in the presence of equal experiences. The equality that interests us is that of citizens, who must have equal dignity - as I said - i.e. equal access to services of public utility and that this can only be guaranteed to them if it is the unitary State that guarantees this homogeneity, with the powers that we confer on it. The forty-five-year experience no longer allows us to talk about young bureaucracies or inexperienced local political classes. On the contrary, we have often seen far too much experience in realizing evil; but we have met little in order to achieve good in the regional dimension and in the local dimension. I hope that also the Government, when it realizes an important law of stability, with the three-year projection useful to cover the time that theoretically separates us from the end of the legislature, wants to use standard costs and standard requirements, with the consequent deterrent of the commissioner, in order to carry out an operation of revisiting of the expenditure that is not realized again with linear cuts, but that, on different conditions, it decides different measures. In this way the substantial equality of the nation is achieved. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u268	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u269	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u270	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I speak quickly because many of the issues relating to Article 31 of the draft law in our examination, even after the changes made by the House of Deputies, have been the subject of many of our speeches. Therefore, I am speaking to announce our vote firmly against Article 31. The reason is clear and clear to everyone from the debate we have had and from the content that has been expressed here: this is a reasoning that I would like to propose once again to the attention of my fellow Members. We have returned to the division of powers referred to in Article 117 of the Constitution, after the reform of Title V, without a real review of the experience of these years. The great novelty seemed to be the elimination of competing legislation but, in reality, with the reformulation of Article 117 of the Constitution we will be faced with a new season of conflict and appeals to the Constitutional Court. If we go to read all the contents and formulations that are used, in fact, in the division of competences between State and Region, we find here, in nuce, once again, the seat of conflict. All this great novelty, aimed at finally making clarity, in our opinion simply hides an absolutely neo-centralist reorganization. All this is paradoxical, at the very moment when you claim to want to create a Senate, which should represent the territorial authorities. I believe that this is the most striking and obvious contradiction. This article lacks clarity in the allocation of competences between the State and the Regions, because it eliminates the competing power, but, in reality, with the indications that are used, a new chapter of conflict will open. However, the real centralist design was to appropriate some fundamental issues, such as energy. We understand the plan: the Renzi Government has decided to take a very old road, from this point of view and, for example, in the strategic energy sector, which concerns and has a very strong impact on the destinies of local and regional communities, completely excludes the Regions. I brought this example, but I could make it different. This also applies to a great many other areas, but it is clear to everyone, with this article and with the amendments approved by the House of Deputies, that a neo-centralist approach is being taken. It should have been said clearly, perhaps we should have had a debate to take stock of federalism, to choose and perhaps decide, after this budget, which way to go for our territory. Instead, as always, we have chosen to do a surreptitious operation, but absolutely obvious. That is why we shall vote against Article 21. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u271	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u272	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u273	MINEO (PD). Mr President, I would like to say to this House that most theorists do not consider it possible for self-nomism to function properly without competing legislation. The logic, the ratio, of autonomy is precisely to be able to make a contribution in the matter of law on the broader topics and competence of the regional institutions to national legislation. If this regionalism of ours first, and then even federalism, did not work, it is not the fault of competing legislation. Senator Sacconi, you were socialist then and you should remember how the Regions were born in this country in 1970. They were born as centers of expenditure, on the model of the Sicilian Region that some of us, already then, considered a factory of the mafia and not as delegation and renunciation of some roles by the central state in favor of the autonomy. They were not born with a real autonomous drive, but with the contentment of being able to spend, regions that spent and could have had very little impact. That is the reason for the problem. That's what Senator De Petris said and I won't say it again, because you're all tired, and I understand that. But the problem of litigation arising from this amendment to Article 117 will be even more serious than it was when there was concurrent legislation. Everyone says that, and everybody knows it. In addition, I would like to point out that these regions, humiliated and frustrated because, in reality, the reform is neo-centralist, and content with this honour of bringing sixty-seven regional councillors to the Senate, will be even more centers of spending and mischief. Therefore, Article 31 cannot be voted on. I conclude by saying that when you do not have clear ideas, it is good not to touch the Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed-AEcT Groups]] What happened just now, ladies and gentlemen, is without equal! But how, after such a presumptuous reform, such as what we are doing, does the government say yes to an agenda that proposes a new reform, the principles of which are different from the current one? Dear Senator Endrizzi, and dear colleagues, it was the Government that presented the bill for constitutional reform, and not us! But if the government had presented from the beginning a draft law that saw the regions reduce, concentrate autonomy in a series of macro-regions and then proposed the Bunsderat model, many of us would have voted it: you can realize a Senate of the regions, if it is a serious proposal. If it has to be a joke to increase the arbitrariness of the central government, I say no! [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-AEcT groups and the Mandelli and Rizzotti senators.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u274	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 31, corresponding to Article 30 of the text approved by the Senate. I call on the senators to reach their seats in order to vote and not to give delegations. I wait before I close the vote but I do not allow myself to vote for others and to have others vote in their place. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u275	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u276	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u277	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, since the lists of inadmissibility and the dossiers in Articles 33, 35, 37 and 39 are being distributed, and since we are in the process of arriving and the amendments are now in quite small numbers, I would ask you to allow us a reasonable time, at least one hour, to assess these inadmissibilitys. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I leave to the President's assessment the request for a technical suspension in order to be able to assess the amendments, the dossiers, the inadmissible ones, that is half an hour, forty, forty-five minutes, President; that it is not ten minutes fake because it is five articles, the final ones, which are important. We have only a few amendments left; we are now ahead of us, because you had scheduled the vote for Tuesday, and we still have the whole day tomorrow and Saturday morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u278	Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u279	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u280	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u281	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like information. I saw that all the papers were deposited with the inadmissibility. I think - perhaps I am wrong, though - that there are inadmissibilitys in Article 33, 35, 37, 38. Didn't I see those at 39? I wanted confirmation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I got it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u282	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u283	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u284	TONINI (PD). Mr President, I would like to make a counter-proposal. If colleagues agree, we could move on to Rule 37 and stop there to resume tomorrow. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Since Senator Crimi's request is to examine the inadmissible amendments...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u285	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u286	Make a reasonable proposal, Senator Calderoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u287	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). President, by not participating in the proceedings, I can only make a suggestion from the outside. I think it's acceptable to both propose a 30-minute suspension by Senator Crimi and Senator Tonini, but, President, I need to ask you for a commitment right now. If there were to be rewordings or new amendments - in that case it seems to me mandatory by the Government - on Article 39, you behave in a manner similar to what you did last night: we have the opportunity to subemend them, because everything is possible; but using on the last article a trick is really a lestophant thing. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u288	I am sorry that you have been able to have some doubts about the fact that I am acting differently; that is what I am sorry about. I'm gonna suspend the session for half an hour. (The sitting was suspended at 18.13 a.m. and resumed at 18.49 a.m.) The session is resumed. We proceed to the examination of Article 33, corresponding to Article 32 of the text approved by the Senate, on which amendments have been tabled, already outlined, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u289	The Government's opinion is against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u290	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 33.1c. SOLLO (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u291	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u292	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u293	[[Comments from the PD Group]] We're also giving the opportunity to go back to so many senators who are out. MARTON (M5S). Mr President, it took us two and a half years but I find it pleasantly that in the end it is the majority calling for electronic voting. That's great. [[Laughter and applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u294	The tough guy wins it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u295	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 33.1c, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u296	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u297	I shall cancel the voting procedure. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u298	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). You're from the majority of Uras! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Quiet! BULGARRELLI (M5S). You can't say majority. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). You can say he's helping them, can't you? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ciampolillo, you just can't say. You're welcome, Senator Uras. URAS (Misto-SEL). Have I gone to the majority? I didn't notice. [[Laughter of the President]] because you, Mr President, have declared me inadmissible all the amendments, those I signed are signed by other senators who withdraw them so I cannot even discuss them. I understand that there has been a great deal of confusion and, strangely, the confusion has affected the amendments which have a content relating to the rights of Sardinia and Sardinians. I have the impression that, once again, ethnic-territorial discrimination is taking place here, which I do not think I can tolerate. I might as well delete Rule 119, because there are elements on which we cannot discuss and I would like to understand the reason for that. For example, why can we not discuss the costs of protecting the Sardinian language and culture? Why can we not discuss the costs of territorial continuity, since this is an article dealing with this topic? I wish I could understand. Personally, since I've been in this Senate of the Republic, I've been fighting to finally recognize that Sardinia is an island. What it takes to recognize that Sardinia is an island! [[Applause from Senator Gentile]] We have to take the planes, the ships to get home. Not us senators, but we Sardinian migrants whose number is equal to the population of residents. It is an island, there is a state, there is a condition there are legal rules that protect that condition. There are necessarily financial equalization resources to be activated. I have done so on the basis of European Union rules and participation in the costs of European finance. I did it under other circumstances. I do so here too: the question is always inadmissible, always. Even now, there are the amendments that deal with this subject and have all the signatures except mine: I wrote them, I introduced them and they do not have my signature. GENTILE (AP (NCD-UDC)). You're a magician! URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I am thinking very much about the opportunity to remain in the Senate of the Republic. Frankly, I am here representing a community: my main identity is to be Sardinian, it is not to be an opponent of the Government, it is not to be an exponent of SEL, it is not to be a political leader, but to be belonging to a people, to a community that has the right to be represented in its needs. What am I gonna do? If we have no right to representation, it is better that you do nothing here: I resign, vote on them, I leave.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u299	By application of 30 September, Senator Uras had asked for the signature to be signed, and this was the case: it was the premise, as he requested, of amendments 33.2002 and 33.2003, as shown by the annex. After that, the assessment of the content, in relation to the changes made, was the subject of a declaration of inadmissibility. This, therefore, is on the subject, without ignoring the island needs, which also concern the land of origin of the President. I would once again urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure, previously made by Senator Sollo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 33.1c, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). SOLLO (PD). Malan, it went wrong! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendments 33.6c to 33.2000 are inadmissible. In view of the absence of the proposer, Amendment 33.19c, on page 2 of the dossier in electronic format, has lapsed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 33.600.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u300	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u301	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u302	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the amendment seeks to restore the text that had dismissed the Senate. That's all I'm saying: instead of writing with the law of the state, as the House wanted to do, the amendment says ... on the basis of the parameters and so on. Now, looking carefully at the wording of Article 70, as already approved - alas - this law of the State, which establishes the resources that go to the Municipalities, the metropolitan cities and the Regions, that is, the very heart of the relationship between the State and the territorial authorities, is not bicameral, as it is substantially approved by the House. I wonder what this future Senate will do (presumably territorial autonomy, but it will actually be a Senate of Regional Councils, which are a bit different) if it cannot be dealt with precisely this law: in the most substance and also in reality, we see well the major problems of coordination between the State and the Regions, with the President of the State-Regions Conference which is of the Democratic Party and with the President of the ANCI which is of the Democratic Party, who complain about the local finance decisions taken by the Government hegemonized by the Democratic Party. Stop saying that.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u303	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 33.600, tabled by Senator D'Alì and other senators, on page 4 of the main file. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the absence of the proposer, amendments 33.18c, 33.900, 33.22c, 33.901 and 33.23c have fallen. Amendment 33.902 is inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 33.5023c, tabled by Senator Taverna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 33.601, tabled by Senator D'Alì and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the absence of the proposer, amendment 33.5024c has lapsed. Amendments 33.200, 33.201, 33.2005 and 33.2006 have been withdrawn. Amendments 33.2002 to 33.2004 and 33.2007 to 33.5037c are inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 33, corresponding to Article 32 of the text approved by the Senate. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Rule 34, corresponding to Article 33 of the text approved by the Senate, has not been amended by the Chamber of Deputies. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 35, which corresponds to Article 34 of the text approved by the Senate, on which amendments have been tabled, which have already been tabled. I note that the list of inadmissible amendments to this article is being distributed and that certain requests for a secret ballot have been received pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure. The Presidency considers that voting by secret ballot is acceptable only for amendment 35.901, tabled by Senator Calderoli.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u304	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u305	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u306	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I support Amendment 35.901.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u307	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 35.1c, on which the Government has expressed its opposition. SOLLO (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 35.1c, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but the Government representative must comment on the amendments. I reported an opinion contrary to the Government that was not actually given. I replaced myself unworthyly with the government. I have the annulment of the vote that has just been taken. I call on the Government representative to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u308	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments to Rule 35, with the exception of Amendment 35,901, on which the Government refers to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u309	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 35.1c, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 35.700 to 35.600 are inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 35.601, tabled by Senator D'Alì and other senators, up to the words "second period." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 35.601 and Amendment 35.602 are therefore excluded. In view of the absence of the proposer, amendments 35.4c and 35.900 have lapsed. Amendment 35,800 is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 35.901, on which a request for a secret ballot was made by the requested number of senators. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of Amendment 35,901 tabled by Senators Calderoli and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the absence of the proposer, Amendment 35.902 has fallen. Amendments 35.1, 35.2, 35.3, 35.1000, 35.1001 and 35.4 are inadmissible. Amendments 35.2000, 35.2001 and 35.2002 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 35.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u310	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u311	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u312	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, we shall vote in favour of this article. We shall therefore vote against a rule which makes all our doubts remain, also in relation to the quality of the text's writing. In particular, there is an obligation to focus on the formula that accompanies the article itself in conclusion, where it is argued that ordinary law will promote the balance between the elected men and the elected women. Frankly, we have another idea of political representation, so, regardless of sex, race and social belonging, it is thought that everyone is able to be worthyly representatives of others, provided that one is honest; and already this is a first note of distinction with respect to other political forces. We also believe that the quality of the legislative act must be an absolutely unavoidable commitment, so to reason for the future exactly with this formula (the Republic's law also lays down the fundamental principles to promote the balance between women and men in representation) reminds us a little bit of the hope of Monicelli, that utopia, in an absolutely negative and unrealistic sense, with which they were trapped naive people, proposing to them, through seductive arguments, to give confidence to their vexators. Know that from this point of view too, citizens are opening their eyes. There is a need to make the laws simple and understandable; by continuing to propose them in a smoky and interpretable way, perhaps from a Presidency or from a magistrate who can flex the words according to the reason of State or the reason of the House, you will continue to agree more and more to the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u313	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 35, corresponding to Article 34 of the text approved by the Senate. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Rule 36, corresponding to Article 35 of the text approved by the Senate, has not been amended by the Chamber of Deputies. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 37, which corresponds to Article 36 of the text approved by the Senate, on which amendments have been tabled, which have already been tabled. The list of inadmissible amendments to this Article has already been distributed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u314	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u315	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u316	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for clarification: is Amendment 37,200, first signed by Senator Finocchiaro, admissible? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, it is acceptable and if approved, precludes.... CRIME (M5S). So it is also acceptable in its second part, from the words: The following shall be added after paragraph 9 as a result of Article 39: It provides for an amendment to Article 39, introduced accordingly to the approval of Article 37, thus introducing a new paragraph in Article 39. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is unacceptable, this part.... CRIME (M5S). That is why I asked why it is not in the file: otherwise this would have opened up the possibility of amending Article 39, on which it has not yet expressed itself. I just wanted this confirmation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, Senator Crimes: I have just checked that paragraph 9 of Article 39, relating to this part of the amendment, from -- accordingly -- has been amended. CRIMI (M5S). Allow me, Mr President, if it were an amendment to paragraph 9 of Article 39, I might consider your remark to be legitimate, perfect and impeccable, but here there is the addition of a paragraph 9-a, which has nothing to do with the amendment of paragraph 9. All the second parts of the amendments were declared inadmissible in which it was said that, as a result of the adoption of an amendment to an article, another article would be amended, in particular those which were to add paragraphs. I can assure you that we could dust off all the amendments, one by one, and at that point we should start voting again on all those who have declared inadmissible, in a way that is not consistent with what has been done with the amendment in question. However, if it says that this is possible, it is.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u317	Senator Crimes, this is only possible because paragraph 9 of Rule 39, has been deleted by the Chamber of Deputies and therefore the amendment, adding a new paragraph, reinstates the rule that the Senate had passed. That's the motivation. Therefore, the amendment re-introduces paragraph 9, deleted by the House of Deputies. Therefore, the part of the amendment in question, which begins with the words 'in consequence', has its validity, because it adds a paragraph which had been deleted by the House of Deputies. CRIMI (M5S). Compared to other decisions taken on similar cases... You're right, Senator Crimes, it's not easy. CRIMI (M5S). I am not saying that it is not legitimate, but I would like to point out that in many other cases, not only when examining this law, but also in other situations, similar amendments have been declared inadmissible. Mine was just a notation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I'm sorry to contradict you, but let's stick to our opinions. In the cases referred to by you, the resulting part (s) was not modified. CRIMI (M5S). I'll go check it out. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Go check it out, and if you bring us some examples, we'll be happy to meet them. [[Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u318	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u319	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u320	ENDRIZZI (M5S). This is a logical problem and political will: if the principle of double compliance is based on the fact that the Chambers have expressed themselves in two steps in the same way, this principle must be applied from the substantive point of view, regardless of the form an amendment takes, because it is the will of the legislator that is abandoned and of which respect is imposed, regardless of the form of the amendment. If the substantive request for action on Article 39 is admissible, it should have been allowed before. I repeat, in fact, that it is the will of the legislator on which the principle of Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure is based.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u321	Senator Endrizzi, I repeat that there is a paragraph deleted. And since the paragraph has been deleted, an amendment has been made. The addition of an deleted paragraph is allowed by the principle of double compliance: meanwhile, from a formal point of view and then, also from a substantial point of view. However, we are opening a debate - as it were - on Amendment No 37.200, before we even began the examination of Rule 37. I invite the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments tabled in Article 37.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u322	Mr President, I am opposed to all the amendments, with the exception of Amendment No 37,200, first signed by Senator Finocchiaro and Senators Schifani, Zeller and Zanda, for whom the opinion is in favour. Moreover, this amendment incorporates the spirit of other amendments, both by majority and by opposition.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u323	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u324	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u325	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I must stress yet another contradiction and inconsistency in the views expressed by the Government. To Amendment 37,600, in accordance with the fact that until recently, government and majority have defended the gender quota in all the laws of the State, I have allowed myself to suggest it also with regard to the Constitutional Court. We do not understand why, especially from the broad assembly of my colleagues, there has always been a call for a gender quota, even on the boards of directors of companies, and now we do not want to welcome it in the framework of the Constitutional Court. What is the scientiae decline for which colleagues believe that the gender quota cannot be introduced into the Constitutional Court after having defended it a moment ago in all other laws of the State? This is a question to which I would like to receive an answer, especially from my colleagues, although I understand that the Government is not oriented to giving this kind of rational response. If I'm allowed to decompress with a joke, I'm asking for that kind of defense here. A tomorrow - I think soon - this could also be the defence of this kind that I represent at this moment, President Finocchiaro. I really ask colleagues, therefore, why not include the gender quota in the Constitutional Court as well? What's so special about the Constitutional Court over all the other magistrates in the state?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u326	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 37.1c, which is identical to Amendments Nos 37,800 and 37,2c. SOLLO (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 37.1c, tabled by Senator Bignami and other Senators, identical to Amendments 37,800, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other Senators, and 37.2c, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 37.200.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u327	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u328	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u329	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am voting against this amendment, which provides that the fifteen judges of the Constitutional Court, for only one fifth, are elected by people voted by the citizens. Five are appointed by the President of the Republic, which is largely indirect voting; one third by the supreme magistrates, ordinary and administrative, elected by no one (reputable contest winners); three by the Chamber of Deputies and two by the Senate of the Republic, elected in an extremely indirect way. So, to those who asked me what it is today, I answer a third, and there are still few, and we know well how this has repercussions in the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court that is so strongly politicized, but of an extremely mediated policy to which citizens do not arrive. So there are two flaws: it is politicized and completely far from the expression of the citizens. [[Applause from Senator Marin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u330	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u331	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u332	Mr Quegliariello (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, Mr Boschi had the amiability to point out that this amendment takes up, at least in spirit, others that had been tabled, including one from our Group. I believe that this is an important change and also an important improvement that this reform receives in this passage to the Senate. The Constitutional Court is a bit of a rocky guest in this second part of the reform. We are strongly modifying Title V and we are strongly modifying a mechanism for which the previous Title V had created a large grey area, where the concurrent competence of the State and the Regions, i.e. the legislators, did not find a precise boundary. This was the reason why - I must also say fortunately - most of the disputes between the State and the Regions, caused by both the State and the Regions, were resolved, after the praise of the late Professor Baldassarre, precisely, by the Constitutional Court. So we went ahead and managed to regulate this mechanism. Obviously this is a very unmediatic issue, but I think it is one of the most important that this reform has addressed: to be able to diminish, as far as possible, the competing matter and therefore resolve at the root at least part of that litigation that has been cause not only of quarrel between legislators, but also of loss of overall competitiveness of our country. Evidently, within this framework, the fact that members appointed by the Senate are also present at the Court and that, therefore, they come indirectly from those regional legislators who have been involved, I believe it is not only a reason for institutional balance, but also one of the points from which you can start looking for a new configuration and a new identity to that regional body that does not deserve to remain long in this situation of limbo in which it is found today. I therefore think - and I have no difficulty in saying this - that it was a wrong assessment, almost an abuse, by the House, to prevent the Senate from having its own representatives. I believe that having restored the initial text that had come out of this House is one of the reasons for the positive, active matches of this transition to reform. That is why my Group will strongly support this amendment. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD]] Mr President, a little slip, it happens to everyone. The sentence was signed by the late Professor Midnight, so I apologize to Professor Baldassarre who, thanks to heaven, is among us and to whom in this way I also extended my life. [[Laughter. Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u333	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u334	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u335	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Mr President, amendment 37,200, like the other amendments that I tabled together with the majority group leaders and my colleague, Mr D'Adda, to Articles 1 and 2, is a summary of a thought that has matured during the first reading of the Senate of the Constitutional Reform text, both in the Commission and in this House. That's what Senator Quagliariello said a moment ago. I would also like to point out that the amendments tabled and which we are considering also include the signature of authoritative representatives of the opposition groups. I am referring to Senator Paolo Romani's amendment, to Senator Uras' amendment, to Senator Orellana's amendment and to Senator D'Alì's second amendment. What were the reasons why the Senate, both in the Commission text and in the House text, had - I would say almost unanimously - given the new Senate the opportunity to appoint the two judges of the Constitutional Court? The first reason was in the disproportion between the number of members in the House and the number of members in the Senate, which would make the Senate's contribution to the expression of the judges of the Court almost irrelevant. But there was another reason, which Mr Quagliariello mentioned a moment ago, namely that the Constitutional Court has in recent years carried out a very delicate and valuable task in defining a series of constitutional issues that concerned the relationship between the State and the Regions and, more generally, the matters referred to in Title V of the Constitution. For this reason, I believe that this amendment restores a positive and fully consistent choice with the nature of the Senate representative of the territorial institutions, wanted both by the House and the Senate, and I recommend its approval and attention by colleagues. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u336	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u337	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u338	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, in some way, in the debate and in the speeches we are discussing in general in the Commission (because, as you know, we have not been able to discuss the amendments), this issue has also been raised by our Group in relation to the changes made by the House. Although we, as is well known, did not agree at all with the general structure of this reform (in particular, the way in which the Senate is transformed), we thought it even more incredible that, in the end, in the composition of the Constitutional Court, there was no expression on the part of the Senate. I do not say a direct expression, because this could open who knows what scenarios and I do not believe that we can draw a Constitutional Court in which there are two judges (like a section) expression of the Regions. However, it is clear that, precisely for the election of judges to Parliament, having removed from the text that reservation (i.e. two judges appointed by the Senate), as the House did, meant that there would be no possibility of expression on the part of the Senate itself. Our position will seem incredible to you, and this is proof that, if we really wanted to have a debate on the subject, perhaps we could have and really wanted to make a serious argument from the point of view of the balance of this reform and perhaps we could have done a better job. Therefore, for this reason, precisely because it is one of the issues that we have pointed out, even if it seems strange to many, we will vote in favour of Amendment No 37.200.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u339	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u340	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u341	Orellana (Mist). Mr President, I would like to ask you to add my signature to Amendment No 37,200, in view of what Senator Finocchiaro said, because my amendment proposal was the same. [[Notes of assent by Senator Finocchiaro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u342	We take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u343	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u344	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u345	CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). Mr President, I would like to point out that the adoption of amendment 37,200 certainly corrects a twist, as Mr Finocchiaro and Senator De Petris have already said, because it gives the Senate the opportunity to express two members, but it does not change the overall substance of the reasoning, which relates to the function of guarantee that our legal system entrusts to the Constitutional Court and to the extraneousness of its members to the political debate. Mr Malan said that they are not an expression of the will of the people because they have another function. However, I would like to remind everyone that one third of the members will be appointed by the President of the Republic, as is already the case, but the President of the Republic will be elected in the manner we spoke about yesterday. What do I want to invite you to analyze? We have an improvement, but it's like we're rebooting a dead person's hair. As far as the guarantee function is concerned, with regard to the composition of the Court as a whole, even with a somewhat modified representation from the fact that the members are not all elected by the House, it does not make the Court above the parties, above the balances established by the elections of the next legislatures, if this reform is approved, and it is not that we have therefore solved the problem. As it was used to say for some time, we combed the dolls, we put a veil on something that basically remains the same. It is for this reason that, while we recognise the considerations of Mr De Petris, we in the other Europe with Tsipras will abstain from voting, given that this amendment, as I said before, is certainly an improvement on the text of the House, but it is an anode improvement.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u346	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u347	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u348	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I believe that both the reasons, those of Senator Quagliariello and those of the presenter of the amendment, are to be shared. In fact, there is always the problem of the lack of legitimacy of those who will be part of the Senate; however, even with those defects of legitimacy, the two reasons that have been indicated, namely the expression of territorial institutions and the understanding of those problems and essentially, as said also by Senator Finocchiaro, of balance, which instead was not with respect to the President of the Republic, are to be shared. Look, I am as convinced as you are that Article 2 is wrong, but at a time when we have to try to secure guarantees, if we lose the referendum, we must at least ensure that the Constitutional Court is able to ensure equal rights and therefore equal and impartial judgement on the legitimacy of laws.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u349	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u350	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u351	ZIZA (CoR). Mr President, I wanted to inform the House that Mayor Marino resigned. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Zizza, look, we're all equipped by now, so we already knew.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u352	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u353	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u354	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I would like to add my signature and that of Senator Bencini, as members of the Mixed Italy Group of values, to this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u355	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 37,200, tabled by Senator Finocchiaro and other senators, entirely replacing Article 37. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD Group]] The subsequent amendments up to 37,601 are therefore foreclosed or absorbed. Amendment 37.0.1 is inadmissible. He asked the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u356	Mr President, the Government is tabling an amendment to Rule 39. I have read the amendment that will be tabled to the Presidency: 'In Article 39 (10), add the following period at the end of the debate: Even for the purposes referred to in this paragraph, the term referred to in Article 39, paragraph 6, shall begin from the date of entry into force of this Constitutional Law. Within ninety days of the date of entry into force of the law referred to in Article 57, paragraph six, as amended by this Constitutional Law, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano comply with their respective laws and regulations as established therein. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u357	The Presidency declares the amendments to Rule 39 inadmissible, which insist on paragraphs which have not been amended by the House of Deputies. The amendment submitted by the Government refers to a modified paragraph during the examination of the measure at the other branch of the Parliament and is therefore admissible. The Presidency shall give one hour for the submission of any sub-amendments to the amendment submitted by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u358	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u359	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u360	CRIMI (M5S). This is an issue that has been awaited since the beginning of this debate, also in terms of the Presidency's decision, considering the acceleration that has been given also thanks to non-interventionism by the oppositions at some point in the work, in view of what has happened in the last few days, since we are in the finish line and you will probably be able to avoid going beyond tomorrow's day and the vote is scheduled for Tuesday, we would ask you for a reasonable time to avoid, like yesterday, running for an hour to present the sub-amendments, and then hand them over to the offices. We would therefore ask you for time - and we hope that there will be an agreement on this - at least until tomorrow morning, at 8 or 9 a.m., a reasonable time, in short: I do not believe that, as we did yesterday, we will present millions of sub-amendments. You have seen that the sub-amendments are on the subject and are limited to a very precise matter: we have not seen the list, but most of the amendments to Article 39 will certainly be inadmissible, so we only have that window. Allow us to work dignifiedly. After working here last night in the Chamber under those conditions, after a day spent submending an article on the competences of the Regions, which is not a small thing - in short, we are reforming the Constitution, not a building regulation - perhaps having a reasonable and dignified time to be able to work well, would be a useful thing. One hour seems to me to be a very tight time for us. We also use it to communicate - although I think you all already know - that Mayor Marino has resigned. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Perhaps we should reflect on this too, given that Rome is the capital and not a city like many others. These resignations did not come to the times of Mafia Capitale, but they come now, for a receipt: think a little 'what sadness, the country in which we live. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u361	I've decided to give more time, until 9:00 p.m. tonight, not an hour. Tomorrow morning's sitting, if we all agree, in order to be able to assess, will begin later. MARTON (M5S). What's the difference, ma'am? SOLLO (PD). Why later? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The problem is that the Offices must collect the amendments that have been tabled and then we must start the sitting. CRIMI (M5S). But there will be five amendments, Mr President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us give the deadline until 8 a.m. tomorrow morning and the House will start at 10 a.m. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u362	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u363	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u364	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, we can also write an amendment in a pen, but at least we need to evaluate it, and if we need to ask... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Our offices, however, do not enslave them to work until midnight, I don't know about you. Therefore, in the morning, if the House starts at 10 a.m., it will allow us at least the space to subemend until 9 a.m. [[Protests from the PD Group. Reply from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u365	Then I did not explain to myself: the Offices must have time to examine them, those who are: if there are only five, you have until 9 p.m. to be able to do them. Now let's not exaggerate AIROLA (M5S). Not about something you listen to, ma'am, huh? Never! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola [[Comments of Senator Airola]] Senator Airola... until 8:00 a.m. tomorrow morning and recovers at 10:00. I will refer the continuation of the discussion of the constitutional bill No. 1429-B to another session. (19.44 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u366	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u367	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u368	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I am speaking to motivate the Government... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u369	Senator Giovanardi, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u370	Colleagues, we have to have the speeches done at the end of the sitting. I ask you to lower your voice. GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, taking advantage of the presence in the Chamber of Undersecretary Pizzetti, I would like to draw attention to the fact that all the Italian newspapers of yesterday have given great evidence to statements made by a 75-year-old priest on the problem of paedophilia, condemning some sentences used in an interview. For the past two months, with the 2-00299 interview, several senators have been asking the government how it is possible for the Italian Executive to use as a consultant to the National Anti-Racial Discrimination Office (UNAR), which is a body of the Presidency of the Council, the Mario Mieli Circle, entitled to a suicide-dead gentleman who, reported in his interrogations, chanted to pedophilia, pederastia, the duty of every mother to join her daughters and fathers with her children. UNAR is the body that, with the advice of this club, makes strategies for schools and sends decals to journalists. Undersecretary Pizzetti, I call your attention. (The Undersecretary Pizzetti interlogues with some Senators). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Mr. Undersecretary, Senator Giovanardi is calling for an interrogation. GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Can a government have as a consultant against anti-Semitism a club named Adolf Hitler? Can the Italian Government have as a consultant on LGBT issues a circle dedicated to a person who was chanting pedophilia and pederastia? For two months we have been asking you, if the circle does not change its name, to interrupt the advice, otherwise the Italian Government - and not a seventy-five-year-old priest who talks about it - becomes an accomplice to a person who theorized this aberration. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti. Exchange of apostrophes between Senators Giovanardi and Airola.]] AIROLA (M5S). Defend those who rape children! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The solicitation of interrogation is fine, but Senator Giovanardi... [[Senator Airola's comments. Recalls of the President]] Senator Airola, please. AIROLA (M5S). Defend those who rape children! [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u371	He had the opportunity to urge the development of Senator Giovanardi's interrogation. There are words that cannot be defended.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u372	[[Exchange of apostrophes between Senators Giovanardi and Airola. Call the president back.]] Senator Airola. [[Call the president back.]] Senator Giovanardi, you have had the opportunity to urge the interrogation to take place; please leave the floor to colleagues who still have to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u373	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u374	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u375	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to ask some questions and questions. First, at questioning 2-00252, at the first signature of Senator Amidei, which is signed by 53 senators, with the signature that I have affixed today. It is the one that asks the government in general what it intends to do with the inspection union, since the answers are increasingly rare, among other things in an atmosphere in which Parliament counts less and less, and the attitude of the government itself, even in the language of the body in the Chamber, is of total contempt. Secondly, I would like to ask the question 3-02216 of 23 September, signed by me and Senator Gasparri, who urgently asks the Government for explanations on a gift of 1.5 billion, which is made to a society, A4, giving it a concession that then promptly sells itself to a foreign company. Therefore, it is a pure gift: 1.5 billion of the taxpayer given to this society. Since we are still in time to stop it, perhaps the government, along with the many other interesting things it has to do, could take care not to give 1.5 billion to a private company that then sells it: it would be something that it should account for. I am still asking the question 3-01418 - and already twice requested - on 13 November 2014, which calls on the Government to explain why Italy voted against a motion for the protection of the family on 25 June last year at the UN Human Rights Council. It didn't say anything weird, nothing disrespectful. This is a motion that has passed since then. The majority of the Human Rights Council approved it and Italy voted against the family. Finally, I also urge the answer to the questioning 2-00299 of August 5, at the first signature of Senator Giovanardi, signed, as well as by me, also by Senators Gasparri and Formigoni. In it the government is asked to give an answer on the reason for which an association entitled to a lord, who in his only, although ponderous, opera, has exalted, from the first to the last page, pedophilia, the pederastia - has explained as the duty of the educator, of whoever has to deal with a child, is to introduce it to the sex as soon as possible (speaks of arrow of eroticism launched towards the fetus) - well, an association dedicated to this individual, that has not distinguished itself for anything other than for this reason, besides the putting into public practice of some (not this) of the perversions he proposed, is used by the Government as privileged consultant in a document that hopes that this and other associations are accredited at the Ministry of Education for the formation of teachers, parents and students. It would be nice for the government to respond to that, too. The government, however, is committed to other things: to increase its power, to urge the approval of gay marriage and the encouragement of the uterus for rent, but even if it had the courtesy to answer questions signed by so many senators, many times urged, which involve serious injuries of the Italians' interests, it would not be bad. In other words, it would behave like a government of a democratic country, rather than what it has become. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Blondo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u376	The Presidency will be responsible for representing these demands to the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u377	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u378	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u379	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, on 7 October 72 years ago the Nazi massacre in Bellona, in the Province of Caserta, took place, in which fifty-four civilians lost their lives and the Germans had no mercy on women, old people and children. Bellona's was one of the first massacres that made Italians understand Nazi ferocity. As early as September 1943 there had been very serious bloodshed, such as the Boves massacre and the Kefalonia massacre. Very often people wondered how this was possible. Why were the Italians dragged into World War II? Why did they not rebel against a war for which our country was totally unprepared? All this is answered in what happened in the period from 1922 to 1925, when Parliament was gradually and inexorably deprived of power: a slow fall towards the abyss of dictatorship. There are words that come from afar, written by Piero Calamandrei almost seventy years ago in the book "Il fascismo come regime della ligna" (Fascism as a regime of lies). In this book Calamandrei retraces the stages that led to the rise of the regime and highlights how in the early years of fascism it was emphasized the preparation of constitutional reform. I call on the House to listen to these words: The electoral law of the House has been modified and it would not be easy to subtract the Senate from similar modifications. Renewed the House, it would be difficult to make the Senate survive, especially if it was the result of a second-degree election. The two rooms must not be the duplicate of the other. Parliament's bicameral system can only bear fruit if there is no homogeneity of nature and constitution in the two Assemblies. Well, these are not words written by the current Government, although they seem to be, but they are contained in the report of the Committee on the Study of Constitutional Reforms of 1925, which Mussolini wanted and chaired by Gentile. In the 1920s we were faced with a government that, with reforms that crumble the rule of law, seeks through legislative expedients to offer citizens a semblance of legality. The proposals contained in this 1925 report are being implemented in the years of fascism. The participation of citizens was replaced by the mobilization of the masses, the election reduced to a simple expression of consent towards a system of authoritarian government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator Paglini. Mr Paglini (M5S). I would like to ask you a few more seconds and finish, Madam President. Was it plebiscytic democracy? No, democracy wasn't there, as jurist Alfredo Rocco wrote: The formula of plebiscytic appearance of the elections must not deceive the real character of the institution. It is not in homage to a supposed sovereignty of the elector who asks his consent, but only to test his mood. In short, this is a form of mere survey. It remains to be wondered how that outcome has been achieved. At that point what did Mussolini's regime use to permanently eliminate democracy and have free hands? The perfect crime was the approval of the first electoral reform: the Acerbo law, without which the path of the regime would have been more difficult. I ask the citizens to understand... president. Conclude, Senator Paglini. Mr Paglini (M5S). ...analogies between the years Twenty and today, so that we do not find ourselves, then as today, in a state where rights become rag paper and the voice of the people is finally silenced. [[Applause from Senator Scibona.]] Madam President, I would ask you to be kind enough to attach the rest of the documentation, to which I very much care, so that it can remain in the record.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u380	These are end-of-session speeches, which are by their very nature very synthetic.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u381	Anyway, okay, what documentation is this? Mr Paglini (M5S). Historic quotes from the years I referred to. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Okay. Mr Paglini (M5S). Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u382	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u383	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u384	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, two days ago I explained how we could create 170,000 jobs in the recycling sector. Today I would like to start from a fact of the news to explain to the Italians how we could create hundreds of thousands more jobs in other sectors. By the way, this is not only an opportunity, but also a necessity, because if we do not create these jobs in the areas of green chemistry and reclamation, we will very simply die poisoned. So it's an opportunity, but it's also an obligation. I start from the fact of chronicle, which is the publication two days ago in the BUR, the bulletin of the Veneto Region, of an order of the Municipality of Venice that asks to extend the limits of the values of arsenic in the waters of the lagoon. I was a teenager when they began to hear news of extensions and raising the limits of tolerance of the values of poisons in the waters. This is the Italian solution to the problems of pollution by various chemicals (atrazine, arsenic and many others) in the waters: the values are raised and thus the waters are again potable (though only theoretically possible). So, it's clearly not just arsenic. Human inventiveness has created, since the post-war period, about 80,000 substances of synthesis, that is substances that nature does not know: paints, lakes, solvents, glues, thickeners, all material that eventually ends up in the air, on the ground, in water. Then the figure is always the same: a serious policy is needed, based on the payment of the externality, and a policy is needed that stimulates the reclamation and environmental protection. At the level of reclamation and green chemistry, we have two very precise figures: 80,000 billion is worth the green chemistry from here to 2050. It is a figure that is difficult even to conceive. We think that, only with regard to asbestos reclamation activities, there are about 35,000 sites. We therefore have the opportunity to create hundreds of thousands of jobs in the reclamation sector, and it is a necessity that we must concentrate on, with serious tax reform, to make the externalities produced by large companies pay. So the appeal is that instead of focusing on small issues, such as paying the RAI fee in bills, you focus on large companies, which produce immense amounts of pollutants. I remember that only at CO2 level, there are 80 global companies, which produce 90% of global CO2. That is where we need to focus on tax reforms in relation to externalities. These are not things that we say about the 5 Star Movement, but the various international organizations. We have to make politics really charge those who pollute and, literally, kill us. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u385	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u386	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u387	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, this morning I presented a draft law for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the events at the Il Forteto cooperative. Several times I have spoken in the Assembly of the cooperative Il Forteto, ended up on the news pages, for having been involved in atrocious facts, and known as the cooperative of atrocities. Minors, but also adults, were abused there. In July 2013, as soon as I joined this House, I put a question to ask for the intervention of the Ministry and to have some answers, but they are still late to arrive. In June this year, the founder of the Il Forteto community was sentenced to seventeen and a half years for what happened within the cooperative. As early as 2011, the Ministry had requested the Commissariat, but this was not done. In June of this year, a motion approved by the House of Deputies was very bland in seeking the truth about the cooperative Il Forteto. I want to read only a part of the sentence, which has been published, to make you understand the interweaving between community, cooperative and everything else: The statement of the civil responsibility of the cooperative is based on the evidence gathered and the considerations carried out during the present motivation, being proved in a certain way, on the one hand, the total mixture between the cooperative, the community and the individuals who composed it. Tomorrow morning the bill I mentioned will be deposited. I hope that the whole House will finally come to the truth about the 'Forteto system', which is a scandalous system. For years, despite being involved in child abuse, the cooperative received European and regional funds. So let politics assume the responsibility of taking a clear position on this matter. Everyone in Tuscany knows her. Many Tuscans in this House know the story of the Il Forteto Cooperative and are involved in it. So I hope that, once and for all, politics will take the responsibility of saying enough and of really telling what the truth is. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u388	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u389	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u390	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, under the ax of cuts in Abruzzo's health care has fallen, along with other hospitals (Sulmona, Atri, Penne), the obstetrics and gynecology department of the hospital in Ortona, the flagship of our health system. A department of excellence will be closed that meets precisely the criteria established by the Ministry of Health for the first level facilities, and that acts as the shoulder to the hospital in Chieti. It has sanctioned a resolution of 3 July 2015, without that the other suitable garrisons have been announced to serve the basin of territorial users. The curriculum of all respect of this hospital is not enough, of course, to make it free from the interventions of spending review to which the Regions are forced, because of this short-sighted government. Then I ask myself, echoing my many fellow citizens of Abruzzo: how do we close a birth point and a department of gynecology that has been assisting the parents since the thirty-fourth week, and with a very low mortality, equal to that of a large center like Pescara (0,03 per cent), without even preparing an adequate replacement? What is the reason for all this? Let's try to give an answer to such a crazy choice. Abruzzo in recent years has endured not only the cuts in health care, but also a bad political management that, without foresight or guided only by logics of interest, has stifled how good it has been built over the years. For example, professionalism and structures in obstetrics and gynecology. In the eyes of the people of Abruzzo, huge capital has been squandered to build public hospitals that have been born irregularly. They have built them in spite of the urban laws, the norms on the elimination of architectural barriers and on the seismicity of our territory. Not to mention how a certain policy has facilitated the growth of private health, which has generated high costs and then has taken advantage of the instrument of failure to deceive patients and workers of its facilities (doctors, nurses, technicians and administrative). If you make sensible policies, sooner or later cuts are inevitable. And what does the "Good Politics" cut first? Guess what? Just the good things like this obstetrics and gynecology department. This increases the list of unholy political choices of this Government! This is bad management. It is a bleak picture, but it is part of a national scenario, it is worth pointing out, that certainly does not have among the priorities the implementation of Article 32 of the Constitution! I do not remember colleagues, whether we have changed this article with this wonderful reform or not. But there was no need to change it, because this article no longer actually exists. Just look at how health care is treated, or it would be better to say, "maltreated" in Italy. Precisely in the DEF 2015 update note, the health expenditure expected for 2016 is about 113 billion, plus 2 billion compared to 2015 but 2.35 billion less than the 115 foreseen by the 2014 health pact, so much declared by Minister Lorenzin! Therefore, despite the fact that there is a clear increase in funds compared with today, health expenditure is substantially lower in terms of both forecasts and GDP growth. I shall conclude, Madam President, and thank you for the extra time you have given me. While health spending in other eurozone countries historically grows compared to GDP, the opposite is true in Italy. The National Health System is being underfunded with obvious consequences for citizens' pockets! In conclusion, once again, he will pay Pants! In short, it's the usual Renziano game of the three cards: he shows that he puts the money right where five minutes before he took them off himself! IMU agricola docet! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u391	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u392	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u393	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, the support of Forza Italia recently found during a crucial amendment on reforms - crucial because it probably would have failed - has aroused comments from me and piccated reactions from some senators. However, I would like to bring to the House and to the House some facts of the current news, which are not my personal fantasies. The Mondadori group buys RCS (Rizzoli-Corriere della Sera). The group is led by Marina Berlusconi, who already has in dowry Einaudi, Piemme, Sperling & Kupfer, Frassinelli and Electa. We bring home a series of prestigious brands, such as Rizzoli, Rizzoli International Publications, Bompiani, Marsilio, Fabbri Editori, Bur, Sonzogno, Etas and the whole education division. It had never occurred that a group controlled up to 35-40 percent of the Italian publishing market. Wherever there is a free market there is also an institution that can verify that the conditions for that market to be truly free can exist; it is called Antitrust and could - I hope it does - intervene to stem any abuse of a dominant position. But why this silence on the part of politics? Why does no politician comment? Why is there an ominous silence on this matter? Second element. In recent months, Renzi-Berlusconi's award-winning company has failed to transfer RAI Way to Mediaset, one of the strategic assets of RAI and - I think we can say - to guarantee the public utility of the RAI television service. It did not succeed because of the intervention of CONSOB and the proxy, which at the time opened an investigation for information update against the board of directors of EI Towers, of the Mediaset group. Third element. From a study by Nielsen on advertising expenses faced by the current government emerges the purchase of advertising space on the networks of Silvio Berlusconi group for a total of 2.5 million euros compared to 540,000 of the previous year. We are talking about a five-fold increase in the budget for a private subject. Now, in the past few days, in a long and win-winning service, Alan Friedman has clearly stated that Berlusconi will not leave until he wins again. I do not think that, at the age of seventy-nine, this victory refers to an electoral competition, but, recalling the words of Mr Violante, Mr Berlusconi... He knows for sure that he has been given the full guarantee... that the televisions would not have been touched...I wonder if something like this is not happening even now and if we do not have all the eyes - I hope not lined up - a "Nazarene 3", which no longer has an electoral base, but perhaps two elements: on the one hand, the good exit from Silvio Berlusconi's policy, without forgetting that there are also very delicate judicial issues in the middle; on the other, his political heritage, which the subjects in which he fragmented Force Italy today probably want to take. Well, I think that, by combining all these elements, one cannot deny that at least one doubt about the existence of "Nazarene 3" should have it, we politicians before all. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u394	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u395	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u396	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business. We have already spoken for a few days - I remember you presided - about the need to give meaning and a framework to the speeches at the end of the sitting. It seems to me that the request for questions is one of the elements, but the interesting hypothesis put forward by Senator Endrizzi seems to me to be much more questionable. If this is the forum on which everyone thinks - which I do not agree with, while he obviously would, otherwise he would not have done so - then we have to regulate it. In fact, I believe that every Group - we too - would be able, can and will want to make its own curtain, which is always better than doing it at home because there are more people listening. I therefore call for a definition. I see great rigidity, in some ways, and then there are spaces. It is legitimate for all to speak, but there must be equal conditions for all. [[Applause from Senator Baptist]] ENDRIZZI (M5S). I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u397	The debate on this issue is not open. The matter, also by the leaders, must be referred to the President, who will consider submitting it to the relevant bodies (the Presidency Council and the Conference of the Leaders). I agree that the speeches at the end of the sitting must have pre-defined characteristics and be typed, because otherwise it would be arbitrary for the Presidency to intervene on one occasion rather than on another. I therefore believe that this matter should be considered.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u398	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-520.ana.u399	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Friday 9 October, at 10 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.15 p.m.
