ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 18 June.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u4	LANGELLA (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u8	On 19 June 2015, the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance and by the Minister for the Interior (1977). Colleagues, I warn you that the Conference of Leaders is under way. I therefore suspend the sitting pending the conclusion of its proceedings. (The sitting was suspended at 16.36 p.m. and resumed at 18.15 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u9	The session is resumed. The Conference of Leaders approved by a majority changes and additions to the current timetable and the new timetable until 2 July. Without prejudice to the agenda for today's and tomorrow's sitting, tomorrow's afternoon sitting will examine, until the end of the general debate, the draft law for the reform of the national education system, already approved by the House of Deputies and linked to the budgetary maneuver. The examination of the measure, for which the deadlines have been distributed among the Groups, as provided for in Rule 126-a of the Rules of Procedure, will end in the single sitting on Thursday. Amendments to the measure will have to be tabled by 7 p.m. tomorrow. With the exception of tomorrow's afternoon sitting, no closing hours are scheduled for the other sessions this week. Thursday afternoon's question time will not take place. The timetable for next week's proceedings provides for the examination of the Decree-Law on the relaunch of the agricultural sector and other unfinished draft laws, as well as, at the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 1 July, the vote for the election of a member of the Board of the Court of Auditors, already scheduled for the current week.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u10	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting this afternoon with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following integration to the program of the Senate's work for the months of April, May and June 2015: - Draft law n. 1934 - Reform of the national system of education and training and delegation for the reorganization of the existing legislative provisions (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Collegato alla legge di budgeto per l'anno 2015) (Vote finale con la presenza del numero legale)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u11	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted amendments to the current timetable and the new timetable until 2 July 2015 pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure: [[Tuesday, June 23 pom. h. 16,30 - Drawing of law n. 1259 - Delegate for the reform of the confids (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of constitutional law n. 1289 and connected - Changes of the Statute of Friuli-Venezia Giulia in the matter of local authorities (First resolution of the Senate) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of law n. 1568 and connected - Social agriculture (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) Wednesday 24 June ant. h. 9,30-13 - Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 25 and 26 June 2015 Wednesday 24 June pom. h. 16,30 - Draft law n. 1934 - Reform of the national education system (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Linked to the budget law for the year 2015) (Final vote with the presence of the quorum) Thursday 25 " ant. h. 9,30]] Amendments to draft law No 1934 (Reform of the National Education System) will have to be tabled by 7 p.m. on Wednesday 24 June. [[Tuesday, June 30 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 1971 - Decree-Law n. 51, relaunch of the agricultural sector (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (It falls on 5 July) - Following unfinished draft law - Vote for the election of a member of the Council of President of the Court of Auditors (Vote by secret ballot by ballot) (Wednesday 1 July, pm.) (*) Wednesday 1 July ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 2 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 2 July pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to bill No 1971 (Decree-Law No 51, relaunching the agricultural sector) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Thursday 25 June. (*) At the opening of the afternoon session on Wednesday 1st July the call of the senators will be made. The ballot boxes will then remain open until 7 p.m. Time distribution for discussion of the Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 25 and 26 June 2015 (3 hours, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 2 hours and 30 minutes, of which: PD 35' FI-PdL XVII 20' M5S 17' AP (NCD-UDC) 17' Mixed 16' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 13' GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI, IdV) 11' LN-Aut 11' CRi 11' Dissentienti 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1934 (National System of Education Reform) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, including: PD 1 h. 37' FI-PdL XVII 55' M5S 47' AP (NCD-UDC) 47' Mixed 44' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 36' GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI, IdV) 32' LN-Aut 31' CRi 31' Dissententi 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1971 (Decree-Law No 51, relaunch of the agricultural sector) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, including: PD 1 h. 9' FI-PdL XVII 39' M5S 33' AP (NCD-UDC) 33' Mixed 32' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 26' GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI, IdV) 23' LN-Aut 23' CRi 23' Dissententi 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u14	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, there is yet another tearing-off of the majority. The Conference of Leaders was surreal. We are going to schedule - and I also ask President Zanda this question in this Chamber: when would he have ever wanted to ask a group leader to schedule this measure, if it had not been for Senator De Petris? - indeed, we have set a timetable for a measure on which we are working and which we have been trying to improve for months, in the most absolute farce. The teachers went to the streets, along with all the students, to say loudly that this provision is bad. The minority has tabled only constructive amendments and no obstructionist amendments. And at the Conference of the Leaders, Mr President, I proposed that the amendments be reduced as much as possible. It wasn't possible. The minority, including the Group for the Autonomies, which says that the measure has a special urgency - but it never explains to me what the urgency is, given that we have also proposed the deletion for the part relating to recruitment - is practically hiding on itself. I ask you why you do not want to discuss this matter. What are you afraid of, of your own majority? [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and Misto-SEL Groups.]] Why not vote on the amendments in the Commission? What is the problem of voting on the amendments one by one and remaining on the substance of the measure? What's the hurry? Can you explain it to me? So, Mr President, as I said at the Conference of the Leaders, we propose that we be on the subject and that this measure be scheduled for next week without tearing away. We also demand respect for the work of the Commissioners of the Education Commission, because they deserve it. We cannot come to the House tomorrow with a large amendment which is not even known whether it will be accepted as an amendment or with another large amendment on which to open the terms again. Mr President, we cannot continue to work like this. The maxi amendment contains the errors, which we have already pointed out in the Capigroup: there are missing comma and double comma. It is repeating what happened during the work on the bill of stability. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Mussini and Simeoni]] I ask you to stop. It is not necessary to block the measure for months, but it takes two or three days to choose amendments that do good to the measure. Gentlemen, please stop. In addition, Mr President, I have also asked for the provision on citizenship income to be scheduled for Tuesday, which is urgent for the population. This is urgent. We propose, then, that Tuesday the draft law on citizenship income be discussed, we propose to the majority to do the deletion of the part concerning the hiring of precarious persons and to bring to the next week the provision on school. It seems to me a reasonable position ours. There is no obstruction and there is no will in any way to do anything wrong with the country. In fact, we are in favour of making things better. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Mussini and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u17	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to address Senator De Petris: perhaps he was wrong to ask for the Conference of Leaders to be convened today. I have the impression that we have made a tactical mistake. The extraordinary thing about this school adventure, done in the parliamentary classrooms, and on which we discussed an hour and a half at the Conference of the Leaders - where I did not talk about the numbers I had and which I reserved to reveal in the Chamber - is that of the 2,000 amendments tabled overall, which seem to be such as to justify an obstructionist attitude, 334 are from the Democratic Party. This means that the obstruction evoked by President Zanda in the Group Leaders basically concerns his party. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, LN-Aut and M5S and the Senators Mussini and Simeoni]] So, something's not right here, ma'am. Today she wanted - forgive me, I say with respect - to force her hand. It took into account only and exclusively the request of the majority. The majority wanted to schedule the measure in this House and the measure was scheduled for tomorrow in this House, without allowing the examination in the Commission, to which a large amendment was tabled today for a fake, against which the deadline for sub-amendments was also set tomorrow at 2 p.m. The result of the group leader is that all this was a pantomime end in itself [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] And, tomorrow, we are going to examine in this House not the maxi amendment, which we have been waiting for for a few days to come, but the measure in its initial drafting. And, for what we have understood, probably having given as the deadline for the amendments to the initial measure 19, will be disguised, among many, a maxi amendment, signed - I suppose - by the Government or a loyal representative of the Democratic Party (not certainly of the authors of the 334 sub-amendments I mentioned earlier), and on it probably the Government will ask for confidence, and only on it. As the measure linked to the Stability Act, pursuant to Article 126a and, therefore, the subject of consideration by the Budget Commission, only that major amendment will be examined by the Budget Commission and there will therefore be no room for either amendments or sub-amendments. That is what will happen tomorrow and trust will be placed on Thursday. I told a little lie that everyone fell into. We, Mr Zanda, have tabled 179 amendments, not thousands of them; I just wanted to test your willingness to see if there was a chance of a meeting, a discussion, a deepening, which is not there. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] You are in trouble because your President-in-Office, your party secretary, at Porta Porta and in the direction of the PD said that we needed some insights, it took time, it took fifteen days, it needed confrontation with the PD. All of this has not happened and there is no comparison in Parliament anymore; in the Senate Chamber confrontation is forbidden. Tomorrow there will be a timetable for an outdated measure, there will be no opportunity to examine the amendments, there will be a large disguised amendment on which the government will put its trust. This is what we are waiting for, my fellow senators, and I find you, Mr President, to forgive me, to go into more detail and allow this House to speak here, with a clear and open discussion, about a problem that concerns everyone, the citizens, our students, professors and even the Italian squares, where this confrontation has been, while you have denied it to this House of Parliament. I'm sorry, but it's a dark, black, horrible page of Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senators Mussini and Simeoni]] VOICES FROM THE FI-PdL GROUP XVII. Bravo!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u20	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, as you wanted to prove. When the measure came to the Commission - I am not an owl, a brake, I am not what the President of the Council could say - I said: We hope there will be a civil path; we hope there will be a serious journey; we hope to be able to deal with this measure in the best possible way. We hope that the President-in-Office of the Council will not do the thing on television; we hope that we will not find ourselves, at the end of the discussion in the Commission, with a question of trust. Colleagues, in the Committee on Culture the opposition was a minority, and the minority was constructive and available to the majority to try to find the best possible modus operandi for this measure. We consider this to be a wrong measure in all its form and substance, but we felt that it was still an important and serious way to start talking about school in the Senate of the Republic. Since the minority trusts the Minister and President Marcucci, it has been cooperative from every point of view, and it has been so every time that the Democratic Party has forced President Marcucci to play the part of the one who weaves the canvas during the day and in the evenings unraveled it. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] During the day, the Commission was summoned and soon the news arrived that the Commission was uncalled for. Of the seventy hours of debate available, eighteen have been used. There were days of possible work available to my colleagues in the Commission where amendments could be dealt with, but every time there was a problem, so it was referred to the next day, the next day, to who knows when. This well knowing that outside, in the meantime, Mr. Renzi, as is his style (we are now accustomed because already a year ago, with constitutional reforms, we were here to work and he was out to say the stupidities), he said everything and more, he said everything and the opposite of everything. But we went on believing in this majority and thinking that we could work and that we could compare the measures. Outside the Secretary of the Democratic Party he spoke of thousands and thousands of amendments, of obstruction by oppositions, because he had to try, in one way or another, to find the consensus of the world of school that with this measure he lost. We all know very well that with this measure the Democratic Party has lost all support from that world and that electorate, which was its electorate. ( [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]] ). The professors who voted Democratic Party showed the sign "Never more PD". As a result, it was and is more convenient to say around that it is the fault of the brakes and opponents. The League has tabled some 130 substantive amendments, because we believed each other and because we were willing to talk about this measure, about reform and problems of the school, about teachers and about everything that concerns the world of the school. This morning the farce of farces. Last week we closed the Commission's work with the rapporteurs who are asking us for time because they have to present a document on which - we are told - we can compare in the amending. On the weekend no one questions us, I go quietly to Pontida - where we knew that no one from the Democratic Party would ever call us - and today they present themselves with the fake maxi amendment. And it turned out the way it went, with President Marcucci having to handle an embarrassing situation and with President Zanda who told us at the Conference of the Leaders that, between the House and the Senate, this provision has stood out for too long. Sure, it's a reform! How long do you want us to talk about this? President Zanda tells us that this is the sick example of prefect bicameralism, when we all know very well that the rapporteurs in the Commission have come to tell us that their sub-amendments and the maxims were used to change the crap done in the House of Deputies, the mistakes made in the House of Deputies. ( [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group).]] So the debate is needed in the Commission in order to have the benevolence of the opposition and it is not necessary in this House, when it is necessary to "break up" and be hard! President Zanda still tells us that this is obstructionism, without knowing that actually - Mr President, we have told him in all languages, but it seems that you of the majority do not understand these things - minorities were not doing obstructionism. Obstructionism perhaps you are doing it in your home: look among yourselves, do not look towards us; we were willing to talk and relate to each other. I shall end, Mr President, by presenting an alternative proposal: we return to the Commission as quickly as possible, together with President Marcucci, who is a serious person and who, contrary to the President of the Council, is one with whom we can speak (President Marcucci, I hope that I have not put her in trouble by comparing her to his President of the Council); we shall examine together all the amendments that have been tabled, because we all know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that many of them are equal to each other, copies, and we all know very well that a large number of amendments have been adopted. So let's go see how many of the real amendments are, let's have a real quick debate about school. Let's talk seriously and constructively and then come back to this House. After confrontation with the world of school at that point we vote. You didn't do that either, or you pretended to listen to him: among other things, Renzi said he would organize a maxi meeting, a maxi meeting with the world of school in July, when everyone is on vacation. If your goal, however, after not listening to the world of school, is as it seems, another, then put your trust. Let's not make it long, Mr. President, let's do it as fast as we can. Our proposal is to return to the Commission. If you want to put trust, do it quickly, let's hurry, also because people don't want to listen to us who are here to play. Outside there are people who work; in the world of school there are serious people who work seriously, not people who make fun of professors, parents and students. ( [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Mussini and Simeoni).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u23	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to point out to President Romani that I have done very well to ask for the Conference of the Leaders to be convened, because, although I would have wished to be so wrong, unfortunately we are now used to a way of proceeding which has become almost an open book. It is very sorry to say that for what went on and I use the expression "on the air" because only by turning on the television, once on the Sky channel, once on the broadcast "Door-to-Door" we were informed of what was going on at that time for the head of the President of the Council or of the Government in the broad sense. We have, therefore, learned that in reality the obstruction by the opposition was in place, which prevented the urgent approval of the part concerning recruitment. Mr President, we have always been on the subject, because, in the face of concerns about the timing of recruitment, we have proposed that we begin to examine our proposals and other proposals in the Commission, and that we remove this part and concentrate on them, so that the time issue is resolved as well. With regard to amendments, we have tabled 263 of them; President Romani said at the Conference of the Leaders that Forza Italia would be obstructive, but I said that they had only submitted 183 of them (Senator Petraglia is very precise). There were, then, about 100 presented by the North League and those of the 5 Star Movement. In fact, all the oppositions presented a thousand of them. Among those already examined in the budget committee and, therefore, declared inadmissible and the many quite similar amendments, in fact the number of votes to be taken would have been very limited. I am also saying this because we, contrary to what we wanted to represent outside, have repeatedly asked the Commission to start voting. We had asked first to start voting on an agenda that began to outline some issues, finally "importing" even in the 7th Commission a practice widely used in the last two years in the Senate. On the other hand, Mr President, I recall that a vote was taken in the Commission on 15 June - ten amendments were voted on - and then it was virtually always ignored. All last week, in fact, there has been no work by the Commission, which has been summoned and then disconcerted and, therefore, has been deliberately avoided from confrontation. The truth is another: they did not want to tackle the nodes and confront the numbers, of which one was afraid within the Commission. At the Conference of Leaders you often refer to the numbers of the majority, i.e. what the majority is asking for, but perhaps in the Commission too we had to deal with the numbers, with the opinions of the individual Commissioners and, on the other hand, we deliberately avoided this. We have witnessed a veritable obstruction by the majority, who did not want to tackle the issues in question and has constantly shunned the possibility of voting, in order to be able to put on stage a blackmail on recruitment. And we have also had the opportunity to respond on this point. We have arrived at the farce of the farce, so that, in the Commission this morning, the rapporteurs have tabled a large amendment which totally rewrites the text with Article 1 and has been given time to submit the sub-amendments, setting the deadline tomorrow at 2 p.m. Instead, what does the majority ask the Leaders? He asked to schedule the bill and bring it to the Assembly immediately, without even waiting. What do we know about it and what do you know, Mr President, about what would have happened? Perhaps only a few significant sub-amendments would have been presented and could have been concentrated in the work of the Commission. But no: it was simply and once again a trick. Should we pass on to those who are obstructive and who would have prevented recruitment when they wanted to avoid confrontation within the Commission in all ways? The serious thing, Mr President, is that the majority has shunned the confrontation: in this way we want to bypass the confrontation and think of calming the revolt in the school. You didn't want to confront the world of school. At one point the Conference on School came out, announced in July, so it seemed that the debate would finally begin. Instead, they were just tricks, to say that we should have satisfied ourselves with this bill as it is, because there is no possibility of confrontation, neither with families, nor with teachers, nor with the union. You are deceiving yourself, however, because this will not be concluded even when you have voted in this House after putting your trust in the usual trick, so we will examine the basic text, although the maxi amendment has already been tabled - since, as a related one, it still had to be submitted to the Commission - and we, in theory, will have to resubmit all the amendments - few, however - that we have tabled to the Commission. Everything is played on the wire and on the vague interpretation of procedures, with the only political purpose to tell the whole world of the school that it has no title to speak and can say nothing about this bill. All criticism and all proposals are rejected to the sender. But if you think and pretend that this is gonna end here, this time you've done the wrong thing. I say this to the majority: not only has this matter already cost you much in the last election, for the votes you have lost, but by approving the bill made in this way, in September the school will be a Calvary. Don't think this is gonna end here! [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX and Mixed-ILC Groups and Senator Simeoni.]] The world of school is in fact a conscious world, which knows perfectly what you are talking about and knows the tricks you are putting on the field. Do not think that you will be able to use it and that, approved the trust - cooked and eaten, as is said in Rome - and rushed back the bill to the Chamber of Deputies, since it is July everything will calm down, because it is absolutely not so. The serious thing is that you did not want to listen to criticism, suggestions and proposals: you did not really want to understand what it takes today to relaunch the school. This will have serious consequences for the Italian school, because the draft law, Mr President, calls into question certain fundamental constitutional principles, first and foremost that of freedom of education. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX and Mixed-ILC Groups and Senator Simeoni.]] The consequences of all this will be paid not only by the majority that will carry out this bill, but unfortunately risk weighing on the future of the Italian school. I therefore propose that the draft law should return to the Commission and that it should be at least modest to wait until the deadline of 2 p.m. for the submission of sub-amendments and discuss them on the subject. As far as next week is concerned, since you have always told us, Mr President, that the draft legislation which has not been concluded in the Commission cannot be included in the timetable. [[Applause from Senator Montevecchi]] , but now we see that the draft law on school will be included in the calendar of the Assembly, I ask on behalf of the Mixed-SEL Group that on 30 June - the day chosen by the Free Association for its initiative on the income of citizenship and dignity - the draft law on this subject should be put on the agenda. I believe that poverty and the need to meet the problems of so many millions of people in this country mean, for once, a courageous and serious decision on the part of this House. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, Mixed-MovX and Mixed-ILC Groups and the Senators Montevecchi, Nugnes, Santangelo and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u26	BONFRISCO (CRI). Mr President, I will not repeat the things already said by many of my fellow Members who, together with me, have witnessed, at the Conference of the Leaders, a failure on the part of the majority in relation to the obligation that we all have to respect this House, as well as to the whole representation of the citizens. I should like to explain more clearly, Mr President, and I assure you that I will do so very quickly. I think that the story, as it is being concluded in the last few hours, shows that this law, which started with an important title such as "Good School" will end up becoming a bad law, in the haste of wanting to re-understand, given the emergence of the stabilisation of more than 100,000 precarious, also a hypothesis of rewriting and, if we want to call it that, of reform, but I am very modest about the use of this term because I think we are abusing it. In fact, there is little in this reform measure, but perhaps more could not exist: two emergencies such as school building and the stabilization of precarious people did not, of course, allow to deepen, finance and really support a good school, to invest in what is most needed at a good school. I am referring to a distant offer of training, as I was able to appreciate at least in the statements, especially of the President of the Council, from the old vision that only the teacher and his salary are at the centre of the school. I am referring to the valorization of the good teacher - because many excellent teachers animate our school - and especially of the many students who have the need for a more modern and current formative offer, as we have been saying for a long time. However, I see the Government and its majority giving in to all of this, which are simply concerned by a small parliamentary debate. In fact - as you have been reminded, Mr President - there has been virtually no work in the Commission and I do not believe that this has happened because of President Marcucci's lack of will. I believe, however, that today's haste is the result of a decision that I think is very serious: resolved the issues and problems of the PD in the party assembly, everything else counts for nothing. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]] It doesn't matter to listen to the teachers and, therefore, that referral to the general states is a bit of a joke. Summoning the general states and starting consultations with teachers and school staff, after the so-called reform has been approved, is a bit ridiculous. But even stifling the debate in this House is a very serious assumption of responsibility. While we often lose many hours on subjects far less important than that of the school, instead on the architecture of our constitutional and institutional structure, and therefore on the living flesh of democracy, as well as on the school, which is no less important than the living flesh of democracy - from there, in fact, passes one of the fundamental declinations of democracy - in this House it is forbidden to debate. A sign was used, in the good old days, on which it was written: It is forbidden to talk about politics here. Well, in this House it is forbidden to talk about important things. It is forbidden to talk about the great issues that affect the flesh of Italian citizens, of families, of students, of teachers, of non-teaching staff and that are above all in our perspective of the future. We are explaining to these younger generations that one escamotage behind the other - the maxi amendment or the amendment of the rapporteurs - will solve their problems, but that is not the case. For these reasons, on the timetable for this work, we express our opposition and will vote against it. [[Applause from the CRI and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u29	Montevecchi (M5S). I believe that the premier has programmed everything to discuss us today. If I see the whole film of the events that characterized the iter of this provision and put together all the tiles, I realize that we are witnessing a story not sad, but pathetic for all of us who are in here [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] and much more pathetic for those who are in government and for the Premier because he was allowed to make fun of people. He allowed himself to play with people's lives; he allowed himself to take time and play his dirty political games to secure the majority in Parliament, the majority he did not have in the Commission. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]] That is why he wants to bypass the work in the Commission. That is why the rapporteurs (one from the PD and the other from the People's Area) have rewritten four articles of this measure, in order to ensure that the number of amendments rose and there was an excuse to say that the work was slowed down by the large number of amendments. Among other things, real obstructionism, as other colleagues have already said, has come from within. Do we want to read the amendments tabled by some PD senator? These are amendments that move a comma within a sentence! Those are obstructive amendments, not the ones we have tabled! And so, with the complicity of the rapporteurs themselves, tragedy and farce were consumed. We've come so far. I wonder, as Senator Bonfrisco rightly said: these general states, which had been flagged with great announcements, with the beautiful square jawbone and with the setting of the capable and valorous leader, when were they made? Where has this listening been? Who was summoned? Nobody told us. Minister, when were these general states made? When was this listening? There wasn't! You've made fun of the school world. You started teasing him with the online consultation. One of the most popular requests of that consultation was the cancellation of the chicken classes; it was going back to a human number of students within the classes. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Simeoni and Bignami]] That request was not accepted in this measure. All requests made during the Senate affair and made during the hearings to the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate where are they? Where are they in these maxi amendment, which is just fake because nothing changes the school system of this reform? It is a system that we oppose not because we have fun making the opposition, but because it has been challenged and harshly criticized by the whole world of the school, which went to the square on May 5 to protest and which protested with other thousand initiatives. I also understand that on Sunday evening that same world protested against this reform even inside a PD station in Bologna. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Simeoni and Bernini]] That means you don't even listen to your own voters. Do not listen to anyone because there is a Premier who has exchanged the role of the President of the Council with that of a monarch. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] This monarch, at the beginning of September, will crash into a world of school that won't take a summer to forget the filth you want to pass. You want to give this country a system of education in which private individuals will be increasingly present, in which there will be inequalities: rich territories, rich schools, students of serious A; poor territories, poor schools, students of series B, with a manager who will confer the assignments. It is a reform that does not even listen to the judgment of the European Court of Justice. It goes against that sentence and we're going through an infringement procedure. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Simeoni and Bignami]] Then tell me what is that far-sighted government that prefers to take home the "victorina" of Pirro: this is because the votes of the school world have already lost them, as you have already lost those of most of your electorate, considering that they have come to contest you in the sections of the PD. And you, Mr President, who should be a guarantor and on these occasions should stand up as an impartial referee, would have the power not to make these things happen: but you also agree, and this is one of the most serious things, because it means that one of the highest positions of the State is taking part in this shame, which is unacceptable. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] What example do we set for our boys? How are we going to demand from our future adults and our citizens loyalty, compliance with the law, participation and respect for the opponent, even if he thinks otherwise, with these examples before his eyes? Is that the example we want to set? Then I implore you - I repeat - to exercise your power as a super party referee and to return this measure to the Commission, so that the work we are doing on the maxi amendment is not as vain as all the work we have done in recent months, that we do not play on the skin of teachers, that we do not allow ourselves with asylum blackmail Mariuccia to bring home a reform of the school that has been criticized by everyone, even by the former minister of education Carrozza. That's not possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] The remaining proposal for a timetable is that this week we should continue with the timetable that had already been laid down and that work should be completed, as the Commission' s timetable, pending the arrival of the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission and that this measure should come to this House with the mandate to the rapporteur, once the whole process has been completed as it has to be done. [[Live, sustained applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u32	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to make clear the proposal to amend the timetable by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats... [[Minister Giannini is back in the Chamber. Ironic applause and comments from the M5S Group. Protests from the PD Group.]] I'm waiting. [[Brusio.]] PUGLIA (M5S). Pull it back! FACTORS (M5S). Retreat, retreat! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malan, please state your proposal for a change to the calendar. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr. President, I can't hear myself either. [[Brusio. Extended applause from the M5S Group.]] The proposal is to keep the House's timetable unchanged so that we can examine the measures envisaged and really discuss the measure on school in the Commission, as had been agreed unanimously. I would remind you that in the Calendar of the Assembly's proceedings there will be an examination of draft laws on the disciplinary responsibility of the magistrates, on the Statute of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, on social agriculture, on the protection of children in the territories controlled by Boko Haram and Isis, which seem to me to address important issues that everyone had agreed to examine. [[Applause from Senator Pelino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u35	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I would really like to ask for a moment of attention, because in this House we are currently dealing with the subject of school, which has also been dealt with in other legislation, with passages that have always slipped out of this House. What happens in this House, however, does not slip into the school, which instead lives the things we decide today in a daily life that involves profound transformations. I think the school is the main reason why I'm here, which I've dedicated myself to, and why I've decided to accept a nomination to join the Senate. The number of teachers in this Senate... [[Brusio.]] Please listen to me, ladies and gentlemen, because there will not be so many opportunities to talk about school. It is not that we deal with this issue every legislature over and over again. Just brush it once, and go. The first and foremost reason why I am in this House is this. It was a discussion that started a long time ago. The school has mobilized since Minister Giannini and the President of the Council released this document in PDF, their idea of school. It was difficult, no doubt. Nor is it easy to make a real consultation. There have been many criticisms and there have been difficult times. I have a speech to make in this House when, in front of the Ministry, some teachers have been greeted by some riot policemen. Teachers: people who are not dangerous. People who go around with books, pencils, pens, paper and the tasks to be corrected, and who had gone there to present their criticisms. I don't want to retrace the whole argument about guilt and merits here, going to divide those who are wronged by those who are right. I just say that. I attended all the auditions in the House. Well, in all the hearings in the House there has been a strong criticism to many parties. There have also been indications, with opinions, even important, that have come from all over the world, not only from the school, but also from that side-world to the school. There have been many indications. Something was collected, but so much was burned by the haste because, in the end, the path led to the House was also a path made quickly. A path in which, in any case, the timing has been suspended in the Commission. The groups were able to table only a few amendments, and that has already been a wound in the debate. We arrive here at the Senate, where the text could be improved and a discussion could be completed. I also attended auditions in the Senate and, actually, everyone, even those who could be satisfied with the Chamber auditions, when they came to the Senate weren't even them anymore. If possible, then, the transition from the House to the Senate has increased the concerns and concerns. Now we are faced with a job that, however, deserves to be completed. As for the amendments, they are all stories. We already knew everything. Everything had already been announced, by the press agencies and in the corridors. The teachers, in the various cities, and who will organize themselves in the next few days, also knew. The history of the amendments is a secret of Pulcinella. It's a great deception. In this House, perhaps, many will think that teachers are idlers and that they have to do better, that students have to grow differently and that families still have more or less rights, that they must or should not exist. But we all have a great responsibility here, which is that of the enormous distance that exists today between politics and real society. And this is a responsibility that no one will take away from us. It doesn't take it away from me: both as a teacher for whom the school is, among things (not among people), the one I care about most; both as a political subject who is here to represent something. This is the greatest responsibility. We can hurt the school, because, excluding it from the debate, we do it. Even more, however, we are hurting democracy. In this way, in fact, we are proving that decisions are made on people's heads. And we are not just talking about teachers, because the problem is not a job problem (so it is true that there is a refusal to the idea of separating recruitment from the rest). Here we are talking about the problem in general, what we are going to put into the school. We are talking about the relationships of strength that we are going to establish within schools. We're talking about private intervention. I can have ideas different from Senator Malan's or Senator Marin's. Great. However, I wonder why there should not be a time when, according to a democratic constitutional principle, the ideas representing Senator Mussini and those representing Senator Palma are put to the vote. Why not? Why not in this House? Why can't we do that? This behavior is offered to citizens as a measure of how little we are interested in the fact that today, here, we can enter into the substance, because there are other needs, because there are a number of instances in there that are not those of the school. There's nothing. In the various programs of all the parties that are represented here, there is no drawing that, first of all, is not present in the Democratic Party program. I repeat: first of all, it is not in that program. We, then, are doing an operation here that, even before being of damage to the school, is of damage to the image that the people can have of us. Well, let's kick the institutions again. All right, let's move them away even further. The last election is not enough. In Emilia-Romagna, which is my region, the votes valid in the last regional elections were 34 percent. There is no need to think about this. We're in a hurry. For what reason? Mr President, the history of hiring is also a stratospheric deception, because there is no need for it. In fact, autonomy already exists, as well as the regulatory framework for recruitment. We are doing a debilitating operation for the institutions and we cannot afford it. First of all, we are doing it with regard to the school, in which the culture of democracy is cultivated. Is that it, or isn't it? I repeat: or not? I ask everyone if they want to carry this weight, because it is collective, but also individual. We now have to vote on the proposed changes to the timetable. In the Conference of Leaders there are the Leaders who make all their arguments and who have all their pressures behind them. Now, however, we are in a Chamber in which everyone votes according to their own awareness and conscience. At this point, therefore, this vote is not only on a calendar: it is a vote on a position, on a care of the institutions and on the care of democracy. It's a different vote. [[Applause from the Misto-MovX Group and Senator Carraro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u38	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I rise to make a proposal to amend the timetable. In the meantime, it is absolutely not urgent to bring the draft law on school to the attention of the House. The recruitments already in the maxi amendment... [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u39	I do not want to interrupt you at all, Senator Blundo, but you must explain the amendment proposal, because your Group has already expressed itself several times.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u40	SANTANGELO (M5S). Let her talk! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, we let her speak, but she has to say what the proposed change to the timetable is. BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to say what is necessary to make my proposal. You asked to schedule the school bill tomorrow. I am telling you that in the maxi amendment recruitment is provided for as ordinary legislation, so much so that there is not even the issue of recruitment with the organisational model that, on the other hand, is shifted to next year. So, that can be done. The draft law is either withdrawn or referred to the Commission. The proposal is that tomorrow the motion of no confidence be brought to the House with regard to Mr Alfano, because it is time for us to examine what is really happening on the issue of immigrants and what value Mare nostrum has had to date. I also propose that Thursday we take you to the House and that the draft law on citizenship income be drawn up as urgently, with the same urgency as you had for the school bill. ISTAT has already said that there is coverage and that it is even greater than need. I request the vote on my proposal. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u41	I put to the vote the proposal for an amendment which, by summing up the various proposals that have been made, concerns the maintenance of the previous timetable and the inclusion of the draft law on education, when the examination by the Commission is completed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u44	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we have also proposed that the previous timetable be maintained. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The two seemed connected to me. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). We are happy with the previous timetable and the timetable set out in the proposal you have just mentioned, which provides for the inclusion of citizenship income, is not good.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u45	All right, let's split the two votes. I put to the vote the proposal to maintain the previous calendar. It's not approved. I still have the counterproof. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to include the draft law on education in the timetable when the Commission's examination will be completed. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to include the draft law on citizenship income in the first point of next week's calendar. It's not approved. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to include Mr Alfano in the calendar of the motion of no confidence. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u48	ORRU' (PD). Mr President, colleagues... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u49	Please leave the Chamber in silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u50	Please, Senator Orrù. ORRU' (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking here today for a proper and moving memory of Nicola Badalucco, who died on 17 June at the age of 86. Probably his name is better known because he is linked to his vast work as a journalist and screenwriter, to which he owes film titles such as "The fall of the gods of Luchino Visconti and "Death in Venice," always by Visconti, to mention only the two probably most famous titles. For television, he signed as a screenwriter, among the many productions, "La Piovra" by Damiani. (at 7.15 p.m.) After the painter Carla Accardi, his sister-in-law, who died in February 2014, another son of my city, Trapani, is missing. Badalucco obtained his maturity at the Liceo Classico (Liceo Classico) (Ximenes) in Trapani. He graduated in law at the University of Palermo, for a few years he worked as a lawyer, cultivating, in the meantime, his passion for journalism and cinema. But his aspirations are others: he wants to write. Towards the end of 1953 he moved to Rome, where he worked for thirteen years as an editor in the newspaper "Next!." In 1955, as envoy, he dealt with the assassination by the mafia of the trade unionist Salvatore Carnival, contributing decisively to the arrest of the authors. For this episode he received death threats and was forced to hide and then resume a normal public life at trial. In 2014 he received an award named after Salvatore Carnival. At the end of the 1960s Nicola Badalucco left journalism to dedicate herself to writing screenplays for the cinema and entered through the front door. He writes, in fact, a story entitled "Gotterdammerung" which in the hands of Luchino Visconti becomes "The fall of the gods." The film, released in 1969, was a worldwide success that still lasts; in fact, in 2000 (Festival of the Prose of Salzburg) many European theatres use the screenplay written by Badalucco together with Enrico Medioli and Luchino Visconti, to represent it on stage. Immediately, at the first film, Badalucco was nominated for the Oscar for the best script, but also for the best original story. He works, among others, with Mario Monicelli, Damiano Damiani, Carlo Lizzani, Steno and also with foreign directors. In 1982 he wrote for TV the subject of "La Piovra" (La Piovra), a serial set in Trapani, my city, which over the years has received a worldwide success. In history some unsuspecting figures belonging to the civil society of the city are represented as close to the mafia environments: a heretical hypothesis for those times, which cost him antipathies and new threats of death. Badalucco also taught film dramaturgy at the Experimental Cinema Centre in Rome; he held seminars and conferences at DAMS in Bologna and at various Italian and foreign universities. Among the award-winning awards are the Oscar nominations, the Silver Ribbon in Rome for the film "The fall of the gods of Visconti and the award of films taken from his scripts, in Cannes, Venice, Berlin, Locarno, Taormina and Salerno. Since 1971 he has been a member of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, and has been a member of the jury awarding the Oscar Awards. In 1994 he was awarded the Golden Ephebo to his career. Just a few weeks ago I had the pleasure of receiving his news from a niece who, with an enthusiastic and proud voice, told me about her brilliant career and her remaining, as much as a citizen of the world, deeply linked to her origins and her Trapani. The relationship with his city was not always idyllic, but never for his part did the great love for his origins fail. Remembering Nicola Badalucco today also in this Chamber means paying tribute to an artist, to a committed man, who in his writings and scripts has been able to represent, as few, the lights and shadows of the human soul. Trapani, the whole of Italy, has lost another of his best children. It is our task to bring his memory to future generations. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u53	RICHIUTI (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have just submitted an urgent question to the President-in-Office of the Council on the road situation in the Province of Monza and Brianza. The spending review of these years - in some respects due, for others much less - has dried up the resources available for large-area road maintenance agencies. Madam President, here we are at the crossroads of two very sensitive issues: the one concerning the abolition of the Provinces, to which public opinion attaches significant importance, even legitimately, because they have often given bad proof and have proved to be the refuge of political class; the other relating to the times and ways of that abolition, which unfortunately does not deal with the administrative reality of the country. The Provinces are and remain assigned very important functions that have not yet been clearly transferred to other bodies, such as the provincial police and road maintenance. About the latter, the Province of Monza and Brianza has seen reduced, from 2011 to today, the availability of cash for road maintenance, so much so that by now provincial roads, viaducts and bridges are no longer repaired. Failure to maintain these infrastructures, due to a blind and non-selective saving intent, has the opposite effect. In fact, a dangerous road for motorists exposes the local authority to the action for damages of those who should suffer them and therefore to patrimonial responsibility. Moreover, the extraordinary maintenance (especially of the bridges), which will have to be done sooner or later, costs much more than the ordinary one. Finally, the law of stability for 2015 involves for the Province of Monza and Brianza a further cut of more than 19 million euros, what has led to the paralysis of the maintenance activity on the entire provincial road network, which counts 210 kilometers. For this reason, last May, the provincial council of Monza and Brianza unanimously approved an agenda that asks the government essentially to review the destruction of the cuts in the various Italian Provinces, sharing the resources remaining available on the basis of the actual road mileage present on the various territories and the cargo of traffic that it bears. In the question, I would ask the Council of Ministers to immediately examine the agenda of the Province of Monza and Brianza and to redistribute the funds so that the Province can resume its maintenance activities, protecting both the security of the citizens and the current and future financial sustainability of the management of the institution. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u56	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are sad to note that, at today's date, no reply has yet been received to our question 3-01036 to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance on the situation in which the People's Bank of Vicenza has been presented as a matter of urgency on 14 May, so forty days ago: in the face of urgency! We inform all citizens that: last month the managing director, Mr. Sorato (who had an annual salary of 1.7 million euros and a good exit still to be withdrawn); the resignation of other executives who covered tasks of responsibility, such as credit area and financial area has occurred; we of the 5 Star Movement have deposited an exposed to the prosecutor of the Republic of Vicenza in which we invite the prosecutor itself to investigate multiple hypotheses of crime, ranging from fake in the budget to theaggio, from false social communications to insider trading, to the scam. Scam: an unknown word. "L'Espresso" of last June 5 reports news of further investigations by the Rome Public Prosecutor on loans granted by the Bank to convenience companies and investment funds, which bought or signed shares of the same. In the meantime, several spontaneous committees have been set up in recent weeks to safeguard the rights of small shareholders in Udine, Pordenone, Prato, and others continue to build up, while consumer protection associations are receiving hundreds and hundreds of requests for help from members, who no longer know what to catch. Italian citizens, we repeat some data, just to make you understand what we are talking about and the size of the financial drama we are facing. The members involved are more than 116,000 of the Banca populare di Vicenza and 87,000 for the Veneto Bank: in total more than 200,000 citizens, for a total of blocked assets of more than 8 billion euros, that is amounts similar to an economic maneuver. Recently, the European Central Bank has indicated to the People's Bank of Vicenza the name of the new CEO, while in our opinion there would be a need for an extraordinary commissioner. If the facts reported in the weekly "L'Espresso" were confirmed, it would be a very serious fact. The shares acquired or subscribed by these financial or investment funds should be cancelled and the bank's own resources would accordingly fall in the same amount. In this case, the bank would be in a situation close to the default. After what we assume to be a scam perpetrated with the latest capital increases, with the issue of shares to 62.50 euros and the devaluation of the same to 48 euros a few months later, who will ever sign up for future capital increases to reintegrate the assets? And at what prices? The savings of small shareholders for more than EUR 2 billion and EUR 600 million have literally been burned. For years Banca d'Italia has checked the accounts and sanctioned the management with fines for clearly incorrect behaviour in the management of the bank, but the members cannot know why the minutes have been secreted. This whole secreting thing again. Let's make a couple of names. The former state accountant, Mr Monorchio, is a member of the board of directors and receives EUR 280,000 a year from the People of Vicenza. Mr. Monorchio, have you ever noticed anything? Mr. Falchi (300,000 euros a year), former head of the special secretariat of the then governor of the Bank of Italy, Mario Draghi, with position of adviser for institutional relations, always of Popolare Vicenza, also you, Mr. Falchi, did not notice anything? On Monte dei Paschi di Siena, Carige, Carife, Popolare di Spoleto, Popolare dell'Etruria, Credito Cooperativo Fiorentino, Popolare di Marostica, Banca di Treviso, Banca delle Marche that checks Bank of Italy? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. GIROTTO (M5S). This is quite important, Madam President. Let me finish. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But I gave her time. Anyway, get to the conclusion. GIROTTO (M5S). One minute. Italian citizens have the right to know, as far as Banca d'Italia is concerned, how many inspections he has carried out at Banca Popolare di Vicenza; what were the findings that he has made from time to time to time to directors; what were the reasons for the possible sanctions he has imposed on directors; how much are these possible sanctions; whether he knew that in the budgets the start-ups were greatly inflated, so much so as to affect its assets; whether he knew that the deteriorated claims had insufficient coverage and annually were not sufficiently made the corrections of the case, thus misleading the exercise result then presented to shareholders at the assembly; whether he was aware of the previous points, because he did not inform the shareholders; whether he was aware of the previous points, because he did not intervene blocking the capital increases at inflated prices or authorising them, but at realistic prices; if he believes he does not have to answer because Banca d'Italia does what he wants; if he believes he does not have to answer because Banca Popolare di Vicenza is now under the jurisdiction of the ECB. However, we ask the Ministers whether you think that the Bank of Italy - a body governed by public law and a supervisory body - may not be supervised by a parliamentary committee. Moreover - and I have finished - we ask, as far as CONSOB is concerned, from 2008 to today how many inspections he has carried out at Banca Popolare di Vicenza; if he has ever made observations on the operation of the bank controlled by them; if he has moved, to what they refer; how many prospectuses of the Banca Popolare di Vicenza has authorized; who has cashed; if he considered reasonable the price at which the new shares were offered to the shareholders; if he did not think it appropriate, because he did not intervene. These are all missing measures in the protection of public savings and I remember what the penal code says, article 40, paragraph 2: "Do not prevent an event, which has a legal obligation to prevent, is tantamount to causing it." Madam President, the Five Star Movement and thousands of people who have been swindled will be on the back of all those responsible for these situations, and we hope and hope that Parliament will make all the necessary legislative measures to prevent these disastrous events from happening again. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u57	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-470.ana.u58	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 24 June, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.28 a.m.
