ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:36 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9.40 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u8	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on 31 August the former Senator Luigi De Sena, a member of this Assembly in the 16th legislature, passed away. Born in Nola, he entered the police in 1968 with directing positions at the Treviso mobile team, and then moved to the Rome police station where he led, starting in 1981, the capital's mobile team. From 1985 to 1992 he carried out his professional activity at SISDE as director of the Central Information Unit, to collaborate subsequently with the Criminalpol, coordinating various anti-Mafia operations in Sicily and dealing with the security project for the Jubilee of 2000. In 2000 he became central director of the technical-logistic services of the Department of Public Security of the Ministry of the Interior, and then was appointed, in December 2003, Deputy Head of the State Police and Central Director of the Criminalpol. He held these positions until 2005, when, in the aftermath of the murder of the vice president of the Regional Council of Calabria Francesco Fortugno, he was appointed prefect and assigned to Reggio Calabria, with the task of coordinating the activities of public security and the fight against organised crime. Elected Senator in 2008, he distinguished himself during the parliamentary term for his commitment as Vice President of the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission, as well as as as a member of the Constitutional Affairs and Industry Commissions. During his term of office he put at the service of legislative activity the competence acquired in previous institutional positions, providing a valuable contribution to the debates of the Commissions and the Assembly on issues related to public security and the fight against crime. With the death of Luigi De Sena, therefore, disappears a servant of the State, always at the forefront in the fight against organized crime, which, also by virtue of the excellent investigative qualities and a remarkable experience gained in the field, has represented a valuable reference point for the Republican institutions. The deep knowledge of the Mafia phenomenon and the tools to fight it, the moral rigor, together with the sense of public ethics and legality have constantly characterized his work as police leader, prefect and, last, in the exercise of the parliamentary mandate. Its clear coherence has always been the sense of the State, conscience and feeling that came before and exceeded the same political belonging and logic of contingency or mediation, because for him it was the sense of the State the only acceptable point of equilibrium. In renewing the feeling of affectionate closeness to the wife and family, I invite the Assembly to observe a minute of silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence]] Let us resume the session, once again renewing the feeling of closeness to family members. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u11	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, allow me first of all to greet with affection and friendship Mrs De Sena, the children of Luigi and the relatives who today remind us of the disappearance of a man who has had a long and rich public life, a public life that, together with the many positions of responsibility that he has held, say a lot about his hard professional commitment and his repeated successes. It often happens, however, that the curriculum does not reveal everything about people. This time too, the curriculum is not enough to illustrate a personality with a very complex and profound humanity and to tell us how Luigi De Sena really was, with all his sensitivity, his morals and his ideals. His curriculum vitae illustrates the path of a true servant of the State, as President Grasso reminded us now, and also tells us that he has carried out his work in a way that is not ordinary, not trivial, not routine, but with a rare ingenuity and abnegation in a country like ours, unfortunately still deeply and severely ill with bureaucratic tran tran. De Sena's career has been full of advances and achievements. His work led him to the highest leadership of the State Police, up to the prefecture of Reggio Calabria. It was precisely the whole of his professional qualities and the qualities of wisdom and balance with which he fought the Mafia and exercised his responsibilities as prefect in the very difficult Calabrian reality that brought him to Parliament, by the happy choice of the Democratic Party. In Calabria De Sena represented with consistency and seriousness the State, with all the sacrifices and risks that this mission involved in such a difficult land. Man of State - as you recalled, President Grasso - with a personal trait and a cultural depth proper to a Neapolitan gentleman, Luigi was a serene, cheerful man, very sure of his ideas, but at the same time he was humanly melancholy, thoughtful, full of memories and memories. Intellectual and aristocratic in the political vision, he also had at the same time a popular soul and a great social sensitivity. In short, Luigi was a true son of that extraordinary southern bourgeoisie that for a hundred and fifty years of unitary history so much gave to our homeland in terms of the ruling class, the finesse of thought and cultural solidity. Who was Luigi De Sena, how great the affection and esteem of those who knew him was palpable in the afternoon in which the funeral ceremony was celebrated in his parish. Rarely have I seen such sincere participation, so much general and vast emotion, so much sincere regret of colleagues, friends, of his family, of the many relatives with whom, many, he loved spending the little time of his rest in Amalfi. Luigi De Sena didn't have much of the traditional police officer cliché. Like his other colleagues, like the best men of the State Police, the Carabinieri, the Finance Guard, Luigi De Sena was also deeply in love with his profession. But he interpreted it with a style and a culture of security - an expression he used very often - all of his own. I was a personal friend, as well as a colleague of Luigi De Sena for many years, and I spoke with him very often and I know that he believed in an absolute priority to the social function of the State. He felt that it was a good social policy that was the best, most effective and most prompt method of combating crime and any other form of violation of law. In a word, Luigi De Sena was a vigilant, attentive, strict policeman who had clear how, in defense of the law, the most effective weapon of the State was prevention. De Sena truly believed, with her heart, that the police had to act not as opposed to the citizens, but at their service. If he were here today and if we could ask him to help us understand how to deal with the gigantic phenomenon of mass migration, Luigi would be begging us not to reduce him to a matter of police, a matter of public order. He, a democratic policeman to the very core, would explain to us the civil and political value for Italy and for Europe of a good policy of solidarity and acceptance; he would tell us of the need to help refugees fleeing violence; he would remind us of the need to prevent wars; he would warn us of the dangers of the public debt of the poorest among the African nations; he would tell us to invest resources in the school and civil education of the people that Italy is able to welcome. This was, for Luigi De Sena, the figure of the culture of security. I do one last notation. Although he was a man of value and of deep and vast experience, while being a very educated and mature person, Luigi De Sena, as soon as he entered the Senate, showed that he was very clear that he was called to exercise a high role for him absolutely new. As a great lord as he was, he was a senator with great modesty and great dignity. Like all great personalities, he wanted to listen, he was curious to know, to observe. Listening is a rare dowry in the politics of our time. President, today I want to remind you not only with respect to those who have been senators, to those who have helped the Senate to play its role for an entire legislature, but I want to remember it with friendship and affection. On behalf of the entire Group of the Democratic Party, I also want to thank him, with my heart, for the teaching of life that he has left us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u14	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I consider it a privilege to pay farewell to Gigi De Sena. Doing so here, in this House, revives the memory: it is as if I still saw him sitting there in front of me in the performance of his duties. As far as I am concerned, in fact, participation in the Senate's work was enriched by its attendance, mediated by the presence of common friends, with whom we often had the habit of entertaining, in the margins of parliamentary activity. As you have said, Mr President, the authority and prestige of the roles held has revealed the greatness and moral depth of a person, who never made a different use of those positions and of that prestigious professional path than that of a civil servant, of a servant of the State, diligent and tenacious in action, calmed in ways, reassuring in thought. President Zanda said well: he was humanly melancholy, but of that melancholy that did not open the door to sadness. His was a reassuring melancholy, a calm way of dealing with problems. I believe that the most beautiful testimony of his prestigious professional career, after having carried out his activity within the State Police, climbing all the steps, as central director of the Criminalpol and as deputy chief of the Police, was the task that the then minister Pisanu entrusted to him, in Calabria, as prefect of Reggio. In his speech, in this Assembly, Luigi De Sena said: I left the post of Deputy Chief of the Police to assume the functions of Prefect of Reggio Calabria, a few days after the disturbing murder of the President of the Regional Council of Calabria, Mr Francesco Fortugno. I had no hesitation in accepting that assignment, so much so that after a few hours I was in that territory. A territory obsessed with a violent and relentless mafia, powerful, waterproof and bloody, but also a territory whose population, in the majority constituted by people for good, but perhaps for too long mistreated and therefore by now unbelievable, placed me only a single indispensable "required": the freedom to be, the freedom to work". I believe that Luigi De Sena served the State in the most authentic sense of the term, at the moment when he rose from that territory, which was not his native land, but was the land he served, a unanimous sense of mourning and sorrow for his disappearance, because in that Region, Luigi De Sena, with tenacity and determination, but also with humility and calmness, brought back the State, credibility and trust in the institutions and rekindled the flame of hope in that population, which had been for so long deprived of the culture of legality. I fully share President Zanda's punctual words about the quality of his commitment in and out of the Senate, when he recalls the value that went far beyond the fight against all forms of crime, as can be seen not only from his prestigious curriculum, but also from his speeches and commitments, both in this House and in the anti-Mafia Commission, on public security, on issues of usury and illegal immigration. I believe that Luigi De Sena offered valuable contributions to identify and limit the best antidotes to allow our country to take a substantial step forward towards the culture of legality and a fuller declination of the principles of democracy. Luigi De Sena has gone away, but he leaves to all of us that we have had the honour and privilege to know him and to the whole country the example of a life spent in the service of the country and the best way to honor his memory is to not forget the meaning of his commitment. The lesson of life that also leaves us as legislators is to continue, as far as we know, its commitment in all the places in which it can become an active activity for the culture of democracy. With this thought, on behalf of the Conservatives and Reformists, I express to the family the deep sense of mourning and our closeness, which I gladly extend to the friends of the Democratic Party. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u17	COMPANIES (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, the Senators of the People's Area also remember with great affection the figure of Senator De Sena, whom we met and attended in the last parliamentary term. For me he was something more than a friend, almost an older brother, although coming from a career of the kind that was remembered: very prestigious, reason for honour and pride for the administration of the interior that he had served with such dedication. Luigi De Sena was also an extraordinarily educated man: with me he loved to converse with the classics of the southern question. He had read the writings of my father, Manlio Rossi Doria, Pasquale Saraceno. As it has been said of its sense of the State, in the history of the southern question De Sena was one of those that columned as an indispensable reference term Justino Fortunato and his work...The Mezzogiorno and the Italian State. As in the last pages of the "History of the Kingdom of Naples" by Benedetto Croce, the "Kingdom Sabaudo" was a moment of great passion, of great generosity for the civil elite of the Mezzogiorno. Therefore, De Sena was very fond of the state. He never escaped him, as happens to us to let us escape: first civil society and then the state. No! For De Sena, the State of Fortunato came first, and it was much more important than the civil society of Gramsci, with all the respect that is due to a civil, political and intellectual experience such as that of Gramsci. With De Sena, with that compound irony, we were company in the Anti-Mafia Commission where I had the honour in the last two years to take over from my colleague Gentile called to the government. De Sena and I sat next to each other, exchanging very polite and melancholy comments. He always said that anti-mafia was an expression that did not exist, because it was not that the code should be against the mafia, against corruption and against crime. Then, as some sessions took place in the evening, we happened to talk about football and talk about Naples, because the sessions took place at the same time with some games. In that Commission, ironic of the events of life, De Sena had found Pisanu, who had been his Minister. De Sena was an exemplary Vice President of Pisanu. Rather than flashing, he played his role as Vice President of a Parliamentary Commission in the most worthy and least narcissistic way. He liked to chair to give Pisanu time to make a phone call and examine a document. As my colleague Mr Zanda said with great affection, De Sena had come to Parliament with many titles of competence, but from the first day he understood that this is not (or at least is not above all) the Chamber of expertise, but it is the Chamber of Representation. To be free you must love the freedom of those who think differently. You have to listen. You have to have that somewhat melancholic sense of irony in our traditions. Since I mentioned Giustino Fortunato, I think De Sena would like to be reminded with the sense of irony, apparently melancholic, but strong of his serenity: that of Benedetto Croce and that of Eduardo De Filippo, an author who loved so much. Hence our heartfelt participation in the mourning of family members and our effort, as far as possible, of composure of behavior to honor their memory. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u20	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr. President, I met Luigi when we were teenagers. Our relationship has consolidated over the years, even when we could only hear each other on the phone, living in different cities for the mutual professional engagements. When my group leader asked me yesterday to commemorate Luigi, I had a bike of annoyance and almost rejection, because I never imagined I had to commemorate Luigi. Then, however, I accepted willingly, because I hope to be able to outline, in a few minutes, its salient traits, facilitated by the relationship of friendship, but also by a deep knowledge of its reflective character, attentive, also to the details, and that someone, not careful, mistaken for supposition. Luigi was a man of the State, with great professional qualities, who was remembered, and certainly represented an important figure, a resource for democratic institutions, so much to entrust him, to cite only two examples, the coordination of the security project of the Jubilee of 2000, to which he cared a lot, and then, after the murder of Francesco Fortugno, the task of prefect of Reggio Calabria. At the same time, he was entrusted with the coordination of all public security and counter-security activities to the 'ndrangheta and the responsibility for the implementation of the extraordinary programme for Calabria. A great investigator, as President Grasso recalled, but also a careful observer of social changes, able in any case to suggest appropriate interventions for a correct civil coexistence, in a framework of maximum rigour that allowed him to reaffirm the authority of government in a territory difficult for the presence of a strong, rooted organized crime. Luigi was always open to dialogue; he loved to discuss and compare his ideas with calmness, in a spasmodic search for the best solution for the affirmation of the principle of legality that he has always pursued. I remember the times, during the sixteenth legislature, in which he indicated me possible correctives, both to texts of the government that I represented, and to texts of oppositions, even if of his Group of belonging, without any compromise will, but only so that the norm was functional to its ratio and so that it could fully explain its effects. Its indications resulted in comparisons that lasted even in the following days, because they were not intended to impose their own point of view, but rather turned out to be instruments of research. Of course, it was easier among us, but I also saw discussions with other colleagues on the same method. He had very precise ideas rooted in republican institutions and explained them without taking into account compatibility or political convenience. Just think of when, in 2010, he presented the amendment which reads as follows: "The President of the Republic, during his term of office, cannot be prosecuted for violation of criminal law" or when he presented the bill for the introduction of minimum income as an instrument of control of the 'ndrangheta. That minimum income to which the 5 Star Movement today clings, without remembering its origin, that is, who first had the idea in this Parliament, in this House, by presenting a specific proposal for a law. Luigi by character tended to deepen any aspect of social life. President Grasso, I also remember another episode that concerns our life, when together with Luigi we were in Palermo and went to lunch with Giovanni Falcone. Giovanni and Luigi were very similar, for that search for perfection of the norm regardless of whether it had been proposed by the belonging Group or by an opposing Group; the important thing was that the norm had its own functionality. This was very close to us, because when we were kids we always reasoned that the state is something we have to believe in. And when Luigi joined the police, he longed for it. He had chosen his own business and, since his father's brother was the Chief of Staff of the Carabinieri's Army, he was terrified that someone might think he was a recommended man. Luigi has put his whole life at the disposal of the State in those forms of activity that he believed were useful for the fight against crime: a fight that was based on respect for constitutional guarantees and to be carried out through the real search for tools that could create consensus in public opinion. It is with this spirit that, remembering also his smile, I embrace his family - from his children, to his wife, to his brothers - together with the whole Group of Forza Italia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u21	He asked the government representative, Deputy Minister Bubbico, to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u22	Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Government to pay tribute to Luigi De Sena, who was a great servant of the State, and to express closeness to his family. The various interventions carried out have remembered the figure of this man, signaling his high competence, the sense of duty and the effectiveness in the management of the assignments that have been attributed to him, from deputy head of the Police to prefect antimafia in Reggio Calabria. Luigi De Sena was an extraordinary man, who was able to continuously express great competence, great sensitivity and great humanity. He was the bearer of a high vision of politics and public functions. I was lucky enough to know him and to attend him and I find myself in everything that has been said by my colleagues in this situation. Luigi was a great man, who always knew how to distinguish the function of representing a political part from the function of protecting and defending general interests. He's never been a partisan. I have often benefited from your advice and your assessments in the short and common experience in the Industry Commission. For this reason, I want to witness to the family all affection and admiration, giving recognition to the man and servant of the State. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u23	In renewing the feelings of closeness and condolence to the family by the whole Assembly, I briefly suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 10:18 a.m. and resumed at 10:27 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u26	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I have a duty to inform you of what happened last night at the sitting of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. This is a very serious matter, which calls into question the possibility of free exercise of parliamentary action by Members of Parliament, that is to say by us Members of Parliament and Members of this House. During the discussion of the issues concerning Mr Billardi, which I think will be discussed shortly at the already scheduled session on the authorization of the arrest of the colleague at the request of the competent court, there was a very serious episode of intimidation by Mr Giarrusso against Mr Fucksia. Since my colleague, Mrs Fucksia, expressed an explicit and obvious dissent during the report by my colleague Mrs Pezzopane (and no subsequent intervention can alter what was seen and noted by the members of the Council during the sitting), Mr Giarrusso rose from his desk, went to my colleague, Mr Fucksia, and, with intimidating action, tried to change his views on the issue of Mr Bilardi. Now, we are called to express ourselves in particular on matters of great delicacy, such as the deprivation of the freedom of colleagues (although at the request of the judiciary). We are called to very delicate decisions, which cannot be influenced either from the outside or from within the Senate. That my colleague Mr Giarrusso should approach my colleague Mr Fucksia, who is expressing dissent on some issues, and, by intimidating her out loud, tell her, "Come out" and want to change her attitude, it is a very serious fact that I cannot pick up and that I put to her attention, because this intimidating action has changed the reports within the Council on the decision that was previously called for. Mr President, if this happens on matters of political importance (it has already happened in this House: there have been intimidating actions to prevent the exercise of the parliamentary function, in particular for the vote of confidence, as you will recall) it can also, to some extent, be accepted; but it cannot be accepted in such a delicate function as that carried out by the members of the Council. I would like to put this question to your attention because it is clear that there is a need for the development of behaviour and, if necessary, it is not to be overlooked the competence for sanctions which must be taken into account either by the parliamentary institution which you represent at the highest level or by the external judiciary.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u27	The Presidency takes note of what you have represented and will request a report on these facts from the President of the Council. Anyone who wants to take the floor can do so, but I would like to open a discussion and debate on the report that the President of the Council is going to make to the Presidency. That is my intention to stigmatize the facts. For me, as President, the report is the basis on which to start. Anyone who wants to intervene can do so, of course, but bearing in mind what I have already said as an intention about the procedure to be followed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u30	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, given the seriousness of the incident, I merely confirm what Senator Buemi said, since we have all been eyewitnesses to this episode (with the involvement of an authoritative colleague, Nico D'Ascola, for his part): in a continuous way, Mr Giarrusso also prevented Senator Fucksia from hearing what was said, raising his voice to the point of threatening her by saying "come out." We immediately raised the problem, it is not that we noticed it a posteriori, when the senator changed the vote; we protested immediately asking the President to speak because it is not possible for a member of the Council, while speaking another colleague, to be intimidated in this way. I imagine that if this were to happen in a court of law, it would lead to the arrest of those who carry out this intimidating action. I therefore simply intervene to say that what Senator Buemi denounces is exactly what happened, until the change of voting attitude, after a dramatic meeting. I understand that, after the explanations of vote, everyone speaks freely in relation to the guidelines, among other things, on an issue which, when examined in this House, will interrogate each of us. We are, in fact, talking about an issue that can involve every senator, that is, the reporting of what is given to the collaborators: according to the interpretation of my colleague Pezzopane, those 2000 euros reported could be a large public sum on which arrest can be requested, because on that every senator could make a peculate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The substance of the matter is then left to the next debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u33	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, by accepting your invitation, together with the decision, that I think it is appropriate to ask for a report from the President of the Junta on the basis of which we can then express ourselves more broadly, I would like to confirm what Mr Buemi and Mr Giovanardi have said. I would add that a body which performs such a delicate and particular function as the Election and Immunity Council must also be free from any appearance of intimidation and coercion of the vote. It is therefore appropriate to deepen the disgusting episode.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u36	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I cannot confirm what has been said, because I was not present, because my Group is not represented in that Junta. I welcome your decision to have the President of the Junta carry out a comprehensive and detailed report in this House, which highlights what really happened and also the spirit of an election committee which, beyond the merits of the issues and beyond the form to be respected, must maintain its own serenity of judgment, because this is the guarantee of the institutions. If something this serious has happened - and we await confirmation from the President's report - I am sure you will then want to deal with the way in which democratic institutions can respond to it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u39	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly, convinced that Senator Giarrusso does not need to defend the President of the 5 Star Movement Group, just to say that I am very pleased with the way in which you have dealt with this situation. I just want to point out that perhaps certain accusations come from those who are accustomed to such practices. We are simple citizens and those who listen and observe us know how we behave; so I reject everything to the sender. We are also pleased that you will pay attention to this report, because that accusation will probably be overturned. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Okay, but let's not create anticipations anyway.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u40	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1963, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Verducci, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur. 10:36 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u41	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the subject before us is the ratification of the bill, already approved by the House of Deputies, which concerns the June 2014 Association Agreement between the European Union, its Member States and Ukraine. We know that Ukraine is one of the key countries of the Eastern Partnership and that this association agreement has significant importance in the process of bringing these countries closer to the European Union. These association agreements are fundamental instruments, which allow us to overcome a minimal approach, of mere cooperation, while aiming at a gradual relationship of political association and economic integration. This agreement is in a very difficult context, with dramatic implications: that of the crisis in relations between the European Union and the Russian Federation, which must be followed very closely. We must press for every effort to be made to resume dialogue and political confrontation with Moscow, with the aim of overcoming the conflict and the rupture of that international order which has been marked by the events of Crimea and which, even today, is marked by a very serious instability in the Donbass region. I would also like to mention one aspect that is certainly important in our work: the Foreign Commission of the Senate has recently given a great deal of attention to the issue of the Eastern Partnership, by approving a document, a resolution, on the new European Neighbourhood Policy. The European Neighbourhood Policy is a very important EU document, which is subject to consultation. Our Foreign Commission, on the input and will of President Casini, in the resolution adopted, unanimously wanted to call for a thorough review of this European Neighbourhood Policy, while stressing just how essential - I quote - the subject of this morning, namely that close and systematic confrontation with Russia which has not always been fully deployed, as in the case of the partnership agreement with Ukraine, concluded without taking into account the legitimate concerns of the Russian Federation. It is precisely in this sense that the resolution itself responds to a request from the European Commission and, in particular, from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Mogherini. In our resolution on the European Neighbourhood Policy we also wanted to call for a very strong change, a rebalancing of the Mediterranean, a focus on Mediterranean policies in the face of the ongoing international crisis. We therefore strongly called for the overcoming of the Dublin Regulation and the integration of the European Neighbourhood Policy with foreign security policies and the immigration agenda. This is the context within which we call for the approval of this association agreement, which is part of the new generation agreements for the gradual integration of Ukraine into the Union's internal market, for closer cooperation on political dialogue on human rights, justice, security, sustainable development, public finance and energy, with the aim of increasing the free trade area until Ukraine is included in the European single market. I want to stress that this is an agreement which, in strengthening bilateral relations, calls on Ukraine to have a real agenda for reforms, insisting on areas of cooperation, not only between parliaments, but also between their civil societies and on the reform of public administrations, on industrial, maritime, fisheries and agriculture policies. All this will have very important economic implications, first of all for Ukraine, which is estimated to benefit considerably, with a significant increase in gross domestic product of more than 6% and exports of EUR 1 billion. These benefits will likewise be achieved by the economic, manufacturing and industrial system of the countries of the European Union. I conclude by pointing out that the draft law is very careful to deepen the political dialogue for a gradual and significant convergence of the areas of foreign policy, the common security and defence policy, insisting on the prevention of international crimes, on the subject of justice, freedom and security: an important act, therefore, which, in this spirit, we ask the House to approve. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u42	As you have not been included in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply, I inform you that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in an annex to today's Report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u45	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I rise briefly to declare the North League's vote against this ratification by recalling what happened during its approval in the House. On that occasion, on June 11 of this year, it was decided with a temporally wrong choice, which had the strong taste of political provocation, to schedule the examination of the agreement just as our country was visited by the President of the Russian Federation. We realize that in the end this agreement should still have been approved in the House House, but it was voted on precisely on the days when people made public profession of wanting to relax their souls. This helped to confirm the aura of duplicity that is often associated with our international political conduct. That scheduled vote in those days was, in fact, interpreted by some Russian observers as a disrespectful diplomat and further complicated the attempt to sew. We are also concerned about the direct costs that this operation will have on the European economy and, in particular, on the Italian economy, given the precarious conditions in which the Ukrainian finances and the productive apparatus of that country are located. For these reasons, the Group of the North League will vote against this ratification. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u48	COMPANIES (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I rise to announce the vote in favour of the People's Area Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u51	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to say that the SEL component of the Mixed Group will abstain on this ratification. On a sensitive issue such as this - we have already told the House - where this ratification has already been approved, as Mr Verducci pointed out a few months ago - we would have preferred a somewhat less hasty and a little more thorough discussion, because we are very concerned about the fragility of the Ukrainian political framework, the difficulty of the Ukrainian institutions to actually produce a completed democratic transition. Over the course of all these months we have always said, and we continue to think now, that Ukraine must have a zipper role and should not represent an even deeper fault that is digging between a part of Europe and the East. We believe that Europe should have facilitated this kind of path. We think that everything must be done to avoid, even in the months to come, returns and war hypotheses by promoting all possible diplomatic solutions. For these reasons we would have preferred a less rapid and less hasty path and, therefore, we believe that it is correct for us to vote in abstention on this ratification.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u54	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I share some of Senator De Cristofaro's statements because - in our opinion - the time devoted to this important ratification in our Commission has been very little. I remember - and I also have a note - that we spent about thirty minutes discussing the text in two sessions (the first on 7 July, when the report was carried out, and another on 23 July, when the President's communications were made). I repeat what I have already said in the Commission in this House. I have noticed that in such a treaty benefits to the State of Kiev are mentioned as an increase in GDP, which will be downstream of the Treaty itself, by about six percentage points. And all this happens in the light of a political and military situation in that area, which is quite worrying. We asked for explanations, but in fact there was no clarification. It is clear that, in our view, the Treaty before us has far more shadows than lights, and that is why I am voting against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u57	AMORUSO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to announce, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, the vote in favour of this measure, with a very brief explanation of vote, because I believe that this House should not vote on the basis of the work done by the House of Members. We have our autonomy, we make our own assessments, we look at the text that we are voting on, and we believe that the problems, also expressed by my previous colleagues, are still valid. However, for us this is an act of attention towards a country that must understand that the path taken is certainly not the correct one. The way forward is to open dialogue, solve problems, while, for the European Union, it is to consider the Russian Federal Republic as an important partner, for European policy, in all international scenarios. The preamble to this measure states, inter alia, that Ukraine must implement the political, socio-economic, legal and institutional reforms necessary to give effect to the implementation of this Agreement, but Ukraine is lacking in terms of the process it is to undertake. We therefore want to give a signal of attention and, at the same time, stand firm on the positions of a proper relationship with the Russian Federation, which we consider an essential and founding partner for the European Union and Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u60	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u61	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u62	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1750. The rapporteur, Senator Corsini, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u63	Mr President, this House is called upon to examine the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation signed in 2013 between the European Union, its Member States and Mongolia. The agreement - already ratified by Mongolia - aims to consolidate relations and political dialogue with the Asian country through a partnership of wide strategic scope, with particular reference to the sectors of trade and investment, sustainable development, education and justice. The agreement, which goes hand in hand with that already in force in the field of trade and economic cooperation, will provide a legal framework for strengthening sectoral cooperation with a country with considerable strategic potential, in addition to its relations with China and Russia, which will also be more integrated into the world economy and regional and international cooperation. The text, which consists of 65 articles, divided into nine titles, defines first the nature and scope of the agreement, including a commitment against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, for the full operation of the International Criminal Court and in the fight against terrorism. Titles II and III lay down rules for bilateral, regional and international cooperation and sustainable development respectively, including the introduction in Mongolia of common European standards and standards, the commitment to deepen cooperation within regional and international organisations, as well as strategies to promote human, social and environmental development. Title IV aims to strengthen trade relations, improve the multilateral trading system and allow better conditions for access to their markets. Some articles are devoted to customs cooperation, incentives for investment flows, the application of competition rules and the opening up of procurement markets. In the context of cooperation on justice, freedom and security, Title V deals with migration, the fight against drugs, the fight against organised crime, corruption and the financing of terrorism. Title VI regulates cooperation in other areas, including financial services, industrial policy, scientific and technological cooperation, energy and the environment. There are also rules on financial cooperation instruments, including a commitment from the European Investment Bank. Finally, Title IX sets out the final provisions of the Agreement, providing for an evolutionary clause for the possible extension of the scope of the Agreement, rules for the fulfilment of obligations, for territorial application and for the entry into force and duration of the Agreement. The draft law ratifying the Agreement consists of four articles which have, respectively, the authorization to ratify, the order of execution, the entry into force and the financial invariance clause. It should be stressed that the agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, with Community law and with other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, it is proposed that the Assembly approve this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u64	As you have not been included in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply, I inform you that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in an annex to today's Report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u67	COMPANIES (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Alleanza Popolare Group's draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u70	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I declare the M5S Group's vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u73	MARAN (PD). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the PD Group's draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u76	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u77	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u78	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1829. The rapporteur, Senator Zin, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u79	Mr President, the Assembly is called upon to examine the bill of ratification and enforcement of the agreement signed in August 2014 between Italy and the Eastern Republic of Uruguay, aimed at enabling the members of their diplomatic missions and consular representations, as well as delegations to the Holy See, to carry out work. The agreement is drawn up on the basis of a standard model and follows those approved recently with Brazil, Argentina and Chile. The text aims to strengthen diplomatic relations between Italy and Uruguay, facilitating the participation of the diplomats' family members in the social life of the country that hosts them, without thereby failing the institutional role that they are called to play as family members of the accredited staff. The agreement, composed of 8 articles, also extends to the family members of the representations accredited to the Holy See. It applies to unseparated spouses and dependent children aged between 18 and 26 and to disabled children, regardless of age. Articles 2 and 3 define the authorisation procedures in Italy and Uruguay, in almost similar ways. Articles 4, 5 and 6 respectively lay down the applicability of local tax, social security and labour legislation and the non-applicability of civil, administrative and criminal immunities for the pursuit of employment. Articles 7 and 8 regulate how disputes may be resolved in the interpretation or application of the text; the entry into force; the duration and possibility of termination of the agreement. The draft ratification law consists of three articles: the authorization to ratify, the order of execution, the entry into force. The application of the measure does not result in any charges or lower revenue charged to the State budget. In conclusion, Mr President, it is proposed that the House approve this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u80	As you have not been included in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply, I inform you that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in an annex to today's Report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u83	COMPANIES (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the People's Area Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u86	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I declare the abstention of the 5 Star Movement Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u89	MARAN (PD). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the PD Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u92	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u93	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u94	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1964, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Fattorini, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u95	The bill, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, brings Italy's accession to the 1961 United Nations Convention on the reduction of cases of stateless persons, to which 63 countries have joined so far, including 20 Member States of the European Union, including the United Kingdom, France and Germany. Apolidia, that is the condition of an individual without nationality and that no state considers as its own citizen, is a phenomenon often underestimated, but that still excludes many people from being able to benefit from fundamental fundamental rights. Although the right of the human person to nationality is recognised as fundamental by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the 1997 European Convention on Nationality, it is estimated that there are about 600,000 cases of stateless persons in Europe, while in Italy there would be at least 15,000 stateless persons or at risk of stateless persons, mostly young people, born and raised in Italy, often belonging to the Roma and Sinti communities from the former Yugoslavia. The Convention under consideration provides that States Parties shall ensure that citizenship is acquired automatically at the time of birth, by means of a provision of law or by means of an application from the person concerned. The Italian law, recognizing ex lege citizenship to children born in its own territory, who would otherwise be stateless, is already in line with one of the options set out in the Convention and does not require adaptation provisions. However, our country has so far ratified only the Convention on the status of stateless persons of 1954, and not even the 1961 Convention. A possible accession would allow to introduce in the Italian law a further legal obligation of international importance, strengthening the legal transparency and predictability of the guarantees and procedures put in place by Italy in the matter of the prevention of apolidia, following commitments made at international level. The Convention, composed of 21 articles, aims to ensure the right of every person to have a citizenship, including the right of every child to acquire one. It lays down rules on the acquisition, waiver, loss and deprivation of citizenship and provides for a number of measures to be implemented by the acceding States, which I would like to illustrate. More specifically, Articles 1 to 4 introduce measures to avoid the apolydia of minors, in particular through the attribution of solitary citizenship to those born of stateless parents or nationals of States who do not apply ius sanguinis, and through the attribution of sanguinis of citizenship to those born abroad. Articles 5, 6 and 7 lay down a series of measures to avoid apolicy due to loss or renunciation of their nationality, affecting the loss of citizenship to the possession of another nationality. Articles 8 and 9 lay down rules to avoid apolicy due to deprivation of nationality, while Article 10 introduces provisions to avoid apolicy in the context of the succession of States, providing for the obligation to regulate the citizenship of persons involved in transfers of territory from one State to another. Article 13 provides that the application of more favourable national provisions in this field shall not be affected, whereas subsequent Articles 14 to 17 lay down rules on disputes and the application of the provisions to the State territories. The draft law of ratification consists of four articles which have, respectively, the authorization to ratify, the order of execution, the clause of invariance of finance and the entry into force. The agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, with Community law and with other international obligations entered into by our country. It is also in line with the provisions of the Council of Europe conventions on the nationality of 1997 and the prevention of cases of stateless persons in relation to the succession of States in 2006. In conclusion, it is proposed that the Assembly approve this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u96	As you have not been included in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply, I inform you that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in an annex to today's Report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u99	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, it is with particular pleasure that I welcome the fact that my first speech in this House as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs takes place on this issue. After the report by the rapporteur, Mrs Fattorini, so broad and very clear, I would like to point out that, in accordance with Article 1 of Law No 91 of 5 February 1992, the basic principle on which the acquisition of Italian citizenship is based is - as we all know - basically that of ius sanguinis, i.e. the transmission of citizenship by descendants. The accession to the Convention will entail for Italy the further legal obligation of international importance, of which much has been debated in the past legislature, to provide for the sole attribution of citizenship to those born of stateless parents or nationals of States who do not apply the principle of ius sanguinis, and the attribution of sanguinis of citizenship to those born abroad. It is, therefore, the introduction into our legal system of a principle that today constitutes an exception to that of the uniqueness of citizenship, since it applies only in certain specific cases, such as that of foreigners descended from Italian ancestors emigrated to countries in which the principle of ius soli applies. In this way, the children of our migrants would be guaranteed the maintenance of the link with the country of origin of the ascendants, which should be considered the measure also in a perspective of respect and protection of the rights of children, which - I am thinking of children and adolescents - are particularly dear to the activity of our Group. Children and adolescents are the weakest link in a chain that we have seen unfold in all its drama in these days that we call emergency, while they are probably a new frontier with which we will have to relate in exchange, which is not only cultural or social, but fundamentally geopolitical, with masses of people who come from countries with strong turbulence and who call Europe to its main duty, as born and constituted to maintain peace. This is precisely what reminds us of the application of numerous treaties, including the Geneva Declaration of the Rights of the Child of 1924 and the most recent Convention on the Rights of the Child and Adolescence adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1989. Our Group has repeatedly called for measures to be taken to protect vulnerable and vulnerable people, particularly by means of motions. One of these, which we will face in the coming weeks in this House, is dedicated to the ongoing tragedy of Boko Haram and to the tragedy (which seems less tragic, but is not at all) the subject of the great and heartfelt appeal made by the President of Tunisia Essebsi, who declares the country's emergency state and asks for help to counter forms of terrorism that threaten Tunisia and other countries, including ours. Through the instrument of the motion we also draw the attention of the Government and of European and international partners, as well as of non-governmental organizations, given the considerable pressure they have to exert at world level, on the information relating to some brutal practices now implemented in too many areas of the planet against minors. As always, it is minorities, women, children and disabled people who are more easily and brutally exploited, in countries where the intensity of armed conflict has reached extreme levels, with a disproportionate and intolerable impact on these categories. In particular, in its expansion campaign ISIS does not scrupulously train, use and, in cases of necessity, kill even children, recruited by preachers and attracted by the martyrdom that jihad offers. In recent months this phenomenon has taken on particularly dramatic dimensions. Among the lines of these dramatic atrocities it becomes impossible not to recognize a lucid and complex radicalization program aimed at the youngest and most fragile minds, therefore projected to the future to forge the next generation of jihadist terrorists. That's the point. As we advance on this ground, we put in place a possible safeguard clause with respect to the recruitment of young people, because the phenomenon that we face by approving the act of the Senate in question is linked above all to the potential supply - let me say this bad term - in that segment of possible young people who can embrace the cause of Islamic terrorism or terrorism tout court. In this context, it seems essential for us to create the conditions to promote a real integration into the social fabric of the country in which these young people were born and those minors who, otherwise, might be in a sad condition of not being recognized as their own citizens by any State. However, we do not hide and it is our duty to highlight possible implications that would distort the primary purpose of the Convention, and we must flee from them. We do not wish, in fact, that with this ratification we are preparing the ground for the indiscriminate granting of Italian citizenship also to those minorities who do not have the concrete, sometimes even minimal, intention to enter productively into the social and economic reality of our country, and that therefore - according to us - should not legitimately aspire to the acquisition of the status of Italian citizen. But today, in living and facing this emergency, we must first of all remove lifeblood from the possible recruitment in our country that uncontrolled immigration can favor and heal a legal and legal condition. Our Group will vote in favour of the adoption of this act, and all together we are preparing to adopt a text which excludes at least the risk of a very dangerous phenomenon for the safety of Italian citizens from this point of view.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u102	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, as far as this measure is concerned, we believe that it is also theoretically acceptable, because the situation of stateless persons, when it does not result from the response to a crime, is indeed an unacceptable violation of human rights, precisely the choice of times gives rise to some doubts and suspicions in us. In fact, in the explanatory report it is clearly written that the problem of the stateless person in our country is mainly identified with the Roma. We do not want, therefore, that with this statement we are now preparing the ground for the indiscriminate granting of Italian citizenship to all the Roma who move on our territories. We hope, instead, that the premise is being created for a policy that aims to ask all our partners to identify, as their citizens, the Roma originating in their own country. However, there is another and further sensitive aspect of the issue that we consider worthy of mention. On the table, in fact, there is not only the issue of the Roma, which Romania unilaterally Europeanised in 2007. The problem of stateless persons also concerns certain Member States of the European Union itself, particularly the Baltic Republics of Latvia and Estonia, which have denied citizenship to the elements of Russian-speaking minorities since 1991 who have not agreed to learn the official language and history of the State. This situation is clearly incompatible with the basic rules of European Union law and should be somewhat correct. Therefore, although it is theoretically in favour of ratification of the Convention, the League will also vote against it, since we are very concerned about the steps that will follow, for the reasons I have expressed earlier. We fear, in particular, the prospect that from this provision may one day descend an undisclosed concession of the citizenship of our country to the Roma, which we cannot and do not want to accept. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u105	COMPANIES (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this measure by our Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u108	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I would like to say that the 5 Star Movement Group is abstaining and I would like to stress the fact, already highlighted by others, that we are ratifying the accession to an agreement that has now been signed. It is almost a paradox: it would appear that the first stateless person is this Convention which, after more than fifty years, finally finds our attention. In fact, we would have preferred a revision of the laws already in force in Italy, which in fact prevent the recognition of citizenship, and, among them, also of the single text on immigration. I therefore confirm our Group's abstention vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u111	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, a number of reasons should have led both the Commission and Parliament to adopt this bill. The first is certainly the figures: we are going to ratify a Convention signed in 1961. It is clear that, from 1961 to today (which is perhaps also the average age of the Members of this House), international conditions have changed a great deal, and that in order to be able to assess whether this Convention should be ratified, as stated in the article, Sic et simpliciter. Among other things, there is a lack of information in the article on the possibility or discretion which the Convention itself entrusts to the Contracting States. Therefore, we do not know, in ratifying the Convention, what the attitude of the Italian State will be regarding these discretions. On the other hand, it would have been appropriate, and I would like to say right, to point out to the House the intention to carry out certain activities provided for in the Convention. Having said that, it is clear that this is a 1961 Convention and today the conditions have completely changed. It would therefore have been more appropriate for this ratification, in addition to being better specified in the legal framework, to be discussed in a debate that has already been announced in our parliamentary classrooms and which concerns all the very sensitive issues of citizenship, ius sanguinis and ius soli. Therefore, after fifty-four years, I find absolutely out of place the proposition of ratification of a Convention which can also commit Parliament to a debate that is still to be held. For these reasons, without wanting to remove anything from the rights of certain subjects, and above all of the weakest children, we shall abstain on the ratification of this Convention, which, among other things, is not yet ratified by important states, such as the United States of America and Spain. There will be reasons why, in 54 years, the Convention has not been ratified by us, as some important states have not yet done. Clearly, the United Nations should update the text of the Convention to today's reality. Above all, we, who are very exposed on this front, should give more thought than convey in our order, as often happens, in the form of ratification, rules on which perhaps some might disagree or might propose amendments. It really seems to me to be a very shallow way of working, so we will abstain. [[Applause from Senator Alicata.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u114	MARAN (PD). Mr President, I rise to announce my Group's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u117	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u118	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. This is an absolutely important vote, because after fifty-four years we have joined a Convention: I wonder if there is no statute for treaties. The Convention, where approved, entered into force in 1975. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u119	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1660. The rapporteur, Senator Compagna, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u120	Mr President, the agreement aims to promote cooperation between the two countries in the field of education. The agreement on education was necessary because the relationship between Italy and China found a serious gap in the lack of equalization of qualifications. Except for some bilateral agreements between individual Italian and Chinese universities, there has been - and this is a gap, as the Italian university is mainly state-owned and the Chinese university itself - an agreement between states. The agreement consists of a preamble and nine articles. Article 1 identifies the scope of validity by establishing that the target groups are universities, polytechnics and institutions of high artistic and musical education. From this point of view, I shall propose a coordinating amendment, because the term "university" also includes the qualifications awarded after completion of university, and therefore postgraduate degrees. The list of the academic institutions involved is expressly indicated in two Annexes, the A for the Italian and the B for the Chinese part. According to Article 3, students holding the final qualification of higher secondary education may be admitted to a university institution of one of the two countries in accordance with the provisions in force in the host country and according to the availability of the places. The same article also provides that students who are graduates of secondary schools in which the language of the host country has been taught for at least three years are exempted from the tests for the verification of linguistic competence, as well as from the quota of places reserved for foreign students. It was the problem that always upset our university for foreigners in Perugia. Articles 4 to 6 govern the recognition of qualifications issued by Chinese university institutions in Italy, providing that these certificates allow the registration of university courses at first level, subsequent levels and the PhD in Italian universities. The competent authority to assess the equivalence of certificates and examinations carried out shall in any case be the responsibility of the host university institution. Article 7 gives holders of a university degree obtained at an institution of one of the two countries the right to acquire such qualification in the other country. The following Article 8 provides for the establishment of a standing Joint Committee of experts for the implementation of the understanding. The draft ratification law consists of four articles, which provide for the authorisation of ratification, order of execution, financial coverage and entry into force. The economic burden has been quantified in EUR 2180 every other year, starting in 2015. I have already pointed out that a technical coordination amendment has been adopted in the Commission. The agreement does not present any profile of incompatibility with national law, Community law and other international obligations entered into by our country. Hence my suggestion to the House to approve this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u121	As you have not been included in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply, I inform you that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in an annex to today's Report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u122	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u123	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,100, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 3 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u124	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u126	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I am voting against the 5 Star Movement Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u127	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u129	MARAN (PD). Mr President, I am voting in favour of my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u132	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u133	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u134	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1659. The rapporteur, Senator Compagna, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u135	Mr President, the purpose of the agreement is to ensure a relationship between the armed forces of the two countries, developing and regulating their bilateral cooperation, with the aim of consolidating their respective defensive capacities. There is no shortage of possible repercussions in some important productive sectors and bilateral relations in the cultural, scientific and commercial fields are strengthened. It is recalled that Azerbaijan is a member of the Euro-Atlantic Partnership, i.e. that forum for consultation and dialogue between NATO and some of its external partners, as well as a signatory to the NATO Peace Partnership Programme since 1994. It is also a country that occupies an area of great strategic and political importance, and is one of the main exporters of hydrocarbons, with strong repercussions on economic relations with Italy. The agreement consists of a short preamble and nine articles. Article 1 specifies that bilateral cooperation will be governed by principles of reciprocity, equality and mutual interest, in accordance with the legal systems of the two countries and with their international commitments. Article 2 identifies the areas of intervention and the modalities of cooperation, specifying that it will take place on the basis of annual and multiannual plans, that the organisation of activities will be of relevance to the respective Ministries of Defence and that it will be possible to organise possible consultations of the representatives of the parties, to be held alternately in Baku - where is the delegation led by my colleague Divina, who may speak about it these days - and in Rome. Among the areas of cooperation are political-military cooperation, research and development of defence products and services, humanitarian operations, training and military health. There are also reciprocal visits of delegations and training staff, as well as participation in military exercises. Article 4 addresses the issue of jurisdiction and establishes the right for the host country to judge the hosted personnel for any crimes committed on its territory, except for crimes committed against internal security, its assets or committed in connection with the service. It is also envisaged that an agreement should be reached to safeguard the staff concerned in the event of penalties provided for in the host country contrary to the fundamental principles of the State of origin. The following articles govern cases of possible compensation for damage caused by staff in relation to the service rendered. Finally, Article 8 sets out how the text of the agreement can be amended or revised. The draft law of ratification is composed of only five articles in respect of these nine articles, which summarize respectively the authorization to ratify, the order of execution, the financial coverage, the clause of invariance of expenditure on public finance and the entry into force. The economic costs shall relate to any official visits and operational meetings between their delegations. In the Commission, a technical amendment was approved which moved the initially planned cover for 2014 to 2015. There has been no evidence of incompatibility with national legislation, Community law and other international obligations. Hence the Commission's proposal to the House to approve this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u136	As you have not been included in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply, I inform you that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in an annex to today's Report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u139	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking to announce my Group's vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u140	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u142	MARAN (PD). Mr President, I rise to announce my Group's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u145	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u146	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u147	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u149	Mr Albano (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 5 September 2010-5 September 2015: five years have passed since the murder of Angelo Vassallo, also known as the mayor fisherman of Pollica. I would like to remind you of his courageous, stubborn and incorruptible figure as administrator. He has paid with his life his commitment against the ecocomaphies and those responsible for his killing have yet to be brought to justice. It is precisely the courage, love for the institutions and the territory of Vassallo that must be an example for all citizens and administrators, a most necessary example of good politics. With this Government we have finally approved harsh penalties against the eco-reactors, but only a work of widespread education among the population will put a stop to the eco-afies that kill both in a bloody way - as happened to the mayor fisherman - and in a sneaky and slow way, causing tumors and degenerative diseases. Angelo Vassallo also owes the UNESCO recognition of the Mediterranean diet among the oral and intangible heritage of humanity, a medal for our Italy, which has the honour to host this year the International Expo dedicated to food. Our country needs many Angelo Vassallo, citizens, administrators and politicians with a straight back, able to face with strength and moral honesty the challenges that the fight against legality imposes on us for a better Italy, a more just Italy, an Italy that loves and respects its territory and the health of Italians. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u150	The Presidency joins in remembrance and thanks you.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u153	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for a moment's attention. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u154	Colleagues, the session is continuing. The hemicycle is not the recreational circle of senators or former senators. Anyone who wants can go out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u155	[[Brusio]] They keep going on forever. Colleagues! BOTTICS (M5S). I would like you to pay some attention, because what I am about to highlight is manifested daily in these classrooms. Last year we voted on a fiscal delegation on which the government asked for more time, because it had not yet made all the legislative decrees. On some decrees he exercised an abuse of delegation that no one gave him and others he forgot. Yesterday five legislative decrees arrived at second reading. Let me give you just one example: on Legislative Decree No 183, which is what reform the sanctioning system, sixteen pages of opinion have been written by the Justice Commission and the Finance Commission because that text is written with its feet. The government sent it to the Chambers on September 9th and we only have ten days available. If we consider that this afternoon there will be a short sitting and that Friday, Saturday, Sunday and Monday we do not work, we will have very few days to evaluate this legislative decree together with the others. I therefore ask that, when the legislative decrees are presented, there be an obligation to work in the Commission for ten days, that is, for the maximum time available to the Commissions, otherwise unnecessary work is done and continued with the mockery of the work of Members. It is not possible: the opinion is not binding, the text is delivered on the last day, it is not known whether the dossier is ready or not! The government then does what it wants, but takes on its responsibilities. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u156	Senator Bottici, in order to achieve a result, I suggest you take the same considerations also in the Commission, which is where you should do it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u157	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u159	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, days ago, during the episode of the television show "Porta a Porta" the President of the Council, Matteo Renzi, announced that the President of the Republic, Sergio Mattarella, on his next trip to the United States, will bring to the attention of President Obama the story of our compatriot, the Trentino Chico Forti, currently in prison for life in the United States. In many parts, in recent years and especially in recent months, public opinion has been strongly calling for a review of a trial that has many obscure sides about the way in which it has come to the sentence. As President Renzi himself pointed out, given our legal system, there would certainly have been all the extremes for a review of a process that, on the other hand, in the case of Forti has never been granted. I would also like to stress the extraordinary dignity and full confidence that Forti has always shown in respect of American justice, an attitude that is honorable to him and which is one more reason to try all the ways necessary to obtain the review of the trial. I would also remind you that, a few months ago, a motion tabled by myself and signed by several colleagues in the Senate - which I invite all my colleagues to submit - was filed in this similar to one, approved by a very large majority by the Chamber of Deputies (which unified the texts of Mr October, Mr Corda and others), with which the Government undertook to assume, in every place, any initiative of competence, aimed at protecting the citizen Enrico Forti, as several times previously the Italian Government has considered to have to do, in defense of other fellow citizens condemned and detained abroad, also considering the fact that the Italian State maintains excellent diplomatic relations with the Government of the United States, which have led, even recently, to the solution of controversial judicial cases. Therefore, Mr President, I believe that it would be an institutionally significant fact for this branch of Parliament too to examine and approve as soon as possible the motion that has been tabled, because it would give further strength to an affair probably of legal civilization and the protection of one of our compatriots, on which I do not believe there should be any political diversity, but the whole strong support of all the figures and all the institutional groups, just as the sensitivity shown in this regard President of the Republic is there to emphasize. President Senator Panizza, I believe it is also useful that, through his Parent Company, the calendarization of this motion is called for at the Conference of the Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u160	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u162	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, since the day it was set up, the bicameral Committee on Children and Adolescence has been carrying out many cognitive investigations into the complex and delicate universe of minors, some of which - such as the one on the right of minors to benefit from the artistic and cultural heritage and on child prostitution - are still under way, with the cycles of hearings continuing regularly, despite the organizational problems that have occurred. Others concluded, such as that on child poverty, with a final report, which was presented on 30 June. Others, however, have recently been deliberated, but for apparently inexplicable reasons they have stranded after the first hearing. I am referring to the survey of children out of the family, which I proposed as Vice-President of the Commission, for which, after the first hearing in May, the second hearing was postponed until 23 October. This is an unacceptable delay, for a cognitive survey that has the noble objective of acquiring certain data on the number of children present in the family houses and to be aware of the modalities used in the placement operations. I have also addressed the oral question to Mr Orlando on this last matter in the Commission on justice 3-01932, for which I would like to ask a reply which is still late. Similarly, I would like to reply to another written question of mine, the 4-04295, on Airone ONLUS, a body that seems to be still operating in the sector, although it is directly involved in the international adoption scandal in Kazakhstan, on which many of us (even the North League Group) have submitted questions that have not yet been answered. I therefore hope to have these answers soon. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-502.ana.u163	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 11.50 a.m.
