ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u4	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u7	Senator Barani, I have to put the Minutes to the vote, after which you will be able to make all the possible reflections.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u8	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I would like to speak on the Minutes. I am, among other things, the Senator Secretary who has read them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Barani has the right to do so (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI). Mr President, this morning, when I checked the minutes and the votes that were taken, I realized that in a vote last night there must have been a failure in the electronic system, because during the verification of the quorum - you know, Mr President, that last night the quorum was 148 and the senators present were 148: so we were precise - Senator Rossi Mariarosaria was present, but she was not present in this House. It appears that she requested a quorum check, but the senator never appeared in the other votes. D'ANNA (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)). There's cheating! Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). There was therefore a defect in the electronic system, which allowed the presence of the quorum to be recorded, because otherwise last night the quorum would not have been there. I would like this to be recorded.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u9	What you said will certainly be recorded, but the remarks you made relate to yesterday's afternoon sitting, while we are voting on the minutes of the afternoon sitting of that same day, as you read. I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u10	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u11	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9.40 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u12	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1779, already approved by the House of Deputies. The reporters, Senators Lo Moro and Chiavaroli, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Lo Moro.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I realize that the report on the Multi-pronged Decree-Law could be a bit boring, so to avoid, among other things, extending in an inappropriate way, I put it in writing and I will read it very quickly. Today the Assembly is examining the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 192 of 2014, extending legislative terms, already approved at first reading by the Chamber of Deputies. This is the decree that the Government adopts, normally at annual intervals, in order to ensure the efficiency and effectiveness of the action of the various administrations concerned in the presence of the expiration of time limits provided for by statutory provisions, obviously of terms that it is considered necessary to move in order to allow the achievement of the objectives worthy of protection not achieved in the pre-established terms. With regard to the content requirements of the decree-law, I recall that Article 15 (3) of Law No 400 of 1988 provides that the decrees must contain measures of immediate application, and their content must be specific, homogeneous and corresponding to the title. The decision of the Constitutional Court n. 22 of 2012 has evidenced that this article, although not having constitutional rank, constitutes explicitation of the implicit ratio in the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, which imposes the connection of the entire decree-law to the extraordinary case of necessity and urgency. In the same judgment - it should be emphasized - it is also assessed consistent with the presuppositions for the issuing of decrees-laws an urgent necessity of providing that concerns a plurality of norms united by the intention to face extraordinary, complex and variegated situations that require objectively heterogeneous interventions, therefore pertaining to different subjects, but addressed to the sole purpose of preparing urgent remedies to extraordinary situations come to determine. Moreover, I recall that according to the same judgment n. 22 of 2012, the so-called decrees thousand extensions, and here we are in the presence of a decree of this kind, although they adhere to different and heterogeneous material fields, must obey the unitary ratio and intervene urgently on the expiry of terms whose course would be detrimental to interests deemed important by the Government and Parliament, or affect existing situations, even if related to different objects and subjects, which require regulatory interventions of a temporal nature. The Decree-Law under consideration, which expires on 1 March, was examined by the Committees on Constitutional Affairs and the Budget which concluded their work at yesterday's afternoon sitting. In view of the imminent expiry of the constitutional terms for the conversion to law, it was not possible to make changes to the text as it came to us from the Chamber of Deputies, where it remained for much of the useful deadline for the conversion, of 60 days. The Government, however, during the examination in the referent, expressed its willingness to accept (and accepted) many agendas presented to the Commission by senators of various parliamentary groups, especially of opposition. Turning to the content, this is a measure consisting of 15 articles, to which five new articles have been added during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies: it provides for the extension of time limits relating to a plurality of matters. In the context of the matters covered by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs (and also the previous premises of course contained arguments typical of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs), Article 1, which extends time limits in the field of public administration, in particular paragraphs 1 and 2, which extend to 31 December 2015 the deadline for the recruitment of permanent staff in specific public administrations in relation to terminations in the years 2009 to 2013. Paragraphs 3 and 4 extend by one year the recruitment authorisations for the years 2013 and 2014 adopted, for the security-defense sector and for the National Firefighters Corps, by way of derogation from the turnover percentages indicated by the legislation in force. Pursuant to paragraph 5, the resources for the extended recruitments for which it has not been submitted, by the date of entry into force of the decree-law under consideration, special request to the competent administrations, will be used for the mobility of the personnel of the Provinces, following the law n. 56 of 2013. The following paragraph 6 provides that the Provinces may, as proved necessary, extend fixed-term employment contracts until the end of 2015. In these last two paragraphs, these are legislation that is useful to enable the Provinces to face this transition phase. In paragraph 7, fixed-term employment contracts are extended to 31 December 2015, with an expiry date of 31 March 2015, concluded by the Italian Drug Agency (AIFA) for the assignment of managerial functions. Paragraph 8 extends for one year the deadline for the completion of the insolvency proceedings initiated by the Customs and Monopolies Agency and the Revenue Agency for the recruitment of second-class managers. With paragraphs 8-a and 8-b, introduced by the Chamber of Deputies, the temporal effectiveness of certain rules for limiting the expenditure of tax agencies, provided for by Decree-Law No. 78 of 2010, is extended from 2015 to 2020. Paragraph 9 allows the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism to carry out, in 2015, recruitments by way of derogation from the block provided for by Decree-Law No 95 of 2012, limited to specialized professional profiles. Paragraph 10 concerns the staff of the National Firefighters' Corps, placed in command position or out of place in the constitutional bodies, at the offices of direct cooperation of the Ministers and at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. In particular, the forecast that expenditure on such staff will be borne by the administrations of the Member States shall be extended. In the course of the examination to the Chamber of Deputies has been added paragraph 10-a, which extends to 31 December 2015 the deadline within which the new rules on career progression of the management staff of the National Corps of Firefighters, as well as paragraphs 11-a and 11-b, enter into force. The first provides that, in the mores of the transfer to the Lombardy region and the autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano of the state functions relative to the guide of the Stelvio National Park, the term of the mandates of the president and the director of the Park is extended from 17 February 2015 to 31 May of the same year. The paragraph 11-b, in turn, extends to the 30 june 2015 the commission of commissioner liquidatore of the Fund management contractual institutes harbour workers, in compulsory administrative liquidation. Paragraph 12 deals with the issue of the so-called insecure of justice, a subject very much warned and concerning thousands of people, delaying to 30 April 2015, the date of conclusion of the periods of refinement granted to those who had already completed a training internship at the judicial offices. The initial deadline was 28 February but very appropriately the House had it slipped to 30 April. The provision made by paragraph 12-a - also introduced by the Chamber of Deputies - provides that the Regions may extend fixed-term contracts until the conclusion of the respective stabilisation procedures. The new paragraph 12-b extends to 31 December 2015 the provisions that allow the Regions to make use of personnel, through the extension or conclusion of new contracts, in order to ensure, with a continuity nature, the regular conduct of the activities pertaining to the National Service of Civil Protection. Paragraph 12-c, also inserted by the Chamber of Deputies, extends by sixty days, for the year 2015, the time limits related to the procedure of controlling the political party statements. Secondly, it extends the deadline for parties to submit requests for access to tax facilities to 31 January 2015. The substance of the legislation introduced by the new law, which has eliminated the public funding of the parties, is therefore to be found. Article 2 of the Decree-Law intervenes in terms of administrative justice. In particular, it is postponed until 28 February 2015 the deadline within which the Government must submit to Parliament a report on the organization of the TAR and a consequent plan of reorganization that individuals, possibly, even for offices to be abolished - it has been attempted the suppression at other times and today it is a matter of identifying the seats to be suppressed - and is extended to 1 July 2015 the obligatory subscription with digital signature of all the acts and the measures of the judge, its auxiliary, the staff of the judicial offices and the parties. The new paragraph 1-a, again in the matter of administrative justice, reopens until July 30, 2015 the terms of the procedure that allows local authorities to request the Ministry of Justice to restore the office of the judge of peace, of which moreover under regime it is previewed the abolition. Article 2-a, inserted by the Chamber, provides, for 2015, an increase in the measure of wage integration treatment relating to so-called defensive solidarity contracts (agreements, concluded between the employer and the trade union representatives, aimed at avoiding the reduction of staff). Article 2-b, which was also introduced in the course of the examination in the other branch of Parliament, extends the transitional rules for the examination of qualifications in the exercise of the legal profession by two years: this is also a very long-awaited extension from the huge audience of aspiring lawyers. Article 4, paragraph 1, extends for the year 2015 the application of the procedures provided for by Decree-Law n. 314 of 2004, concerning the discipline for the dissolution of the Councils of the local authorities for failure to approve the forecast budget within the time limits and the allocation to the Prefect of the relative substitute powers. Paragraph 2 provides for a further extension of the deadline for the adaptation of tourist accommodation facilities with more than 25 beds to the fire regulations. Paragraph 3 extends by one year the time limit for the use of available resources on special accounts in the name of the three Provinces of Monza and Brianza, Fermo and Barletta-Andria-Trani. Paragraph 4 extends to 30 June 2015 the deadline within which it is allowed the use of security guards on board merchant ships flying the Italian flag that transit into international waters, in defense of the same from acts of piracy, even if they have not attended the planned technical-practical courses provided by law. Paragraph 5 provides that the Provinces that at the date of 31 December 2014 have not yet approved the forecast budget 2014 must provide within the deadline of 28 February 2015. As you can see, these are terms that do not always concern state or government activity, but often territorial authorities and subjects of the territory. Paragraph 5-a, introduced by the Chamber of Deputies, contains some provisions relating to the reconnaissance and repartition of the experimental fund of rebalancing and to the determination of non-taxed erarian transfers for the year 2015, to be paid to the Provinces belonging to the Region of Sicily and the Region of Sardinia. The new paragraph 5-b provides for the repartition between the Provinces and the metropolitan cities of the reductions of current expenditure required to these institutions in implementation of the provisions of containment of public expenditure provided for by the law of stability for 2015. Paragraph 5-c intervenes on the discipline, provided for by the 2014 law of stability, for local authorities that are in financial difficulties likely to cause them to fail, allowing, in certain cases, to propose the procedure of multiannual financial rebalancing provided for by the single text of the local authorities. It is true that there is intervention on a recent legislation on the law of stability, but in reality the objective is not to leave out of the benefits of the legislation that we have come to approve communities that would be penalized perhaps even for responsibilities of administrators. Paragraph 6 provides for the extension of the plan of operational use of a maximum quota of 3,000 personnel belonging to the Armed Forces, for the control of the territory, also in relation to the extraordinary security requirements connected to the realization of the Expo Milano 2015. The new paragraph 6-a extends to 31 December 2015 the time limits within which the management in associated form of the fundamental functions of the small municipalities becomes mandatory, an extension strongly requested by the territorial authorities that are encountering difficulties to agree the associated form of the services. Paragraph 6-b extends by six months the period of entry into force of the provisions which also allow nationals of States not belonging to the European Union, provided that they regularly stay in Italy, to use replacement declarations, limited to the states, personal qualities and facts certifiable or attested by Italian public entities. Articles 5 and 6 of the Decree-Law contain extensions of time limits for cultural goods and education respectively. In particular, Article 5, as amended by the Chamber of Deputies, extends to 30 September 2015 the deadline, provided for in the Italian decree-law destination, that the municipalities must respect in order to obtain the financing of the projects for the tourist attraction, also in view of the Expo 2015. In addition, it extends to 31 December 2017 the activities of the Foundation of University Studies and Advancement on Tourism, extending them to the field of cultural goods and activities. Finally, it provides for the adoption of the new statute of the Foundation, which takes the name "School of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism." Article 6 provides for the extension of the time limit for the elections to the Higher Education Council, which was to take place at the National Council of Education, and for the postponement of the time limit within which the opinions of the National College of Education are not to be considered to be due. Paragraph 3 allows students enrolled in the academic year 2014-2015 at the institutions of high artistic, musical and coreautic formation to benefit from certain prizes and extends to the academic years 2014-2015 and 2015-2016 the possibility to draw on the national rankings exhausted for the assignment of teaching assignments in the AFAM institutions. Paragraph 4 further extends the term for the requalification and safety of state schools (for our Government it is a priority), as well as for the reliance of the same works in the Regions in which measures to suspend procedures have taken place, following litigation. The paragraph 5- bis postpones to 31 December 2015 the term of duration of the powers delegated to the mayors and presidents of the Provinces, who operate as government commissioners, for the implementation of the interventions of requalification and safety of the state educational institutions. The paragraph 6 extends to 31 March 2015 the deadline for the indication of the first national course-competition for the recruitment of school managers, provided for the needs to cover vacancies in the Regions in which the ranking of the 2011 competition has been exhausted. The new paragraphs 6-a and 6-b contain provisions on school collaborators, providing for the extension to 31 December 2015 of the conventional relationships in existence from the provincial school office of Palermo, and the activation of a table of confrontation between the administrations concerned, the local authorities and the representative organizations of the workers in order to find normative or administrative solutions to the employment problems connected. The last paragraph of Article 7, to which I refer, contains extensions of health-related time limits. In particular, paragraph 1 extends to 30 June 2015 the deadline for the implementation of the minimum organisational, structural and technological requirements of transfusion services and blood collection units, laid down by the agreement established on 16 December 2010 by the State-Regions Conference; however, despite the time spent, it was not possible to achieve the objective. The paragraph 2 and the new paragraph 2-a amend the discipline on the reorganization of the association of the Italian Red Cross. The news propose the postponement to 1 January 2016 of the transfer of functions from the current association, under public law, to the new association, previewed from the legislative decree n. 178 of 2012 as association of private law. They also specify that, in the establishment of the contingent of active personnel in active service of the Military Corps, a reserve of posts in favour of the personnel in service as of 31 December 2014 shall apply. In addition, they provide that the extraordinary rules referred to in Article 1 of Law No 190 of 2014, on mobility procedures inherent to the staff of the metropolitan cities and provinces, also apply to the staff of the Italian Red Cross. That concludes the report on the articles within the competence of the first Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the rapporteur, Senator Chiavaroli.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u14	Mr President, I will give an explanation of the articles within the competence of the Budget Committee, and I will refer the rest to the general considerations put forward by my colleague. The articles within the competence of the Budget Commission are Articles 3, 3-a and 8 to Article 14. In particular, Article 3 lays down rules for the extension of time limits for economic development. In paragraph 1, the deadline from which only DVB-T2 television sets are to be sold is extended to 1 July 2016 instead of the current DVB-T technology. Paragraph 2 extends the terms of the procedures for access to the tax credit for the realization of interventions for the ultra-wide band provided by the decree unlocks Italy. This is an important rule, clearly, which seeks to facilitate access to the network throughout the national territory, thus eliminating the digital divide that penalizes investments in some disadvantaged areas of our country. Paragraph 3, then, extends for a further year the prohibition of cumulation between participations in telecommunications and publishing companies. The paragraph 3-a, added by the Chamber of Deputies, extends to 30 September 2015 the deadline within which must enter into operation, in order to be admitted to the incentive tariffs, the photovoltaic systems entered in the register of the Manager of energy services and in a position such as to fall within the incentive volumes for the purposes of the fifth Energy Account to be realized in areas affected by disasters in the years 2012 and 2013. Paragraphs 3-b and 3-c concern, on the other hand, the extension of the time limits for intervention in the event of non- tendering for gas distribution. Paragraphs 3-d and 3-e, on the other hand, extend the reference dates for obligations related to the placing of natural gas on the market. The paragraph 3-f confirms for 2015 the financing granted for the extension of 24 months of the Integration Fund extraordinary earnings for cessation of activity, in order to allow, in the course of the same 2015, the management of the redundancies of personnel relative to the year 2014 and also increases of ulterior 55 million euros the maximum limit of expenditure already previewed. Article 3-a then reads as follows: Provisions concerning the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises It suspends until 31 December 2015 the effectiveness of the rule that has extended to companies up to 499 employees the audience of the beneficiaries of assistance from the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises. Article 8 shall include: - extension of time limits for infrastructure and transport. In paragraph 1, the deadline for issuing the ministerial decree in the matter of combating abusive services of taxi and rental with driver and of issuing the licenses for the activities in question is extended at the end of 2015. The paragraph 2 extends the deadlines relating to the Fund unblocks yards, provided for by Decree-Law No 133 of 2014. Paragraphs 3 and 3-a provide respectively to postpone the payment of advances of 10 per cent to contractors and to allow an advance of 20 per cent for the work entrusted in 2015. In addition, paragraphs 3-b and 3-c provide for the postponement of the aggregation obligations for the acquisition of works, services and supplies in municipalities not the capital of Province. In paragraph 4, a further three months are granted for the issuing of the decree concerning payments to be paid to ANAS for the purpose of authorising the opening of new accesses. Paragraphs 5 and 5- bis postpone the time limits for the introduction of the revision of agricultural machinery and the approval for its use. Paragraph 6 differs the terms of the ministerial decree on the training of drivers in self-consorted schools. Paragraph 7 brings the deadline for the conclusion of programme contracts for airports of national interest to 11 November. Paragraphs 8 and 9 extend the rules on the qualification of general contractors. Paragraph 10 extends the deadlines for updating and revising motorway concessions by four or six months, including through the unification of interconnected routes. According to the new deadlines, by 30 June 2015, instead of 31 December 2014, dealers will have to submit to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport the modifications of the concessionary transport and the new economic-financial plan, while by 31 December 2015, instead of 31 August, an additional act or a new unitary agreement will have to be concluded. Paragraph 10- bis allows a suspension of evictions for final lease of 120 days. Article 9 extends the terms on the environment and provides to allow for 2015 the disposal in landfill of waste with high heating power to paragraph 1; to postpone the term of the calls for safety of the territory to paragraph 2; to postpone the application of the legislation on the tracing of waste (the so-called SISTRI) to paragraph 3; to extend the government's replacement posters for the adaptation of sewage and purification plants to paragraph 4. The Chamber of Deputies has also inserted an extension of the term of organization of the seminar on radioactive waste to paragraph 4-a, as well as of the municipal management of waste in Campania to paragraphs 4-b and 4-c, and of the provisions of civil protection for the area of Genoa Cogoleto to paragraph 4-d. Article 9-a extends the investigation commission for the integrated environmental authorisation until the new components are taken over, which will be appointed by a subsequent decree. Article 10, which is the largest, extends the economic and financial deadlines. In paragraph 1, the deadline for carrying out the activities of the Agency's liquidating commissioner for the performance of the 2006 Turin Olympic Games is extended to 31 December 2015. In paragraph 2, the deadline for the adoption of the decree of the Ministry of Economic Development is extended to 31 December 2015, with the aim of determining the taxation of fuels used in co-generative plants. Paragraph 3 extends to 31 December 2015 the end of the application of the discipline of the financing operations or of other kind of the Bank of Italy carried out in order to satisfy, even indirectly, the liquidity needs of the banks, that are guaranteed by pledge or transfer of credit. In paragraph 4, the deadline for collective investment savings undertakings to take all organisational and management measures necessary to comply with the provisions of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive is extended to 30 April 2015. In paragraph 4-a, added in the course of the examination to the Chamber of Deputies, the term relating to the performance of the activities of cooperative companies that grant financing, in any form, exclusively towards their members is extended from December 31, 2016 to December 31, 2018. Paragraph 5 extends to 31 December 2015 the maximum limit set for the payment of allowances or other utilities by public administrations to the members of bodies still denominated and to the holders of positions of any kind. In paragraph 6, the provisions relating to the containment of expenditure for the purchase of furniture and furnishings by public administrations are extended for 2015. Paragraph 7 extends for 2015 the blocking of the automatic adjustment of passive rental fees for buildings conducted by public administrations as well as by independent authorities and CONSOB. Paragraph 7-bis, inserted by the Chamber of Deputies, intervenes on the destination of the contribution assigned in 2015 to the Regions in the framework of the discipline of the so-called vertical incentive pact. Paragraph 8 differs from 31 December 2014 the term until which the suspension of tax, contribution and insurance obligations is applied for private employers and self-employed workers operating in the territory of Lampedusa. Paragraph 8-bis, added again by the Chamber of Deputies, postpones for one year the simplifications relative to the elimination of the obligation to submit the unified VAT return and the communication of VAT data, previewed by the law of stability for 2015. Paragraph 9 introduces amendments to the resources to be used - with reference to the tax period following the one in progress at 31 December 2014 - for the implementation of the safeguard clause provided for to cover the charges resulting from the sterilization of the increase in excise duty on fuels. Paragraphs 10 and 11 provide for the extension of certain accounting provisions, which allow state administrations to exercise certain flexibility measures in the management of State budget expenditure appropriations. Paragraph 11-bis, introduced during the examination to the Chamber, postpones the introduction of the secondary municipal tax from the year 2016 (instead of 2015). Paragraphs 11 -ter and 11 -quater provide, for the Emilian areas affected by the 2012 earthquake, the suspension of the payment of soft loans for a period not exceeding 12 months for those who have contracted soft loans to provide for the payment of taxes, contributions and suspended premiums due from 1 December 2012 to 15 November 2013. Paragraph 12 integrates, with specific forecasts for the Ferrovie dello Stato SpA group, the provision that has provided, for the companies with total direct or indirect participation of the State, a reduction of operating costs in the measure not less than 2,5 percent in 2014 and 4 percent in 2015. The paragraph 12 -bis disposes the use, also for the year 2015, of a share of the revenues - in the same limit of 5 million euros, already fixed for 2014 - deriving from the transfer to the budget of the State of the leftovers of management achieved from the fiscal agencies in the years 2012 and 2013, for the strengthening of the structures of the financial administration and for the financing of the activities carried out from CONSIP in the within of the Program of rationalization of the purchases of the public administrations. Paragraphs 12 -ter and 12 -quater delay the entry into force of the amendments to the discipline of the requirements of the tax assistance centres-CAF. Paragraph 12 -quinquies allows taxpayers who have fallen from the payment of tax debts to benefit from a new plan. Paragraph 12 -sexies provides for the payment of the replacement allowance of the military companion also for the years 2015 and 2016, while paragraph 12 -septies carries the financial cover of the expenses deriving from the implementation of the previous paragraph. The paragraph 12 -opties, introduced in the examination by the Chamber of Deputies, extends to 31 December 2017 the tax incentives aimed at the return of workers to Italy. Paragraph 12 -novies extends from May 15, 2015 to December 31, 2015 the deadline within which the tax credit recognized for every employee engaged indefinitely in the areas of the Mezzogiorno can be used in compensation. Paragraph 12 -decies extends to the financial year 2014 the provision that excludes, for the municipality of L'Aquila, the application of the sanctions provided for in the case of non-compliance with the Internal Stability Pact. Paragraph 12 -undecies, introduced during the parliamentary examination to the Chamber of Deputies and accompanied by a broad debate, extends for the whole year 2015 the provisions on tax benefit for youth entrepreneurship and workers on the move, as well as the regime of the pre-existing minima upon the entry into force of the law of stability for 2015. Paragraph 12- duodecies provides that, until 2017, 100 percent of the largest sums collected by the municipalities in the action to combat evasion will be granted to the municipalities. Paragraph 12- terdecies extends from 30 March to 30 April the annual deadline within which the ANCI must communicate to the Ministry of Economy and Finance the amounts in reduction and increase of the objectives of the Pact for the Municipalities that manage in associated form functions and services. Paragraph 12- quaddecies eliminates the doubling of the terms to issue the act of contestation for the violations from fiscal monitoring in the procedure of voluntary disclosure, with reference to the Countries of the so-called black list that conclude agreements with Italy in order to allow an effective exchange of information. Paragraph 12-dddecies provides for the validity of the regulations and tariff decisions on TARI, adopted by the Municipalities by 30 November 2014. It is also expected that the municipalities, which have not acted on this matter, will collect the Tariff by applying the rates in force for the year 2013. Paragraphs 12-edecies to 12- undevices intervene by relaxing certain penalties provided for certain cases of non-compliance with the Internal Stability Pact by the Regions, in relation to the year 2014. Paragraph 12-vicies provides for the postponement to 31 December 2017 of the execution of the tax claim against the person obliged to pay, the outcome of a criminal procedure defined by a judgment prior to 1 April 2010. Paragraph 12- vicies semel, introduced during the examination to the Chamber, provides for the extension of one year, up to the whole of 2015, of the provisions in favour of the municipalities of Venice and Chioggia to which some of the sanctions previewed for the non-compliance with the Internal Stability Pact do not apply. Paragraphs 12- vicies bis and 12- vicies ter provide for the postponement of the deadline for submitting the application to the INPS, with reference to the case in point of the pension treatment framework for workers exposed to asbestos. Article 10a extends time limits in the field of social security. It has been inserted by the Chamber of Deputies and reduces, for the three years 2015-2017, the measure of the pension contribution rate for some members of the so-called separate INPS management and the corresponding rate of calculation of the pension treatment. Article 11 extends time limits for emergency measures. In paragraph 1, extension for 2015... [[Call the president back.]] Mr. President...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u15	You have already consumed 40 minutes of the 30 at your disposal. You have, therefore, already overtaken by 10 minutes. Focus your exposure to the max, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u16	Mr Chiavaroli, rapporteur. All right, Mr. President. Article 11 extends the time limits for emergency measures. Article 12 extends the tax regime for renewable energy sources from agro-forestry and photovoltaic sources, as well as fuels from plant production. Article 13 extends rules on national sports federations. Finally, Article 14 extends contracts for the provision of services. For the details of the paragraphs mentioned in the last articles, Mr President, I would ask for permission to hand over the remainder of the report so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u17	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u18	Mr President, we are faced with yet another thousand-pronged decree. As I said in the Commission during the debate on constitutional requirements, since we are faced with a so-called government of innovators, it would have been appropriate to innovate in this field and at least to try to reduce to the bone the end-of-year carriage of milleproroghe. It is clear to everyone that, from the point of view of the presuppositions of necessity and urgency provided for in Article 77 of the Constitution and in the light of the most recent judgments of the Constitutional Court in this regard, we are not faced with these presuppositions precisely because the so-called thousandprorogations decree is continually repeated and is considered the instrument of the end of the year to cover - and this is the other aspect - inefficiencies of the public administration, of the previous governments and of the current one also in applying the rules themselves. The presuppositions of necessity and urgency do not exist, because the instrument of the decree is used in a continuous and systematic way as a kind of loophole to fix all the errors committed with decrees-laws and previous laws. I could give a lot of examples, but I would like to mention only one, that of unlocking Italy in order to further favour the motorway dealerships. In this case, too, a decree-law is in place, which has led a great deal to debate and on which a constitutional judgment before the Constitutional Court depends, in order to continue to adjust and to give further possibilities of applying and violating European rules. Furthermore, there are no requirements laid down in Article 77 of the Constitution as regards the homogeneity of content. It is clear to everyone from the very title of the measure that its content is totally uneven and heterogeneous. For the disorganicity it is sufficient to scroll through all the articles, paragraphs and modifications introduced by the Chamber to the decree-law. The time limits for public administration in the field of staff and management tasks are extended; the topics relating to the TAR and administrative justice are addressed; the economic development of companies producing digital tuners retailing and the daily newspaper publishing companies are addressed. It also contains matters within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior concerning the replacement powers of the prefect on the approval of the budgets of local authorities; matters relating to the extension of the use on board Italian ships of security guards, as well as the extension for the presentation of the budgets for the so-called suppressed Provinces that have not taken place by 2014. There will be a further intervention on the Expo with regard to tourist reception and provisions on education are included, application of the extraordinary plan for the call of teachers of the second group; health provisions from the Red Cross to the distribution chain of the drug; Italy also unblocks with regard to the extension of public works, of which I have spoken before; environmental provisions regarding the transfer to landfill, in violation once again of European regulations; and the extension of the calls for tenders for the custody of hydrogeological risk mitigation works the simplification of SISTRI. And I could go on much longer. The only question on which there was indeed an urgency to intervene, and was not originally contained within this decree-law, is the extension of the blockade of evictions. We have spoken in the Chamber of Deputies, but with a fake extension, because they are propaganda four months, but - in fact - the extension is only until the plan enters into force and, therefore, in fact, until 31 March. This was indeed the only matter of urgency and would therefore have been consistent with Article 77 of the Constitution. It is, therefore, a combination of speeches which clearly denounce misuse, arbitrary and absolutely contrary to Article 77 of the Constitution of the decree of urgency, in disregard of Parliament's prerogatives. Mr President, I would like to say something very clearly. Today is Thursday and - as I always say - trust is usually placed, as we will know in a few minutes. With the Renzi Government we have really reached the records of the trusts and also of the decree of urgency (yesterday we have presented a dossier on this matter). It is clear to everyone - here is an issue on which, in general, we should present a preliminary question of constitutionality - that today we are faced with a complete reversal of the relationship between Parliament and the Government, in which the government initiative is, in legislative terms, absolutely predominant. I would like to point out that only 1% of Parliament's draft legislation comes to pass. I repeat: 1%. Everything else, practically, is a governmental initiative, and the decree of urgency is the part of the lion, with a continuous and repeated use and abuse as regards both its presuppositions and the unevenness and non-organicity of the arguments themselves. We are told the fairy tale - we heard it, even from Paris - that the decree of urgency and trust are used to cope with obstructionism. We have even reached the preventive threat of recourse to the urgent decree - as is the case, for example, of the announced decree-law on RAI - by virtue, perhaps, of a hypothetical possibility of obstruction by oppositions. We have come completely to the distortion of reality and, in the specific case of the one thousand-pronged decree, it is clear to everyone - as I have been able to demonstrate in this intervention, there is absolutely no prerequisite for compliance with Article 77 of the Constitution on the urgent decree. In defiance of Parliament's prerogatives, the decree-milleproroghe law represents, among other things, a total denunciation of the inefficiency of the public administration and the inability of the Government to manage with criteria, certainty and correctness the administrative machinery of the State. For this reason, I ask you not to proceed with the examination of the decree-law. [[Applause from Senator Mussini's Mixed-Sele Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u19	He asked Senator D'Anna to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u20	Mr President, more than for a legal explanation, I am speaking to give an explanation to this House. I already predict the outcome, but it is right that, before voting, people know what they vote for, according to the famous motto of Luigi Einaudi: knowing to deliberate. Well, as a former representative of a large trade association, I must make you aware of the fact that in this decree-law, in addition to the violation of Articles 102, 113 (infringement of a judge), 3 and 24 of the Constitution, there is a repetition of a rule that the administrative judge considered admissible as temporary, considering it to be ill-determined and absolutely in violation of the law governing the matter. We are, therefore, in the condition in which thousands of health facilities, accredited to the National Health Service, are paid at rates that have not been drawn up according to legal criteria, but that are considered in force and still valid, with great damage to the employment levels and the quality of the health services rendered to the user, having that standard a life limited in time (two years), and that it would have to expire on 31 December 2014. It should be borne in mind that this matter, for 19 years - I repeat 19 years - has been left to free will, having never wanted any government to determine the criteria and methods by which to indicate the rates of remuneration of health benefits. Although a commission has been planned and set up, pursuant to the so-called Balduzzi decree of 2010, that in 6 months - I repeat: 6 months - should have produced these criteria - I do not say the tariffs, but the criteria by which to determine then the relative rates of remuneration, in constancy of the quality of the benefits - it has produced nothing but the record of settlement. We therefore find ourselves, on the one hand, with a State providing identical benefits, with costs four, five, six, ten times higher and, on the other hand, with a sector that is remunerated at a predetermined rate. And after 19 years there is no time to determine which criteria are most suitable for determining the exact cost of benefits. This is a classic example of statism: what is managed in the name of the State enjoys rights and illegitimate privileges, which are considered normally in use, because it is the State itself that determines the production of these activities. This also applies to organisational requirements: I have repeatedly denounced in this House that 80% of state-run health care facilities are deprived of the decree of opening and functioning provided for by law, i.e. they do not have the minimum requirements required by law to provide those benefits. If this happened in a non-state structure, the NAS would shut them down and report them to the owners. Therefore, the state sector delivers performance without the minimum requirements laid down by law, technology, structural, instrumental and organizational. On the other hand, while on this side of the barricade, in the name of the superior ethics of the ends, we pay five, six, seven, eight times more; on the other hand, we find neither the time nor the way to give a correct determination of the criteria by which a tariff must be identified to pay the accredited section. I wonder whether a citizen can have different quality guarantees for the same performance; whether there can be a competitive system where the state, cynical and cheating, is allowed not to meet the same requirements or not to comply with the same laws and, on the other hand, the other competitor is cut by 35%, tout court and without explanation, the fees of remuneration, repeating within the thousandproroga the existence of what the administrative court has accepted because considered transitional. I understand that you will vote by majority. One cannot stop the milleproroghe for a few tens of thousands of structures and a few hundred thousand operators who have the infamy mark of the so-called private, and can also fail. If someone pretends to pay, there will also be someone who pretends to work and maintain quality standards. In the most absolute carelessness, I would like to draw the attention of the President of the Health Commission - I recall that he is drafting, together with Minister Lorenzin, the Magna Carta of the new health revolution - on the fact that, if the criteria for the correct remuneration of benefits are not determined, these are a fetish, because we allow thieves to steal. We have a figure, which is called a State, which in twenty years has failed to determine the criteria for paying back what, rightly and legitimately, is qualitatively suitable to be paid to the sick and to those who use the Health System. I see in this Chamber Senator Formigoni, to whom it must be noted that he has been made to pass for what he is not, because in his region, once a year, the criteria are determined and the quality of the performance is guaranteed. In other parts of Italy, on the other hand, there is the instrument of statism: everything that the State does must be done in contempt of economicity and quality and, therefore, also of the law itself. You, therefore, today extend for another year the license to cheaters to continue cheating and, for another year, extend to the State the license to provide benefits without requirements, which will cost you up to ten times more. If this is no reason for unconstitutionality and you will vote according to party discipline, then you must not be surprised that the Italian health care, especially from Rome down, is a client coach that does not work. Perhaps this too is functional to that state-centric clientelism that sees doctors, paramedics and nurses that pabulum from which to draw votes at the expense and on the skin of citizens. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u21	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u24	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again, as previous senators have pointed out, discussing a very regrettable matter, not just for this part of Parliament. And I use a deliberately subtle expression, because the considerations that follow will not be such. We are at the twenty-eighth decree-law, whose requirements and conditions of extraordinary necessity and urgency have often, rightly, been revoked in doubt by a large part of this House and also by the other House. It is true that in democracy the majority wins, but it is equally true that each of us, in particular the majority that wins, allowing absolutely lacking decrees-laws - as in this case, but also in other cases equally embarrassing and unfavorable from the constitutional point of view - to continue their process, we must assume our responsibility not only for our own voters, but above all for the institutional history of this country. I remember that we are at the twenty-eightth decree-law and the thirty-fifth trust (very often confidence has been repeatedly demanded in either branch of Parliament). A confidence that is not already a force, but a weakness of the Government, that is manifested in the merit of the thousandprorogues; a weakness that manifests itself, moreover, in the fact that no longer ask for a vote on the content of the measure but on the Government, with a method of taking or leaving unconstitutionally intolerable. The government says: either this provision is trusted by the Chambers or it is a crisis of government. That's the sense of trust. So, ladies and gentlemen, for all this we feel that the measure under consideration is also biased. The operational mode of this government is to take or leave, as our President-in-Office theorized, who, not later than a year ago, in a vigorous speech in this very branch of Parliament, stressed the need and his deep will to get out of the swamp of bad parliamentary practices, also saying: no more so-called thousand-pronged decrees. Mr De Petris and Mr D'Anna rightly recalled - of course the point of my speech is to declare our parliamentary group's vote in favour of the constitutional prejudices, precisely for this reason - that the milleproroghe is, unfortunately, an operational legislative procedure in this Parliament: a method, moreover, abused by those who said they wanted to abandon it; abused because twice the last "train for Yuma" of the legislative measures was launched desperately towards nothing with the inclusion, recurrence, extension and derogation from the entry into force of measures, which manifest all the weakness of this system of government. My colleagues have already spoken about necessity and urgency. It is clear that 117 topics dealt with in 15 articles cannot supplement the requirements of necessity and urgency. Moreover, once again, the President-in-Office of the Council gives us his creative interpretation of Article 77 from abroad: in addition to the extraordinary requirements of necessity and urgency and the need for homogeneity, from the Constitution repeatedly stressed, another of the basic presuppositions to the decree-laws is now to avoid parliamentary obstruction. This is a living interpretation of the material Constitution. The formal Constitution speaks only of extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency, but the material Constitution of the renziana era also speaks of the contrast to parliamentary obstructionism. Colleagues, I do not want to comment on this because this is not the forum, even if we are talking about a preliminary question of constitutionality, but this is a constitutionally subversive declaration. But I do not want to go into interpretations of a statement which the President of the Council will certainly have to report to this Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I would like to point out that once again the basic procedural prerequisites for the use of the decree-law are lacking, except, of course, that we do not want to adhere to the living interpretation, or rather to the dying Constitution that the President-in-Office of the Council has given us. Even on homogeneity, indeed on heterogeneity-dishomogeneousness I do not want to entertain: it is obvious unfortunately. Nor do I want to quote numbers: by now too many times we have given the numbers and if every time we have given them we have given a euro to some fund, perhaps for the small and medium-sized enterprise, or to the fight against poverty, we would have made someone rich, as well as every time we have quoted as violated the judgment of the Constitutional Court no. 22 of 2012 or n. 220 of 2013, in which it is said that the decrees-laws must be homogeneous, because if they are uneven they cannot intrinsically be necessary and urgent. But, ladies and gentlemen, I want to be brief and conclusive: let us talk about merit. Also on the contents the decree milleproroghe goes beyond himself. It is true that at worst there is never an end, but all of us, apart from the parliamentary "baptistics," must - excuse me if I may repeat this - all of us, first of all, assume a parliamentary responsibility and this decree from the point of view of content is shamefully unspeakable! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Mrs De Petris spoke of the extension of motorway concessions that have been stigmatized, having been the subject of great importance by the Competition and Market Authority and by that famous President of the Anti-Corruption, of which this Government fills its mouth, who said that the motorway concessions, in particular when they have infrastructure improvements as their basis, must be put to European competition, otherwise there is no advantage for consumers. There is only the turn of doing pleasures and courtesies to friends and friends of friends. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] As far as courtesies are concerned, I am sure that each of us will have examined the provision concerning alternative investment funds, which is also the subject of an extension; rather, a derogation from the entry into force of Community legislation on consumer protection and consumer portfolios relating to savings management companies and collective savings collections, which must be the subject of special protection as regards the guarantee against speculative funds. So I ask myself once again: why does this Government, whenever we talk about finance, popular banks or RAI, see itself as integrating absolutely extraordinary prerequisites of necessity and urgency? Why should we include in a provision a rule that does not have any urgency or guarantee for the finance market, but only risk and random characteristics for consumers? Of course, except to adopt that famous courtesy criterion for holders of foreign funds, for friends or friends of friends. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] And I conclude, Mr President: even the most creative and therefore perhaps more intrinsically unconstitutional part of this decree was drawn up by the Government for a pathology in the pathology. We had to make up for an error that was committed a month ago with the law of stability and that we oppositions, Forza Italia in particular, have pointed out in every possible way. I am referring to the increase in the VAT minimum and INPS rates for the self-employed, which shows that this is a government opposed to the liberal professions, the self-employed, the craftsmen and the traders, systematically charged with tax, bureaucratic and contributory burdens. We had to repair, by including in this measure, in an unconstitutional way, the remedy for a major error that we have tried to amend. Colleagues, these are just some elements of pathology, too many others there would be, 117 in 15 articles, to be stigmatized! But time is short and unfortunately we all, who also vote in favour, are fully aware of the pathologies that exist and of the mistakes that we make with a vote in favour. For this reason, we will not make this mistake and we are in favour of the preliminary questions of constitutionality put by our colleagues. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u27	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we are once again presenting, signing and proposing issues of obvious unconstitutionality that this decree-law presents. It is yet another decree-law of extensions, called milleproroghe when we could well call it ten thousandproroghe or one hundred thousandproroghe, since at almost constant frequency, not even more annual to December of every year, but even in two phases of the year, the necessity of the government to have to put hands with an emergency order to repeat and extend norms that otherwise would lose their effectiveness, creating innumerable problems to the administrations. This is yet another measure without the requirements of extraordinary necessity and urgency, provided for by our constitutional dictation in Article 77. We are faced with a decree-law which consists of 15 articles and in which time limits are extended. We have listened to the very long reports of the two rapporteurs, who refer to issues that for citizens are mostly incomprehensible: in the face of clarity, regulatory simplification, the easy readability of regulatory texts for citizens and businesses that every day have to face the tangle of regulatory stratifications of our country. These are 15 articles in which the time limits are extended - I make a very quick list - on recruitment, organisation, operation of public administrations, procedures for the Ministry of the Interior, infrastructure and transport, cultural goods, education, school construction, health and environmental matters, and even national sports federations. I have made this list in order to make it clear to the citizens, that they may bother to listen to us, what we are talking about in these parliamentary classrooms: a decree, usually adopted by the Government at annual intervals, on the sole justification for the need to ensure the effectiveness of the various administrations concerned by these rules. Indeed, what the citizens must know, and which we unfortunately see every day, is that it is an instrument by which the Government corrects its own mistakes, compensates for delays, inefficiencies, missed decisions that had to be taken before and are related to those same ministerial apparatus that perhaps, in the proper time they already had, they should have taken. For example, it is clearly unconstitutional to use this emergency legislation to extend the Commissioner's management for the implementation of the Agency's interventions for the performance of the 2006 Turin Olympic Games. We are in 2015 and Article 10, with a long list of paragraphs, provides for the extension of this Commissioner's management. Therefore, even to read the title and to scroll through the articles it is of all evidence that the decree lacks uniformity of content and therefore contrasts from all points of view as to heterogeneity, lack of necessity and urgency to provide, the constitutional parameters. There are articles dealing with economic and labour issues, for which, for example, it is competent to give an opinion to the National Council of Economics and Labour, which - I remind the Government - as provided for in Article 99 of the Constitution which defines it as the advisory body of the Chambers and Government in matters and according to the functions assigned to it, cannot be simply bypassed tout court. Therefore, to proceed to the examination of this bill without having transposed the opinion of CNEL presents aspects that can certainly point out profiles of unconstitutionality that, in our opinion, are manifest, even if it is pretended that this does not exist. We are faced for the umpteenth time - and this is the most important political aspect for us - with a prevarication on the part of the Government with respect to the competences and prerogatives of the constitutionally planned Chambers. This is the government's way of proceeding, which each time submits decree-law decrees to the committees and parliamentary classrooms, with minimal and very limited time for examination and debate, to the point that often one is not even able to examine the very content of the measure. Today we are debating this decree, after having had to close yesterday in a hurry and in a very short time, as if it were a farce, the examination in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and in the Budget Committee, in order to arrive today at what - we already know - will be the imposition of the umpteenth confidence, simply because the decree is running out. But can we go on like this? Is this the way to deal with the problems most felt by our citizens, i.e. employment, taxation and employment? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The citizens certainly do not press for measures, which we find ourselves correcting every time, which concern the public administration and the elephantiac apparatus of our State that are never able to function regularly. Many times we have said in this House that this system needs to be revised, that we must try to speed up the legislative process and put our hands on the parliamentary regulations: citizens, like us, have heard this for years, but the political will to do so is never there, because for years we have adopted certain instruments without ever having done anything before and without even this time doing anything. Today the government asks us to trust a decree-law of this type, clearly unconstitutional. We see, therefore, a way of proceeding boldly by the Government, which disinterests itself in what should be the tasks and prerogatives of the Chambers, pursuing with pervicacy and obstinacy in the habit of the abuse of the instrument of the decree of urgency, even if then to see well, scratching the bottom, the urgency is not there. We see that this way of acting also affects the constitutional reforms that the Government intends to adopt. We saw and lived, both here in the Senate and in the House, the government's M.O. Let us look with concern at this system, so much so that we also reported it yesterday when the delegation of our group leaders was received by the new President of the Republic of Mattarella. During the meeting, as an opposition party, we denounced the fact that the attitude of the Government is that of a dangerous authoritarian drift, so that this way of proceeding will cut off the parliamentary debate, prevents the exercise and the full implementation of our parliamentary democracy. The President of the Republic has listened to and recorded carefully all the aspects that we have pointed out: we hope that a step back will be taken, even if we do not put in this much hope. With the same system, for example, we have also seen the debate on electoral law in this House. We continue to say that the legislative system must be simplified, that constitutional reforms are important, that the electoral law must enable the country to vote, but we reiterate that these are not the true reforms that citizens expect, these are not the most important and urgent aspects - yes of extraordinary necessity and urgency - that this Government, if it were serious, should deal with, that is those more related to the interests of citizens, that out of here have many other problems than to think about the extensions of provisions maybe already repeated and without these requirements. We look with concern at this way of acting and denounce this attitude of the Government which, despite the constant calls of the Head of State and the numerous judgments of the Constitutional Court that has been pronounced, insists instead to behave as if all this did not exist. We therefore consider it essential to publicly denounce the situation and give this signal, by supporting these constitutional prejudices and voting in favour of them so that we do not proceed beyond the examination of the articles, even if we know that in the charade of this game of fake parliamentary democracy we will still have to proceed to the vote. This government is unable and unable to solve the problems of the country. We invite everyone to participate in our great event that will be held next Saturday in Rome. We call on all citizens to join us, all the operators in the various sectors, businesses and anything else to ask just one thing, which is quite clear, for the Renzi Government to go home. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u30	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, according to Rome, I have learned a typical expression: 'but I'm telling you to do so'. This is the interest you have shown in this debate, this is the respect for Parliament's classrooms and for the citizens who need solutions. This government that defines itself as "doing" is then known as the Government of postponing, of extending. This happened about two months ago: the alarm clock on the cabinet of the legislative offices of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers sounded with a warning: the extensions must be renewed. So they took the text from six months ago, they updated it, put it back on site, and today they're gonna trust you and put the alarm clock back on in six months. This means that the country is still, the country is waiting and the government continues to take care of its own business. However, we have problems, there are violations of the Constitutional Charter, and also violations of common sense. In fact, if we continually drop our needs and needs and postpone the measures that should finally bring about change and progress, we will have consequences and we will lose the confidence of citizens in legal certainty. Try to think about the problem of evictions: the tenant with the noose around his neck and the anguish of what will happen tomorrow but also the owner with the noose around his neck and the uncertainty of what will happen tomorrow. We are able to displease everyone; indeed, you are able to displease everyone. Try to think about companies that should invest and do not know exactly what the regulatory and incentive framework is. Try to think about how this situation lives who is to be assumed by a public administration and maybe has a life plan that is restrained by the inertia of the government. Try to think of public administrations, encouraged by a measure that substantially violates the principles of good administration to postpone what is required of them in relation to the Stability Pact and the obligations to improve services and guarantee transparency to citizens. Try to think about safety systems, from self-schools to agricultural machines, which are continually being postponed. We have a measure that freezes time and makes us hibernate mammoths in a block of ice. Not you, because we don't care much about you, but the country is like this. If we had at least had time to intervene on this decree by making some changes, we would have done as in the previous episode of this saga, introducing or trying at least to introduce sanctions for public administrators who do not do their duty. But you see, the highest, most severe and most severe sanction must be at the head of the government because the government is the first to be responsible. I'm sorry that the press doesn't see the interest that our rulers show. The government should be sanctioned. The political sanction for this Government can only be one: this time we say enough and we do not proceed to the examination of this measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u31	I put to the vote the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Senator De Petris and other senators (QP1) and Senators D'Anna and Milo (QP2). It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, no matter how much you are in here and whatever party you are buried alive, we are seeing at work the hooligans of democracy: undisturbed thunderbolts that flaunt the power of defiance, as much as the impunity they enjoy. The Bernini Fountain is one of the greatest legacys of an entire artistic era; so the Constitution is the legacy that we receive from our second Risorgimento, which took place after the twenty-year Fascist period. And while Italy is waiting desperately for a third Risorgimento from the many ever more frequent bribes, from the Masonic deviations (P2, P3, P4), you are bringing us back. The public debt, which you have skilfully magnified with unproductive spending, is the chain you needed to block the country's growth and bring it back to an international condition. With the crisis that you have built and with the blackmail of employment, you bring citizens back to be subjects and force them to tear apart the achievements of the post-war period. With tax pressure you kill the small business, but always ready to save the banks, the gambling lobby and the financial sharks. Today we see the institutional attack on this process. The government usurps legislative power and prevents all forms of control in Parliament. Yes, gentlemen: not only does the government make laws, but it also expels Parliament's remaining power to correct and improve them. Two days have been granted for this measure, for this wretched thousandprorogues. We have not even voted in the Commission. President Azzollini, noted that the Government did not accept any changes, simply turned the pages of the amendments, assuming that it was voted in accordance with the will of the Government. You will see that we will not even be voting in this House: a hand will come to put the question of trust and we, ladies and gentlemen, will not even be able to vote on the request for no passage to the articles, which we have already deposited: all this with the diligent supervision of the Presidency in turn. But when it is no longer necessary to vote, it means that we are in dictatorship: it is no longer Parliament that gives direction to the government, but the government that gives orders. Do you understand what a Parliament of nominees is for? The Senate is a servo-assisted mechanism, a power steering in the hands of the Government (the steering servant). I therefore spare myself the statement of the thousand reasons why this decree is unconstitutional, we have just seen them during the examination of the questions for a preliminary ruling: there are the repetition of norms, the prevarication of Parliament, rules without urgency or with urgency, but they are postponed, heterogeneous among themselves, which perpetuate privileges and evade precepts enshrined in the Constitution. 11:10 a.m. (Follow ENDRIZZI). Today I want to make it clear that the problem is another, upstream: the President-in-Office of the Council, with his gaffes programmed in art - do you remember Berlusconi's horns? We are there, on that level - and with the photos that he himself allows to spread skillfully, he hides his true nature. We seem to see a young man wearing a hat with a propeller, like in American movies. If we look well, however, it is perhaps more appropriate to see a fez, with a black shirt and spiked boots. This President of the Council shows his power to compress the Senate's work in just two days, to revise and correct an unhealthy measure in some measures and in its very essence. What's a thousand-fold? A fermented fruit salad of leggings that have only one thing in common: procrastinate the government's failure. It is a law in which one writes a thousand times "tomorrow", "tomorrow", "tomorrow", "tomorrow", but the future never arrives, with a further atrocious mockery: the Government makes these extensions because it has not done its duty; it struts with the announcements, but then does not make the implementing decrees. Hundreds of decrees and regulations lie down to which laws are handed down, which without them remain dead letter. Every year in the law of stability we allocate billions to finance actions that shock and without those measures, the money remains in the drawer and the country system does not start again. They talk about shocking and then the fool comes. But why don't the government do homework? Because it's all about doing what it doesn't have to do: reforming the Constitution, making electoral laws, getting delegated and centralizing powers. This thousandprorogues was weeks and weeks in the House, because the little prince wanted first the deformation of the Constitution, and you only have two days left to do the paperweights. That's where the jam comes from: Renzi knew that there would be, and perhaps that's why he strongly wanted in the beating heart of his legislative offices a vigilante, Manzione. Costei is also known for being the sister of a magistrate, who judged a procedure in which she attacked a mayor, who ended up in prison, and nobody said anything about the fact that that sentence was signed by his brother, who was then strongly requested by Renzi as undersecretary in the Letta Government. Then, when he became President of the Council, he also called his sister to his legislative offices. Well, in this parliamentary term, free citizens have entered Parliament, who have nothing to do with this system, far from lobbying, who have grown away from party farms and the system therefore reacts: we are a healthy organ transplanted into a sick body and, as happens in medicine, the sick body rejects the cure. We do not suffer from a lack of power: we represent 25% of the Italians, but because of Porcellum we had 16% of the seats, against 84 percent of the single party. Our task is clear: to monitor, report, inform. We're voices screaming in the desert. Yes, just like John the Baptist, whose name I bear. And ironize also that it ended badly because, if you do not understand what is happening, your party will become the sarcophagus of your conscience. [[Comments from the PD Group]] If the Italians do not understand it, before the right to vote is removed from them, the bitter fate will unfortunately be for everyone. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u33	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express my disappointment at the thousand-pronged decree, which was adopted with yet another vote of confidence in the House of Deputies in a very long night sitting without opposition, without an actual contradiction. Once again we wanted to make an act of force and violation of democracy. But young Renzi has accustomed us to these forms of authoritarianism and to these unjustified and unjustifiable forcings. We are now entering into the substance of the measure and the complexity of its content, which my party has already long criticized. It is, in fact, composed of tortuous and unclear norms, which do not respond at all to the needs of the Italians. The Government is making a big success of extending the old VAT minimum regime to 5% and blocking the increase in the INPS rate for the self-employed, but it does not say that this is just a correction of a disgraced rule that the Government itself approved only two months ago with the law of stability. Of course, this reverse was only possible thanks to the persistent pressure of opposition. What the government claims as an important result is actually only the outcome of a trial in which oppositions put the Executive before its own responsibilities. The Executive has rushed to the shelters, reconfirming the pre-existing discipline. But let's take a closer look at the details. First of all, it must be stressed that, even on this occasion, the Government has adapted its intuitions and solutions that are not the result of its work, but only of a careful and determined attitude of the opposition. Only thanks to the strong opposition of Forza Italia was it possible to avoid the danger of a further increase in ordinary taxation, which would have once again damaged thousands of young professionals, already the subject of a dizzying increase in taxes and contributions since the beginning of the year. And instead, thanks to the battle of Forza Italia, we managed to get the government back on track. In fact, changes have been approved in favour of the workers and the free professionals that, we at Center-Right, have always considered as true resources of the country, unlike the "dear" left, who has constantly painted them as a threat and as dangerous criminals. Thanks to our strong opposition, we were able to respond to the growing protests of a part of the country. Too bad the government did not have the courage and the loyalty to affirm and recognize it; it lost yet another opportunity to show a minimum of political correctness. The work of the oppositions has brought its fruits also on the front of the reopening of the terms for access to the installment of the debitory folders of Equitalia, a true sore point for thousands of citizens. Also this time, only thanks to the work of the opposition, we managed to give oxygen to all those families and all those entrepreneurs who continue to suffer the harassment of this agency. I remember that, even today, dozens of companies, especially in southern Italy, close and declare bankruptcy because of the violent and unscrupulous action of Equitalia. It is very true that this decree-law contains many necessary extensions in different subjects, but they are not buffer measures such as these to solve the underlying problems of our country. We await government measures "possibly not in the form of a decree-law" to give strength to this reflection, that are organic and system, for example to reduce structurally the tax burden on businesses and citizens. The Commission - alas - has not taken any measures in favour of the Mezzogiorno, which had already been severely penalised in the law of stability, but has thought well to grant here and there, between the lines of the decree-law, some gifts and facilities. I am referring, for example, to the abolition of the exemption for non-compliance with the Internal Stability Pact for the regions which have allocated a share of the Pact's objective to the payment of public debt of more than 50% of the same. The constraint of the Internal Stability Pact is an obligation for all regions and exemptions should, in theory, be triggered if the institution does not comply with that Pact. With this measure, however, we are condemning sanctions to those who have not performed virtuous behavior, to the detriment of all those who have done so. As it happens, it is a provision that fits perfectly with the Lazio Region, guided by PD. Among the other privileged bodies I could mention also the City of Venice, in the process of electing the new mayor, after years of administration of center-left, and the Municipality of Chioggia, currently governed by the center-left. So, on the one hand, we listen to the lessons of the teacher Renzi on how it is essential to respect the rules and indications drawn from Europe and, on the other, we take advantage of some territorial authorities that do not respect the rules: another example of consistency on the part of the government. On the other hand, one cannot be surprised at an attitude that rewards waste, because the rules of the spending review are also continually postponed. For example, the obligation for municipalities not the provincial capital to use the single purchasing power stations for the acquisition of works, services and supplies is postponed. But just yesterday, the Court of Auditors recalled how worrying it is to keep spending cuts to the future, in place of which the now sadly well-known safeguard clauses are foreseen. Punctually, even in this decree-law we find other safeguard clauses. This time, however, the mechanism is even more bizarre: in order to defuse an increase in excise duties on petrol and diesel, there are resources so uncertain that other safeguard clauses are necessary; resources that are difficult to quantify and find, because they are identified in the sanctions for the return of foreign capital. Once again, the Court of Auditors warns us that, when it comes to covering expenditure, it urges us to avoid forced use of both future revenue reservation and uncertain revenue such as those linked to the fight against evasion. But we know that the government is distinguished by a confused, disorganic and above all not useful to the country. We are therefore not surprised that even in this decree there is nothing really useful, nothing that benefits families with lower incomes and the weakest sections of society. But on the other hand, as mentioned above, small favors and various gifts are recorded. I quote an article by Carlo Di Foggia in which we read the following: It remains intact the rule that allows AIFA, the Agency of the drug, to bypass the spending review (requested instead to all others and indirectly to families) to save four executives. As well as the gift in the gift to the lords of the highways: they give another six months of time (until June 30) to submit the request for integration between different routes. That is the mechanism, provided for by the Italy unlock, that allows to automatically extend (and without competition) the concessions. A 16 billion euro gift for Gavio groups (in excellent relations with Premier Renzi) and Benetton and Toto. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] Two days ago, the President of the Anti-Corruption Authority, Raffaele Cantone criticized the rule, hoping for a revision, while the European Union is ready to sanction Italy. If so, the concessionaires by law will be able to revise the tolls (already risen by 1.3%) in short, concluding: in the thousandprorogues, the usual favors and many retromarces. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u35	We greet the students and students of the Institute including Enrico Fermi in Romano di Lombardia, in the province of Bergamo. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u36	Madam President, the measure we are debating contains a number of rules concerning the extension of a number of subjects. We are faced, in short, with the usual omnibus decree, a multi-collaborated instrument by this Government, in which everything fits. This time's fruit salad includes VAT, Equitalia, pharmacies, evictions and much more. It is a well-established practice of our governments to try to demonstrate the effectiveness of public administration through the thousand-pronged decree. However, it is an all-Italian custom to lay down terms and then not respect them: this is also reflected in the work of this Government. Not extending means almost not being made in Italy. However, the attempt to demonstrate the effectiveness of public administration in the end is unsuccessful. The message that passes, in the end, is this: we insert the norm with a certain term and then we see what happens. All this without a serious, rigorous, specific assessment of the scope and effects of what is being prepared. It would be much more reasonable to try to make certain rules, clear, easy to read, but above all to apply instead of getting lost in a thousand extensions. Common sense, however, is not at home in our institutions. If we don't set an example, then let's not complain if the country doesn't show common sense either. During the process of the provision, in the Chamber of Deputies, the Government changed its mind and turned back on many things, canceling what it had written in the law of stability. In some cases I have to say: thankfully! I am thinking, for example, of the social security contributions of the self-employed members of the separate management of the INPS. Well, we are happy with this, but certainly the Government must not feel acquitted, because however it continues, as far as the people of VAT matches are concerned, a series of harassments that are quite shameful, considering that then the people of small VAT matches, artisans, small and medium-sized enterprises is the backbone of our country. We often find ourselves, especially for the liberal professions, who have the obligation to register in the privatised coffers, in the face of people, citizens who earn 7,000 euros and are obliged to pay more than half of them in social security contributions. I would say that this is quite inconceivable. Well then the reverse on this, but let us come to the problems of this omnibus decree. Article 1, paragraph 7 provides for an extension until 31 December 2015 for the maintenance of fixed-term contracts of directors at AIFA. Cost: 495,000 euros only for 2015. A sum to be paid by the AIFA already committed to the budget for the payment of staff and for the operating expenses of the same institution. Now I wonder: if the milleproroghe arranges the invariance of the expenditure for financials the extension of the contracts of the executives, moreover by way of derogation from the limits of the legislative decree n. 165 of 2001, the AIFA will be able to bear this cost without making cuts inside it? What is the point of this extension? What is the need to maintain contracts with managers beyond the limits allowed by charging costs on the management resources of AIFA? Why doesn't the problem be solved structurally? And then I wonder: have we monitored the effectiveness of the interventions and activities of these managers? Because lately in the chronicle of critical elements we have seen many: I think of the case Avastin-Lucentis, the case Stamina and others. So I ask myself: do we keep them because they are so good or for some other reason? Citizens wonder, because not everyone has a greater god who always dispenses gifts and support: there is someone who is not really considered, even if he has more need. Again: paragraph 6-b of Article 6 provides for the activation of a table of comparison between the administrations concerned, the local authorities and the organizations representative of the workers in order to identify, by 31 December 2015, regulatory or administrative solutions to the employment problems associated with them. In itself, this is positive, because the employment problem exists, so we hear all the actors, we find shared and shared solutions, but doesn't the State-Regions Conference already exist (which is already between profit and profit)? We are the country of tables, endless tables, big binges and finally, consequently, stomachaches. Finally, an intervention is made on Article 6 (3) of Decree-Law No 78 of 2010, concerning the payment of allowances, compensations, tokens, remunerations and other utilities by public administrations to the members of governing, management and control bodies, boards of directors and collegial bodies. The paragraph extends from 31 December 2014 to 31 December 2015 the prohibition that these amounts may exceed the amounts reduced by 10% compared to the amounts resulting from the date of 30 April 2010. It is recalled that under applicable law the provisions also apply to special government commissioners, as well as to other special commissioners, however called, and do not apply to the remuneration treatment of service. Dulcis in fondo : Olympic Games in Turin 2006. What is the point of the further extension of the deadline for carrying out the Agency's remaining activities for the running of the 2006 Turin Olympic Games, by the Commissioner responsible appointed at the time? Mah! Mystery. 11:34 a.m. (Fucksia followed). We then come to other aspects which directly and indirectly concern health matters. With this thousandprorogations it is expected to postpone the effectiveness of the provisions on requirements for the transfer of ownership of pharmacies. First of all, I would point out that, as this rule is written, it will have made white hair come to the officials of the drafting offices, since, as it is, the text appears controversial and harboring of interpretative uncertainties and possible disputes, but precisely to the Italian bureaucracy the litigation and interpretative difficulties like. That's not all. We would like to reiterate that it is not the milleproghe that is the right instrument to regulate this sensitive matter. We do not understand the reason why it was decided to defer the effectiveness of these requirements, since at the time constraints and limits had been established, in order to prevent that of pharmacies becoming a ground of speculation and excesses of power. But we know that small pharmacists are offered free market. If you look at the possible consequences that would result on the system, but above all not being able to understand the reasons for this provision, I can only express a negative opinion. Another question: the derogation from the current condition of the existence of eligibility in a competition, i.e. a professional practice lasting at least two years and certified by the competent health authority, without which, today, access to the ownership of a pharmacy is precluded. The rankings of pharmacists from which to draw for the assignment of pharmaceutical offices are formed exclusively on the basis of the professional titles produced by each candidate. No tests are scheduled. This means that a pharmacist who is in a useful position in the regional ranking can be assigned to a pharmaceutical establishment even if he does not have the requirement of fitness. I cannot fail to stress the serious disparity in the rules of the game: on the one hand pharmacists who participated in the extraordinary competition may be winners of a pharmacy venue even without fitness; on the other hand, those who did not participate in the competition risk being excluded from the labour market. The latter, in order to obtain the suitability, must participate in a competition for qualifications and exams. Too bad that, under current legislation, competitions are not expected for the next ten years. Nor is it easy to achieve the said title through the activity of co-worker of pharmacy carried out for at least two years, because the possibilities of intake are now anything but easy, given the serious economic crisis that the pharmacies are also experiencing. For these reasons and for many others, I express my negative opinion on this thousand-pronge, and I deplore yet another confidence (how many are we at? 34? 35? I have now lost count) that Minister Boschi will come to announce us shortly. However, I took advantage of this milleproroghe to include again an amendment that I have also tabled in other milleproroghe, referring to that unnecessary bureaucratic fulfillment which is Annex 3B, concerning competent doctors and companies. In practice, a bundle of useless data, already in the possession of public administrations, that resolve in an unnecessary cost for the companies. I know that the Ministry is working at this point with common sense and perhaps it could be remembered, stressed and pointed out on this occasion too. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Comaroli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u37	Mr President, I am a little embarrassed in this House today because, theoretically, this House should be in charge of making laws and identifying what is wrong, when it is at second reading, with the measures coming from the House of Members and making the necessary corrections. But you can't. Therefore, our role is disappointing, but I am no surprise now, because the President-in-Office of the Council considers us already dead. Consider the Senate finished and tell us: Who cares about the Senate? I'm moving forward with trust and thanks to all of you. Do not intervene either: do all the necessary steps, because they are prescribed, but it is a farce. The only consolation we have left, ladies and gentlemen, is at least to be able to ensure that the citizens who look at us from the outside know what this Government is doing. There is a huge confusion of rules: I challenge any citizen to be able to do without an accountant or lawyer and to follow all these rules that change overnight, especially in complexity. I'm just gonna give you an example. We have just approved these deadlines in the Stability Act, on 23 December 2014, and already the Government amends them: on 23 December it approves them, on 28 December it presents a decree-law to amend them. This shows that this Government does not have a goal to achieve, it does not have a point of arrival against which it carries out all the necessary actions. No, this government lives on the day, according to the moods, according to who asks for help, who asks him to make a rule (after I will say what is this particular rule that the government must present). Another thing this government does is not respect employees. As always, there are A-grade employees and B-grade employees. I do not understand why exceptions should be made to recruitment. But, by chance, most of them are executives. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bottici]] But is it possible that there are more leaders in this country than workers? Exemptions are made for managers, not to mention that the manner in which the Government has operated are prohibited by the same accounting law. The latter provides that no commitments may be made after the expiry of the financial year. But it is Renzi, and Renzi is granted everything, or rather, the PD and the New Right Center allow him everything. Let us also consider the confusional state of this Government. In the thousandprorogations there is the norm aimed at suspending the tax payments to Lampedusa, issued on 28 December; but, by chance, in the measure on the IMU that we approved yesterday there is another norm regarding the tax obligations of Lampedusa. But how, was it just approved? There are two cases: either the rule introduced in the milleproroghe was not good and there was a moment of confusion, for which they had to remedy immediately, or this Government leaves some doubt about his way of acting. Another particular aspect is that some bodies, perhaps particularly close to the President of the Council, are allowed to approve the 2014 budget. Gentlemen, year 2014, budget estimate! It's already expired! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It expired, but there is an extension to approve it by 28 February 2015. In what normal country do these things happen? Theoretically, by 28 February 2015, the 2015 forecast budget should be approved. This is how serious administrations work. Those who have not done so are incompetent administrators and must be punished, without granting them any extension! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Many people will have read the tweets of President Renzi in which he says to meet the citizens, to simplify everything for the citizens, so much so that in the law of stability, approved on 23 December, there were rules of simplification in the matter of VAT. Now this rule on simplification is already being extended, but the rule has been used by Mr Renzi to announce it on TV and let the citizens know. Except after that, he changed her right away. Always to prove a little bit of this government's bizarreness, let's talk about the safeguard clauses. In Decree-Law No 102 of 2013 there was a safeguard rule that increased excise duties to cover certain expenses. Now, the government says it's good and good and doesn't want to increase excise duties, because the money's gonna come in now. It does not increase excise duties, but increases the IRAP and IRES payments! This is crazy. Already this government has increased the payments, which are 110%. What do we do? Are we going to increase companies' payments to 150 percent? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] And besides, the government says that if that's not enough, it's going to increase excise duties again. Mr President, this attitude is not serious, it creates confusion for citizens. There should be simplification for citizens, there should be clarity for taxpayers, because most of the ongoing investigations by the Revenue Agency, which the left says concerns evaders, are related to evasions due to the fact that it is the Italian State itself that is not clear with the citizens, that they are unable to follow the evolution of the rules, mess in which the rules are passed, changed, removed and put back. There is no respect for the citizens, that's what I'm sorry for. Faced with the seriousness of some public administrators, some mayors and presidents of the Province, what does this Government do? It still helps the smart ones, the so-called bad administrators, because you can't go and tell the institutions that they have to recover, because in the past years they have spent more than they had to, that they have to submit the return plan by a certain date. No. So much so that bad administrators don't even present the return plan. What does the government do? He says to them: Don't worry if you haven't submitted the financial return plan, it doesn't matter: postpone the presentation. Continue to do as you have done, so there is always the norm that comes and allows everything! [[Call the president back.]] Am I out of time? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, Senator Comaroli. There is no problem, Mr President, so I shall be speaking again during the debate on trust, since this is not the case here too, but the question of trust, always because of the lack of respect for this House! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caridi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u39	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the Senate, and we are certainly voting for the umpteenth confidence that this government will have. It would be nice, for once, to confront other colleagues, to table amendments with the hope that they will be adopted, to contribute to the improvement of a law and to open a serious debate on various issues; in short, to be able to freely exercise the parliamentary function guaranteed by the Constitution. Instead, for a year now, the Government has almost always raised the question of trust, delegitimizing parliamentary activity. Ladies and gentlemen, I certainly do not want to hinder the process of reform that the Government wants to pursue, although I do not agree with some of the approaches. I wonder only when we can carry out a decent parliamentary activity: it is not possible that any kind of law has the urgency to be able to apply the decree and gag Parliament. If at least these decree-laws had positively influenced the problems of our country, if they had served to restart the economy, to increase employment, to relaunch our businesses, to create greater purchasing power for our families, I would have made it a reason. Instead, in a year of Renzi government we witnessed the increase in public debt, the exponential growth of unemployment, the widening of the absolute poverty belt: a motionless economy. This government had promised a reform a month, then they became a hundred days, then a thousand and so on. The European Semester was supposed to be the biggest opportunity for Italy to assert itself in Europe, but six months have passed and no one has noticed a radical change. In fact, the European Semester only served to divide a few chairs and not count for anything. In fact, talking to Putin goes Merkel and Hollande, not Mogherini, as well as talking to Obama goes Merkel and not Mogherini. The economic crisis, unfortunately, continues to curb the development of Italy and we can do all the labour reforms that we want, but, if we fail to restart consumption, companies will never assume, because they are not in a position to do so. The 80 euros will be used to win the European elections, but they did not have any impact on the growth of consumption, which involved only a small part of the Italian population. The South, for example, is living the economic crisis even harder. Our young people do not find work and leave; without them we are sure that there will be no future. Ladies and gentlemen, as an elected Member of Parliament in Calabria I am committed to the establishment of a special economic zone (SEZ) in the Port of Gioia Tauro, which would revive the economy of the South and transform the port into a strategic place for the whole Mezzogiorno. However, after so many walkways and promises of the Premier and the various Ministers and Undersecretaries, there is still no trace of the ZES. As if that were not enough, in this decree for Calabria there is nothing, it is not even considered, as if it were a separate place, far from Italy. I had asked, for example, to speed up the terms of the establishment of the Metropolitan City for Reggio Calabria, but this request was also unheard: instead of isolating the South, this Government should focus on its relaunch because, if the South does not start again, Italy does not start again. The only confidence I can have today is the hope that the time of the commercials will come to an end and that of the facts will begin. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Dirindin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u40	Mr President, I am speaking on this measure with regard to the very important issues which we have followed directly in the Health Commission. It is difficult in this House to talk about issues relating to health protection and therefore it seems very useful to try to discuss this together, representing the needs that emerged when examining this measure with regard to the extensions envisaged in the area of health protection. In the meantime, we have stressed the difficulty with which the Commission has been able to take account, not of the whole measure, but of the parts which concern the health sector and which sometimes involve a difficulty in doing all the necessary in-depth work. The need for these extensions stems from the fact that the interventions included in this decree (many within the competence of the central administration, some of the regional administration) are of a certain complexity and this, in some cases, has not allowed its adoption within the prescribed time limits. However, as we very often point out, both central and regional administrations need to pay all the attention they need to implement the measures. In this respect, I would like to repeat what we have said, with some satisfaction, also in the Health Commission. In this measure extending time limits there is no extension, to which the Health Commission and Parliament as a whole have worked, relating to the closure of psychiatric judicial hospitals. Some will certainly remember the last extension decided last year. We had for a long time discussed and considered the need to make a great effort on this matter also by Parliament, which all too often forgets to follow the implementation of the rules and not just to legislate. This measure, to which the Health Commission in particular paid a great deal of attention, obviously together with the Government, did not need a further extension, proving that, with careful implementation, the extensions can, at least in some cases, be avoided. With regard, on the other hand, to the measures which have been extended for health, I would like to stress another important aspect: an extension has been provided for the fixed-term contracts of AIFA, which is a body supervised by the Ministry of Health. The issue of the precariousness of the bodies supervised by the Ministry of Health is extremely important, we have tried to evaluate it and we have proposed amendments to the Stability Act. No attention could be paid to this situation on that occasion. This measure allows at least to create a situation of less difficulty for some contracts of AIFA, the Italian Agency for the drug. It does not deal with other supervised bodies, in particular the Higher Institute of Health where the number of precarious persons, unfortunately, is so large that the more difficult it can be dealt with in terms of completion and therefore must necessarily be dealt with gradually. This measure is, however, a very small step to begin to respond to these problems. There is also another extension for which we have some concern and which is fortunately only six months in the application of minimum requirements for transfusion services and blood collection and blood products units. In this case not all regional administrations have been able to implement the minimum requirements, which are defined to protect people's health and therefore constitute a public health problem. That is why an extension has been envisaged. However, we have made a recommendation to the Government, which is also contained in the opinion of the Health Commission and which I repeat in this House, so that, even with the Commission's commitment, it closely follows all the regions in order to ensure that this extension does not need further referrals. There is also a very important subject, which many of us know, relating to the Red Cross which, as we know, has recently been the subject of various regulatory interventions, the last of which is Legislative Decree No 178 of 2012 which provides for the transformation of the central committee, regional committees and provincial committees into subjects under private law. The regional and provincial committees have been transformed but the central committee has not yet been transformed, so we are in a situation where the local committees of the Red Cross have been transformed into social promotion associations but remain inseparably linked to an institution which, on the other hand, still maintains its public nature. This is because the process of transformation of the central level of the Red Cross is fortunately started but it is very complex. The Department of the Civil Service has activated a technical table to coordinate and support this process, which involves, inter alia, a major problem of staff mobility and which will have to take into account all the complexity of the case and especially the quantitative size of the staff to be relocated, especially as a result of the pronouncements of the civil courts. That is why it was necessary to provide for an extension. Here too, we believe that the process must be followed very closely by all levels of decision-making and, in particular, by the central administration, so that no further referrals are necessary and finally a complete, organic and comprehensive structure is given to the Italian Red Cross. There are, then, two extensions that can be judged necessary, in the sense that they respond to the need to ensure that sanctions are not triggered, or in any case the procedures that are provided for in the event of defaults, with reference to the revision of certain tariffs. One concerns the revision of the remuneration of the entire chain of the drug: from the manufacturer, to the wholesalers, to the pharmacists. This is a review that has not yet been carried out, to which, among other things, there were also objectives for the overall rationalisation of the system, and which unfortunately requires acceleration. The other is the redefinition of the system of remuneration of hospital and outpatient services provided, in particular, by the private facilities charged to the National Health Service. This is also an old system of remuneration, which had to be updated (some tariffs may increase, others may decrease and in any case must take into account changes in production costs and above all the intrinsic value of the different benefits) and, since this is of great importance for the budgets of individual health companies and also private supply structures, this adjustment is important. We have undertaken to monitor carefully over the next few months so that the tariffs can be updated, as provided for in the legislation currently in force. Another postponement concerns the dematerialization of the recipes with which medicines and outpatient diagnostic services are prescribed. A long process is in progress, which has fortunately achieved good results (but not excellent). It was planned for the current year that 90% of the recipes would be sent with the electronic system, but some regions are in difficulty. Almost always it is the regions that are structurally weaker, compared to which it would be necessary, instead, a surplus of monitoring in order to be able to carry out these initiatives. However, it was expected that the 90% (in this case too, non-achievement of the target would lead to sanctions) would be postponed until 2016. I do not speak - because someone else has already done so - about the derogation for the transfer of ownership of pharmacies: this too can create small problems, on which we have already had the opportunity to discuss and, in the opinion, express the position of the Health Commission. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bianconi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u41	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u42	Mr President, a great deal has already been said about the characteristics of this decree-law, which has created very serious doubts and which have led to the submission of questions for a preliminary ruling, which have, of course, been ignored. I would like to focus, in particular, on Article 6 on education, not only to highlight how, in reality, the continuous extension is a bad habit of our country and how this Government continues to work through decree-laws, on which it regularly puts the trust (two trusts per day raise the doctor of return and above all raise the Parliament of return), but also to demonstrate how within such an articulated measure there are pitfalls that can then reverberate on aspects hugely present in the everyday life of citizens. I have also tabled amendments, which, of course, have been translated into agendas (in view of the way in which we proceed and the fact that the decree-law must be converted by 1 March and we have only been able to examine it for a couple of days) which - it seems - have been accepted in the Commission, knowing well that the agendas are of extremely minor validity. In fact, in this thousand-pronge we find an extension relating to school building, where instead in the daily news we see that this would have an urgent character, but it is not in deciding an extension, but in realizing what is well known that it must be done, that is those school buildings that guarantee a family to know that, when their son or their daughter leave the house, they will then be able to have them back at home for lunch and dinner healthy and safe: of this, however, unfortunately, no family has certainty. In the course of the examination of the previous thousand-pronged decree I presented an amendment which was then translated into an agenda, with which it was said in practice that it would be the government's responsibility to ensure that this was the last extension; but, of course, a year later I find myself proposing the same identical amendment, which is translated into the same order of business and which I believe is that, if we have the chance - or the misfortune - of still being here next year, I will find myself having to propose again. Let us also bear in mind that this is not just a matter of school building, because on this extension depends on the fact that many of the school building interventions are blocked by legal litigation. We have a Minister of Education and a Minister of Justice; the Government has committed itself to ensuring that all the disputes that had to do with school building have a priority way of being resolved, just so that we do not find ourselves with the same problem today. Well, obviously they either didn't speak or they didn't think it was a priority to do so. Another point: with an article, which escapes the cryptic formulation and the initiation of the decree-laws, the constitution of the Higher Council of Education, former National Council for Education, is extended. It may seem a minor extension, but in reality the National Council of Education, which was then transformed into the Higher Council of Education, should have been established for some time now. In fact, the TAR of Lazio, in a judgment of October 2013, invited the Ministry to provide quickly for the constitution of this important body. The decision of the TAR of Lazio was confirmed by that of the Council of State of 18 February last, therefore a few days ago. Let's go see what this Council does: as functions, it has technical-scientific support for the exercise of government functions in education matters. It formulates mandatory opinions on school staff policies, evaluation, the general organisation of the national school system and national education standards. In addition, the Council is called upon to give an opinion on the proposals submitted to it by the Minister-in-Office and also to express itself on legislative matters relating to public education. You can commission knowledge investigations and report them to the Minister. Now, we postpone the formation and reconstitution of this Council, which - let us remember - is the only body within which by law there are subjects who have the direct experience of the functioning of the school, in December of this year. Perhaps I have been induced by these almost two years of presence here to run forward with my predictions, but I would not have to maliciously consider not accidental and deliberate the postponement of the formation of this Council - which, as you have heard, would have the titles to express all the news that the Ministry and the President of the Council intend to propose - just at a time when the Government, in all the newspapers, televisions and with all the possible and imaginable fanfare, is announcing radical reforms in the school. So, once again, I have to say that we have removed the possibility that there is any form of contradictory. As I have already pointed out several times in this House, the Government in the field of education is systematically eliminating any form of contradictory; yet the Council of Education has already expressed itself several times on the subject of school, just as it has been ignobly dismissed in previous governments, and has expressed itself with negative opinions. Maybe it's a way to get an uncomfortable organism out of the way or maybe it's a way to create a window. The serious thing is that, in the more than the absence of this Council, it is foreseen that the Government should not acquire the mandatory opinions that this body should give by law. Therefore, a small extension, which seems so harmless and embedded in a decree-law that contains many other extensions that are more visibly harmful or dangerous, puts the Government in fact in the possibility to act without any disturbance and without even having to acquire those opinions that it should necessarily acquire by law. I add this detail to the already heavy load of all the details that have already emerged this morning and which undoubtedly place our present Government in the condition of having to give answers not only on specific issues and, in the case, on the subject of education, but also on questions of method that are not peregrine and that have to do not only with the obliteration of a parliamentary democracy, but also with the annulment of other bodies. Let me give an example: it would be as if we decided tomorrow that the Superior Council of the Magistrate no longer needed. At this point, I thank the President and all of you for listening and I leave you to a careful reflection on this very small detail. [[Applause from Senator Maurizio Romani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u43	She's enlisted to speak Senator Mangili. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u44	Mr President, this measure contains 82 provisions for the extension of time limits, which have already been set out in as many rules and which relate to them. What we call a thousandprorogations today is a bad practice that many governments use when they consider that the terms indicated earlier are not enough to solve negative situations and difficulties. The extension requires a statement of reasons based on exceptionality, necessity and urgency. On the contrary, in our legal system, the provision of extension periods has become a fixed-term law, which serves to postpone in some cases always the same rules in other provisions that the Government or public administration has not been able to adopt. Every milleproroghe does nothing but heal the inefficiencies and administrative failures of the Government, allowing the latter to return to his steps and to assume the right to rewrite ill-written, ill-thought-out or simply had a promotional function and for which - perhaps - there is someone under Palazzo Chigi who screams and protests to ask to cancel them, to suppress them. It is disappointing to admit that such measures represent an objectionable way of working, the expression of legislation which betrays the existing principle of the Charter, which is precisely that of legal certainty. Is it certain that right that allows evictions a four-month mini-prorogation? Is it acceptable, it is normal, in a country like ours, that a citizen in economic difficulties, without a house owned, maybe receive a eviction 'for finished lease', but can benefit only four months to move to a new house? One question arises spontaneously: but if he has not paid that rent, how can he pay another elsewhere? When will it be understood that as long as no minimum income is recognised, no citizen of good will will be able to cope with taxes, with respect for civil rules, with mortgage payments, with rents, precisely? With this decree-law also the professionals with VAT number will have the possibility to choose, again throughout 2015, the old system of minimums at 5%, instead of that of 15 percent introduced by the law of stability. This can, of course, be done in accordance with two precise points: those who earn less than 30,000 euros and who are under 35 years of age will be able to enjoy the scheme. However, for all, it is the stop to the increase in the contribution rate, which therefore remains blocked to 27.72 percent. However, this rate will rise to 28 percent in 2016 and 29 percent in 2017. With reference, however, to the failing local authorities, the Government wanted to grant an extension until 30 June 2015 to present the procedure of multi-annual financial rebalancing. It would be interesting to know how many local authorities are failing and how much such an extension costs in budgetary terms. We are always talking about extension when we talk about Provinces such as Monza and Brianza, Fermo and Barletta-Andria-Trani, which extends by one year (to 31 December 2015) the deadline for the use of resources available on special accounts made available to the three aforementioned Provinces. This deadline was last set at 31 December 2014 in order to allow the fulfilment of the obligations assumed on these resources for the interventions authorized by the laws of the Provinces. One year after last year's extension and eight years after the original deadline, the amount of funds in special accounts has not yet been counted. Anyway, let's continue with the extensions. The article 8, paragraph 1, extends to the end of 2015 the deadline for issuing the ministerial decree in the matter of contrast to the abusive services of taxi and rental with driver. To say that you have been waiting since 2010 may seem superfluous, but that is true. Will this period be enough for the Government to finish working on an issue on which it has been engaged for some time and which has already been dealt with by a ministerial commission? Moreover, the idea of urgency that we have does not coincide with that of our President-in-Office of the Council. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, there is no representative of the government. This is unacceptable! You have to listen. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Undersecretary, show your presence on government benches. Senator Mangili, continue your intervention. MANGILI (M5S). You should know that, among other things, mayor Marino, since in Rome cars with the NCC inscription circulate without creating too many problems. Regarding the mayor of the Capital, it is inevitable the connection with the Lazio Region, which has been pardoned with a rule of this provision. The so-called rule saves Lazio has previewed that the Regions that in 2014 have gone beyond the Internal Stability Pact, but that they have done it for 50 percent paying of the previous debts, can apply the supplementary contracts, assume to indefinite time with admittances in role, turn on mortgages for works in phase of realization and have less sanctions. In practice, the Lazio Region will not have to pay part of the penalties provided for by law, but will be able to allocate additional resources to the supplementary bargaining, within the limits established by the national bargaining, and will be able to proceed to hirings indefinitely. Similar benefits are provided, for example, for Venice, a city for which a rule has been inserted that explicitly refers to the Municipalities of Venice and Chioggia, which have crossed the Stability Pact in 2014. For these two municipalities the penalty for the reduction of the resources of the Municipal Solidarity Fund has been reduced, limiting it to a maximum amount corresponding to 3% of the current revenue recorded in the last summary. But why does the government treat the regions and municipalities as if there were children and stepchildren? He prefers some and leaves others behind. Why? We'll never get the answer. We regret to note that Venice and Chioggia are subjects which we find in other measures adopted in this House and which have already received a lot of aid. Yes, we should talk about aid when we talk about extensions, perhaps because they are necessary just when someone has been disappointed. There are many bitter people: not only we of the 5 Star Movement, but also the many citizens who wait outside these muffled walls and live in the real world. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u45	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u46	Mr President, just yesterday we voted on the extension of the deadline for the government to decide to implement the tax reform, approved in February of last year. It is the Government of the change of pace, the Government that actually wants to suppress Parliament in order to make it faster, but happens, when it is up to it to do things, it cannot do it: in this case it took a year not to do them. In one year he was able only to produce the request to extend, for a few more months, the time to act. In the measure under consideration it is always the Government that asks for the extension of different rules. We know very well that the thousand-pronged decree almost always contains provisions that give time to the Government to do what it had to do. So Parliament must, in times usually tight (this time absolutely indecent), approve things so that the government can buy time for its complacency and to do as it pleases. I would like to focus on an extension, in particular, contained in paragraph 10 of Article 8. Since the beginning of August we have begun to be stormed by the wonderful fates that would have touched our country, with the launch of the measure unblocks Italy, which of course had to be done by decree, because to approve it with a bill we do not even talk about it. But then it took 45 days for the decree-law to be issued: in those 45 days it was not that the decree-law slept, but was shown to the interested. And when we speak of interested persons, we refer not to the representatives of the people, but to those who then earn by the gifts of the decree. They were able to see it, to ask for the changes and it was explicitly said by government representatives that in particular the beneficiaries of the extension of the motorway concessions were able to dialogue with the Government so that the rule was cut out on their "sympathetic" needs. Article 5 of the Italian unblocking decree was in fact the possibility, explicitly announced as such also by the President of the Council, to be able to extend the motorway concessions for those who had more than one, or to unite them with other subjects, so as to be able to unify them all at the most distant expiration. We are talking about extensions even of twenty-eight or thirty years, much more than the period that lasted Fascism. Here we want to make employment of certain sources of income, which lasts much longer. A prestigious study center linked to the website "The Voice" is part of, just to give an example, Tito Boeri (who was appointed by this Government to head the INPS, for which it is supposed that the Government itself has estimated it), assessed the benefits of this article for a single business group in 9 billion and 600 million euros. It is 9 billion and 600 million euros not in turnover, but in gross operating margin, in favour of this group, whose leaders - by chance - are among the first participants in the financing dinners of the Democratic Party and more than anything else of its leader Matteo Renzi. So what happens with the extension decree? The rule was presented to us in the unlock Italy as something that would unlock 12 billion euros of investment, even if more than investments, it is cash. Anyway, you should have done these jobs. It was an investment of 12 billion from today to the next day. That is why we must make the decree, because Parliament is slow! Then the government, in 45 days alone, manages to write a measure, which provided for certain timings to present the projects and do these fantastic works. But then the months pass and now they have inserted in the milleproroghe the extension of another six months to present the projects - note well: to present the projects! - on a standard made at a kind request and at the service of private entrepreneurs. They deserve all respect, if they are in a competition regime, but they are entrepreneurs who will have the opportunity to see their concessions extended, which not even for 100 meters won with a regular race, but all for having inherited a situation of previous dealers. With this rule, it delays for another six months. I am confident that the European Union, in addition to the National Anti-Corruption Authority, will reject this rule. Meanwhile we lose six months, during which the dealers will continue to benefit from the old conditions; in other words they will continue to perceive from the car users that payment in installments that has now expired, for which the highway is paid, without however assuming new commitments: a loss that can be estimated, even for these six months, to the most optimistic extent, in 250 million extorted to the motorists, to the Italian transport companies for the benefit of an entrepreneurial group. Congratulations! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u47	She is registered to speak Senator Zanoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u48	Mr President, Senators, Senators, I find this debate interesting, partly because it will be true that the Government intends to approve extensions to facilitate itself, but basically it incorporates requests from citizens, regions, provinces, local realities, which call for some extensions. Although the measure is precisely called a thousandprorogations, it does not only contain extensions of deadlines because the tasks have not been done, but also measures are decided useful for citizens, such as the 120-day extension for those who have been evicted; the delay in setting the criteria for using the CAF in an appropriate way; the introduction of delays in the submission of the application to the INPS, with reference in particular to the case of the rules on pension treatment for workers exposed to asbestos: these are measures that citizens expect, it is not the Government that wants to impose its own roadmap. There are measures on emergencies and we know that the problems of Emilia-Romagna and L'Aquila are still open and require further extensions for the acts concerning them. There are also work interventions, tax incentives aimed at the return of the worker to Italy, for example, or provisions on the tax regime for youth entrepreneurship and mobile workers: these are certainly measures and extensions expected. Then there is the whole game related to the relations between the State, local authorities, Provinces and Regions: in these years of great transformations, there have certainly been flaws on our part, with difficulties and organizational jams, but certainly the local authorities are still waiting for many measures. To name one of the most important ones for the moment we are living, there is the extension to 2017 of the participation to 100% of the contrast to the escape for the Municipalities: it is an important point that has been requested just for the activities of contrast to the escape to be more effective. Another important element is the extension of single purchasing power stations. The municipalities, especially the smaller ones (because this measure concerns the municipalities not the provincial capital), asked first of all for a single deadline, because two different deadlines were foreseen, one for the acquisition of goods and services and another for public works: the deadline was unified on 1 September 2015, mainly helping the smaller municipalities, because they have not managed in recent months to adapt to this legislation and above all to join, compared to all the organizational problems, giving rise to the associated forms of municipalities. The interventions on the regions, which are once again the subject of many problems during this period, also concern the vertical stability pact, which, as you know, allows local authorities to take advantage of a part of the Region's Stability Pact. Finally, the Provinces, which as we know are a painful key at the moment: there are many difficulties they face and everyone was waiting, for example, for a word about employment centres. The fact that we have an extension on employment centres is crucial. I am still making two comments. One concerns the 2006 Olympic Games, on which I was stimulated by previous interventions. I am sorry for Senator Fucksia, but this is an absolutely indispensable extension in order not to lose money to all those who currently have an open dispute. In fact, the agency's remaining activities mainly concern the definition of outstanding disputes which will then allow the use of the remaining resources. Resources that amounted to about €40 million. This also allows the execution of extraordinary maintenance and redevelopment of the plants located in the mountain territories affected by the Games. This may not be known only by those who do not know what the revolution of the Olympic Games has meant for certain small mountain territories, where very large installations have been installed which have required a very complex conversion activity. Allow me, Mr President, to address a small joke to Senator Comaroli, who has complained a great deal about the extensions. And in part I share his irritation because I also think that the thousand-pronged decrees must be disposed of and reduced in size over the years. I wonder, however, why she did not complain about Article 4 (3) which provides for the extension of the use of resources available on the special accounts of the Provinces of Monza and Brianza, which are intended for the establishment of the peripheral offices of the State administration, resources allocated to the special accounts established by the Commissioner of each Province and then transferred to the prefects responsible for completing the interventions. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Comaroli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u49	Colleagues, Senator Zanoni was the last member to speak in general discussion. Having to regulate once and for all the speech of Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure, having received pursuant to the same article a request not to pass to the examination of the articles to which, always according to that rule, the same discipline as in Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure, regarding the agendas, I ask Senator Martelli if he intends to intervene to illustrate the request not to move to the articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u50	Mr President, the reason why we are asking for no passage to the articles is, quite simply, that we believe that this measure should not exist. We should not even be called upon to vote yes or no on a decree-law that extends. By its very nature, an extension order goes against the constitutional requirements of the Court, which ruled that a decree-law cannot be repeated. However, this is a repetition of rules. The container is always the same. Some rules come in and some others come out, but the principle of extension has been stated as wrong by the Constitutional Court. That is why we are asking that we do not even go to the vote on the articles. You are not the incompetent, because you do not make these rules, but the government. You just press the button. If your Government is not able to make a law in which the terms are certain and therefore to give legal certainty to the people living in this country, it is necessary to take note of it and that is all. It cannot continue to be extended. There are issues here that have been going on for nine years, and that must not happen again. You should have the courage to say that the government is incapable and that it should operate better. It's useless to keep making proclamations. Unlocking Italy is one of those rules that should have made the revolution and already there are extensions on unlocking Italy, because the Government is unable to do something that goes beyond an announcement. Everyone is capable of doing the wonderful things with Twitter, but as soon as you get past the typing of a number of characters, Renzi becomes an incompetent person. Let's put a stop to this once and for all. We're not even going to the articles. Then, if you like, you will settle these problems once and for all. And I say this without going into the substance of what you are extending. It can be right or wrong: it is irrelevant. It's the principle that counts. And the principle is: enough with a thousand extensions. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u51	The general debate is closed. Since the rapporteurs do not intend to intervene in the reply and the Government has previously indicated that it does not want to intervene, we proceed to the vote on the proposal not to proceed to the examination of the articles. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I invite colleagues to take their seats. I think this is the most natural, simple and quick formula to solve the problem. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles put forward by Senator Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u54	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, today the majority knew that we would ask not to go over the articles for which it was present and allowed to vote, but when President Grasso sees that the majority senators are absent and the opposition uses the few instruments it has not allowed this vote. I hope that for the future it will always be possible to move forward and vote on the request not to move on to the examination of the articles, at least the majority will have to be present in this House. Since the proposal has been rejected with a split of 15 senators, I would ask you, Mr President, to check the posts because, without naming names, there have been more votes than the senators present, especially on the part of the Democratic Party Group. [[Live comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u55	Colleagues, there are no general accusations: if there are irregularities, they are reported. CASTALDI (M5S). Since they're screaming, I've had the right to not name names, but I could do them! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Colleagues, I recall that there is Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure but also Rule 64 of the Constitution, which provides that representatives of the Government should be heard whenever they so request. He asked the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so. 12:37 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption of the single article of draft law No 1779, in the text already approved by the House of Deputies. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u57	The Presidency takes note of the issue of trust. I call on the Conference of Group Leaders to organise the debate and therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 12.39 p.m. and resumed at 1.05 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u58	The Conference of the Leaders has organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the decree-law on the extension of legislative terms in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. For the discussion on trust, one hour and 50 minutes were allocated on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The explanations of vote will follow. The call will start at 4:00.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u59	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u60	Mr President, here we are with yet another confidence, which we have also lost count of. Who kept track? Are we at 40a, 41a or 42a? Bingo! Then we no longer talk about the content, that is, the thousandprorogues. If we talk about trust, we have to talk about the reason why we should go behind the empty benches of the Government - at this moment, for those who do not have a concentration, there is only the Undersecretary Pizzetti, while the rest of the benches is empty - and say "Yes, I have confidence in this Government". Give us reasons to do so, because we did not find them in the debate. This measure contains all the reasons for not trusting and even less so for what is happening outside the House. This morning we heard some Senator of the Democratic Party saying that unemployment is not growing and, on the contrary, everything is fine because with jobs act people find work, the economy is recovering, the European Union has given an okay to the law of stability approved with confidence and everything is in place and resolved. President, however, we read in the newspapers that the Government or, better, Prime Minister Renzi had undertaken to tell us who were the financiers who sat at dinners in Rome and Milan from which PD collected 1.5 million euros. So far we've heard there were Buzzis and other suspects. Has nothing been seen of all this transparency and we are being asked to trust this Government? Are you asked to trust those who raise money by doing lobbying and hiding from those who collect them and putting in this thousandprogress the interests of their lenders? Should we trust this government? For God's sake. Should we give confidence to a government that tarnishes the accounts and says, in the Community, that we have presented the budget with reforms that will regenerate the Italian economy? Too bad there are safeguards. The government will spare nothing because in this plan - as in what we have seen in recent days - any reference to cost cuts has disappeared. Where's the cottatarelli? Did you send him into exile and, with him, all the cutting and spending-saving plans that the government had undertaken to make? And should we trust this government that does not send the Minister of the Interior to respond to all the damage it is doing, allowing an invasion of illegal immigrants in this country out of control, who flee from the identification centers without even the law enforcement authorities having more competence and conscience? We have an interior minister who does not even come to account for the damage done by a group of dangerous fans in Rome in recent days, who should reassure us about the danger of ISIS: this is the Government that asks us for trust. It is the government that makes us believe that it has removed the IMU from the mountain agricultural land, thus safeguarding agriculture, but hiding the fact that the IMU on agricultural land fruits 270 million euros. I repeat: 270 million euros that further oppress this sector in the year in which, with Expo, they all wash their mouths saying that in our agriculture there is the best that the country can offer and that we will have a great opportunity of economic regrowth just starting from it. The government takes and squeezes 270 million euros from agriculture. Who cares if the land is of mountain or plain: the only certainty is that agriculture is squeezed as if it were an orange or any citrus. This is the government we should trust, yet another trust. No, Mr President, we are not and are not at all in this way of operating. Let the President of the Council of Ministers also stop telling the newspapers that he must continually provide for decree-laws and trust, otherwise, in here, acts get bogged down. [[Applause from Senator Mussini]] In these days we have witnessed the presentation by the Government of a decree-law that it could not convert, because its own majority had amendments that could not then be covered by the same Government could not close the work in the Commission. Oppositions have asked for a debate. When, however, the time comes to debate, the mouth is shut, putting the question of trust and causing all the amendments to lapse. This is the government we should trust. No, ma'am, we're not gonna trust you. The time has come for the country to realize that there are no empty brains in here, but senators who represent, instead, the will of a country to have a word. Politics is not just raising money for dinner, as Renzi does: politics is being among the people who have lost their jobs. We remember Terni's workers, who arrive in Rome and are mangalled and then find themselves further mocked by a Government that guarantees employment without even remembering that we no longer control the steel market, which is all in the hands of foreigners. This is not a government that deserves trust. We certainly won't be able to give it to him. [[Applause from Senators Fattori and Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u61	Senator Campanella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u62	Mr. President, first of all, I have to accuse myself. I tried to take back Minister Boschi when he was asking for trust. The reason why I tried to do this is trivial, but historical recording, because I think it will be one of the things that I will remain most impressed by this legislature, a bit because of the Minister's wisdom, a little because of the continuing repetition of this mode of operation. It is now clear to everyone that, here in the Senate, Boschi means trust. In some ways, we have become accustomed to this way of working, but we also continue not to tolerate it, because we believe in the parliamentary institution and in the separation between legislative power and executive power. We've been among those who still believe it. It is regrettable that the Democratic Party, which has done so much in the past legislatures to protect Parliament from a series of attempts to amend the Constitution that wanted to compress and almost stifle it, is now interpreting - with the amendment of the Constitutional Charter that it has put in place and, first, with the continuous practice of the Government - the strong and very dangerous attempt of annihilation of Parliament itself. You see, I have spoken several times - I believe, however, it is useful to repeat - about the way in which the Government comes out absolutely out of the dictation of the Constitution, presenting decrees-laws that are not homogeneous, urgent and less necessary, and I would say that they are harmful. This way of working renders the parliamentary representation, the emptiness of meaning, essentially useless, because the laws are made by the offices of the Ministries, according to a bureaucratic logic and very far from the lives of citizens and economic operators. This logic is so far away that citizens no longer understand those laws. They can no longer read them, they do not understand why they foresee certain administrative procedures that seem Kafkian and crazy. And they don't understand it for a simple reason: who outlines those processes doesn't live in the operational reality of economic production, but sees everything from behind the desk of a public office and necessarily and ontologically, looks at those procedures and simplifies them according to their work, or simplifies their work. Until when? Until Italian politics really decides to change direction. But do not "change direction" as the President-in-Office of the Council proposes to us every day on television. The change of direction must be the maximum possible adaptation to the needs of the people in the territory, in the cities, in the offices and in the factories; demands that the Government, unfortunately, with an almost admirable continuity (if it was not devastating) ignores. And the fact that you ignore them is clearly evident from a whole series of measures, largely announced and someone unfortunately also implemented; measures that, in the perspective of producing work and, to simplify administrative activity, seem to be done, with pervicacy, against citizens. Mr Candiani mentioned the IMU on agricultural land just now. To me comes from reminding the jobs act and what, with it, we did to our young people. Can this government be trusted? I have confidence in the future, as I hope that this Government will be able to complete its path as soon as possible, thanks to the courage of some colleagues who I hope will take away their trust. I fear, in fact, that its continuation will do so much damage: if it will follow the rhythm and intensity - fortunately not very effective, but extremely harmful and viral - that it has had in this year of activity, frankly I tremble compared to what it can do from here to the natural end of the legislature. And I fear so much that, frankly, I wonder if it is not desirable for this legislature, which already has so many clouds on it, to end before a whole series of harmful interventions are carried out, the first of all - for me - the destruction of the Republican Constitution as we have known it so far. For these reasons, with the hope that this Government will soon end its days, advance that there are no margins because the Mixed Group and, in its context, the Italian component Work in Course give their trust to the Renzi Government. [[Applause from Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u63	She's registered to speak Senator Bulgarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u64	Mr President, I shall divide my speech into two parts. In the first part I will deal with four of the extensions contained in the measure under consideration, and then give a more general speech. With the first extension - and it is something that I had said last year, during the examination of the previous decree thousandprorogues - it is admitted the employment of sworn guards on board of the merchant ships flying the Italian flag that transit in international waters in defense of the same from acts of prairie, even if they have not attended the previewed technical-practical courses previewed from the law. This means that we will send people who are absolutely unprepared for the use of weapons to defend merchant ships. But with what has already happened in India - as I said last year - continuing to repeat this extension without organizing and implementing courses seems crazy to me. They are courses that, of course, should organize the Ministry of the Interior, but it always seems to me that, without his knowledge, he is not able to carry on the things he should do, also given the latest events. The second point to which I would like to draw attention, and for which I thank the Government, is the derogation for the extension of tax benefits in favour of youth entrepreneurship. This extension practically tells us that the government has noticed that it has done something not so good with the minimum regime in the law of stability and, therefore, takes a step back. And I thank him for that, because he finally realizes when he's wrong, admits it and takes a step back. Another point to stress in these extensions - I just mention, given the lack of interest - is the financing of political parties. In this decree-law the Government provides for an extension to 15 February in order to receive the funding or contributions provided for political parties. It is not so serious that it provides for the extension, not least because it expired on 31 December, but because it was done: either the political parties were not interested in receiving funding and, therefore, did not request it by 31 December, or the new parties born after 31 December must have the opportunity to make a request with a nice extension. That, too, does not seem to me to be a great example of honesty. The last point concerns the safeguard clause included in this measure. We now also insert the safeguard clauses into the milleproroghe. But it is not so much about the issue of safeguard clauses. The problem is that every time the government inserts one it gives the impression - as Mrs Comaroli has already said this morning - that it does not know well where it is going. A safeguard clause had already been put in place. Now why do we have to put it back? If they do not come back enough capital exported abroad in an illegal way and, therefore, will not cover all the burden they were supposed to cover, we do not go looking for money from those who have escaped or exported them, but we go and take them as an IRES and IRAP down payment. And, therefore, they always pay the usual. By the way, the payments - as my colleague has always said this morning - were already over 100%. I would therefore like to know how we are going to increase an advance already planned by 100%. At least we eliminate the word down payment, otherwise we're ridiculous. The safeguard clause, however, also offers me the opportunity to make a more general speech. Every time we bring an act to this House, the majority always defend the measure and the opposition, of course, attacks it. We should take a step forward in this situation. It is true that there are pros and cons in this milleprorogues, but the majority should stop reporting only the pros and the opposition only the cons. There are times when you have to have the intellectual honesty to say things as they are. In this thousand-year period - in my opinion - the serious thing is the example given to citizens. With this measure, the government proves that it doesn't know where it's going. It amends and extends to acts adopted a few weeks ago or a few months ago, or even makes extensions that, by law, it could not do. And I wonder, therefore, what example of legality and honesty can be given to citizens. Or it rewards non-virtuous bodies: when we reduce sanctions for those who did not comply with the Stability Pact, we are rewarding those who did not respect it and we are also telling those who did not respect it the following year, because the sanctions will be eliminated. You have to make a clear speech. What example does the government want to set for the Italians? He wants to continue talking and then, with the facts, give a different example or he wants to take the country responsibly and tell us what project he has, and maybe not for the next 10 days or two months but for the next few years, since now it seems clear that Renzi wants at all costs to arrive to 2018, and with whatever kind of majority he has at hand. It is necessary not to reward the wrongdoers, those who escape or those who do not respect the rules. The government, first, must respect the rules and the laws. You can't make outlawed provisions. This is an unimaginable fact. Why should Italians respect the laws, if the first not to do so is the Government itself? The government should take care of its task, which is not to legislate with continuous hits of decree-laws. It should deal with the legislative decrees that are still pending. And then I ask myself questions about European infringements. We have opened so many, which result in huge amounts of money that we could invest in other sectors. On the other hand, we continue to pay, because the government deals with something else and does not solve the problems that create infringements with Europe. What does the government want to do? What do you want to prove to the Italians? Do you want to show that it is possible to live in an honest country respecting the rules and laws? Or does he want a country that is always and continuously out of law, where everyone can do what he wants? [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u65	Senator Comaroli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u66	Mr President, with regard to Renzi's statement of being forced to demand trust because of opposition, I would like to point out that - as Mr Candiani rightly said - it is often the fault of the Democratic Party or of those who support the Government, but many times it is also the fault of the Government itself and of its Ministers, if there is opposition. Just think of the law of stability, on which confidence has been placed, of which I recall only the 1,200 amendments of the Democratic Party, the 500 amendments of the New Right Centre and the 80 amendments tabled by the Government. But how? So the opposition, Renzi, has it in the house? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It makes me particularly aware that the President-in-Office of the Council says he has to issue decree-laws because, thanks to them, the economy is recovering and marks a plus 0.6% of GDP. But it does not seem to me to be a considerable growth, and let us remind the President that this plus 0.6 is not due to his grandiose action, but to the decrease in the price of oil, the devaluation of the euro against the dollar and the actions that Draghi is implementing. So, it's absolutely not Renzi's fault. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] Just to try to make it clear that the statements contained in Renzi's proclamations are often denied, always in the area of economy I remember that the President of the Council said he had lowered taxes. Well, the Court of Auditors' report states that: Even the impulse of the bonus can be frustrated if considered not as a permanent additional element of income, but as a compensatory element of an increase in tax burden. Ergo: Renzi has increased the tax burden, and the Court of Auditors says so. To return to the measure under consideration and finish our observations, I remember the famous story of the norm saves Lazio. We do not understand why the Lazio Region cannot comply with the Stability Pact without being sanctioned. No, the Lazio Region is allowed. The Senate Studies Service notes that non-application of sanctions is a deterrent to those who comply with the Stability Pact. This means that, unfortunately, all those who respect the rules, according to the logic of this Government, are not smart. To what pro respect the rules and implement the cuts - I remember that this Government has made the Regions apply 4 billion cuts - working to invent a system to guarantee equally the services and, at the same time, save, if there is no problem and just do as the Lazio Region? Let's say: the Lazio Region is allowed not to comply with the Stability Pact in order to continue to carry out unproductive expenses and to hire permanent staff. Allow me, then, to reply to Mr De Micheli, who said in the Commission that he had to include these rules in order not to incur European infringements. This is not the case: the European infringement takes place if the debts of the public administration are not paid. Why does the Lombardy Region pay debts in 33 days, unlike the other Regions and, in particular, the Lazio Region? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] And when the Undersecretary was asked which regions were affected by the rule, he replied that it was not yet known and that it would be seen later. It was enough, however, to make a phone call to the Accounting of the State, who replied that, in this case, it is only Lazio. Allow me to make one last joke about this system to proceed with confidence. By paraphrasing what has been said in a television broadcast, Greece is currently experiencing a crisis and is in serious difficulty. As everyone knows, however, Greece was the cradle of democracy, it invented democracy. If Greece were to patent the concept of democracy and give it to the other states, perhaps by granting it in a convenient way, it could decide not to charge anything to the states that actually respect the concept, while the states that do not respect it would charge a fine. In this case, our President-in-Office should pay a lot of money. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u67	She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u68	Mr President, my colleague, Mrs Zanoni, said earlier that some of the acts that citizens are waiting for are contained in this measure. If Prime Minister Renzi let us work well, there would be no need for extensions because they would make laws with a duration, and not with a period of five or six months or even a year. Italy now needs less laws but safer, and not extensions. We have 65,000 between extensions and delegations. That's crazy. Stop. We of the 5 Star Movement have entered Parliament to bring back in these classrooms respect for the institutions, but also for citizens outside who choose their representatives. We have tried in every way to bring the demands of the citizens, who are the only legitimate ones to determine and decide which Italy they want. On the other hand, in the Commission and in this House, we often see the habit of bringing only the demands of some Members of Parliament or the Government itself from friends of some lobbyists. Citizens need something else, not that. On Monday, together with other Tuscan MEPs, I met representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises. The Government, a long time ago, issued the split payment and reverse charge measure, which small and medium-sized enterprises have difficulty implementing. This measure started on 1 January 2015 and small and medium-sized enterprises ask to postpone it to 2016, because they are unable to do what is required. You're taking away their liquidity. This is the provision that was to be inserted into the milleprorogues, and not just those of friends of friends, as always happens. I had tabled an amendment, but with the question of trust everything is blocked. It is not us who do not want to work: it is the Government that does not give us the opportunity to do so. He really did make the emergency measures, and there is one, which has been declared urgent, which blocked the work in the Justice Commission in the summer of 2014: it is called anti-corruption. That's where we find the money to save Italy [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , and not in small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the column of the country. They're the ones who pay us salaries every month, the 15,000 euros a month, and that's why we owe them respect. So, since you've blocked the works, sign the anti-corruption decree today, without playing games. But what confidence do you want? But what confidence can we give him or what confidence can give him who's out of here? He bought the vote at Europeans with 80 euros, which now makes everyone pay, including those that did not take them. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You had to raise the economy, get your purchases back on track. You said that, by paying the debts of the public administration, VAT money would return. That's crazy. You killed the companies and then you asked them to pay VAT. Where are we? You do not have the idea of what accounting is: yet, you have the state budget in your hands. You have in your hands the salvation of Italy and you bang highly of those who voted for you. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Speak of recovery, of the fact that Europe, Dragons and the ECB are asking for it. Then we really put Parliament back in the position of working, and you do yours. You only have executive power. To legislate, we're here. You are not elected or appointed to do this and, as we say these things, the representatives of the government do not even look us in the face or are often absent from the benches of the government. So, when the government asks for trust, Mr. Renzi should have the courage to present a Chamber: do not just do media propaganda around the world. If he really cares about Italy and Italians, he should put his face on it once and for all. [[Live applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u69	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u70	AIROLA (M5S). Look at that courtroom. Beautiful! Excuse me for interrupting, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, there was even a standing ovation for Senator Bottici. More than that, what do you expect?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u71	Mr President, colleagues from the 5 Star Movement are right: this House has never been seen before, it has never been seen as such a desert. As you know, however, one follows the debate on the issues he is more or less interested in. But, in the meantime, the work of the House is progressing. I would have liked to have had a few more colleagues present to do a little provocation. We are wondering along which path we are going: where did we crash? If there were any representative of the majority party, I would ask him just this kind of question, as if President Renzi were present here today. I don't ask for much memory effort. We remain at the last week, at the last three measures in terms of time: confidence has been placed on the ILVA decree, as has the one on agricultural IMU and now on the milleproroghe, which we are debating now. It's a good way to act. Parliament is frozen and follows an obligatory path: a bob trail, which traces the Premier and his Government. An equally dangerous announcement is that of the reordering of the radio and television system. If you read the chronicles of this country, for twenty years we have been talking about the reordering of RAI to be done by decree as a matter of urgency. But the urgency has lasted for twenty years: now the urgency is bursting to fix the radio and television system. I don't know if the government uses all the means available to it. I assume he doesn't care. The Council of State, in addition to being a second-degree body for administrative justice, is also an advisory body for the Government. If the government occasionally consults the Council of State, asks for some opinion, it would probably have a minimum indication on the main road to follow. Have you ever asked the Council of State for a preliminary opinion on the constitutionality (necessity and urgency) of a decree-law? I suppose not. Otherwise, in all these acts which I have mentioned, the Council probably would have denied the existence of these conditions. We read something very serious today. President Renzi was exonerated a few days ago for a problem of fund management and that Section President who acquitted Renzi yesterday was promoted to Prosecutor General of the Court of Auditors. This is an incredible chance. We probably don't even have a judiciary that wants to do its job anymore: all flattened on this government. But is that possible? But where is this country going? We have often seen the President of the Republic - it was different, it was not the current one - use the red pen against the governments of center-right, Lega and Berlusconi, when he first assessed the constitutional conditions and sent back the decree-laws and the Government and the Council of Ministers had to put up the whole process. This does not happen anymore: the President of the Republic is called out and says: the decrees decide them the Government, I approve and I will put the signature only at the end of the iter. What about this House? Oppositions are doing what they can, but when the questions of constitutionality are raised, the House is totally flattened and asserts that there are always prerequisites of necessity and urgency. I would like to make this point again when we are really discussing the privatisation of the RAI, although the House also considers that there is a real need and urgency. The Rules of Procedure have been trampled on. It had never happened, by memory, at least, of those in this House who did a minimum of parliamentary power. Why have the Rules of Procedure been trampled on? To go along with the Premier, who wanted a certain rule to be approved by this House within a certain period of time, at all costs. We have seen, and example, an electoral law that makes no sense, because in it it is written that it will come into force in June 2016. But the President-in-Office of the Council had made a commitment - with those who do not know, perhaps with public opinion - and that was enough to get rid of Parliament's regulations as well. 13:48 (Follow DIVINE). Majority colleagues, at this time it is more difficult to be in the majority than in the opposition, because at least we can afford to maintain objectivity. I understand, however, that pressure on your side is much stronger. But do you realize where you're taking us, where you're taking the country, right from the point of view of democracy and constitutional legitimacy? This Premier has taken buffer ministers, such as Minister Boschi (but we can't go against her, because the choices are always of Prime Minister Renzi) who - we read - declares that the only problem in this year of government is that he has put on two kilos. Gentlemen, at this point I do not know what we can talk about here. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u72	Senator Santangelo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u73	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, by addressing the honourable citizens who, fortunately, are looking at us from outside today, I will try to explain to them what is happening today, giving them an opposite view of what they have. At this moment the shot is fixed only on my person, but consider that there are about five senators of PD - indeed six, because one has just arrived - one of Forza Italia and we will be about ten or twelve of the Five Star Movement and eight or nine of the League. That, Madam President, is the mirror of the Senate and of what has been happening to it for two years. The operation of the Senate is absolutely unacceptable: here we are talking about a decree that has already been marked in its path, because yet another question of trust has been raised. Here all my solidarity goes to the Undersecretary Pizzetti, who I believe is the one who has suffered the most trust in this democracy, along with my applause. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] I have a fact that I would like to remember: the Renzi Government has put 34 trusts in the House and I believe as much here in the Senate, so we are in an average - think! - of almost 3%, that famous 3% that we are overtaking even with the challenges: please, warn Renzi that it is exceeding another percentage. But what is a thousand-fold? Something that didn't exist and was introduced in 2005. It is a decree that shifts certain deadlines from the temporal point of view: it does only that, it corrects the aberrant things that Parliament has done and corrects the aberrant things that the Government has done. I would just like to mention a few of them: extend the deadline by four months for those who have been evicted. So explain it to me, colleagues here (now we are even less in the Chamber because a member of the PD is leaving; we are in the majority, Madam President, then we vote immediately!). What's the point of moving the deadline by four months for those who got evicted? In four months, these families and these people, what are they gonna do? How are they going to pay rent without any income support? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Without absolutely urgent measures on the income of Italian families and citizens, all this farce will do nothing: it is the income of citizenship; that is what must be done immediately; we should block the work and discuss only this. Of course, Mrs. Vice-President Fedeli, I appeal to you with the task of leading him to President Grasso: from an economic point of view, how could the problem of lack of money be solved? With the anti-corruption law. So let us once again block Parliament and discuss anti-corruption law. Are these or are they not two essential initiatives to be taken immediately in this country? The citizens are asking you when we are forced to suffer filth like this week: they have put taxes like the IMU on unacceptable agricultural land; on environmental crimes we have not been able to vote on to date. Madam President, I am about to conclude by stressing another incredible fact: since 2010 the deadline has been extended on the subject of abusive taxi drivers and car hire with drivers. The milleproroghe only serves to move the scumbags that this government has done. I think he arrived here at the Senate two days ago. Madam President, we all give up what we have seen in these two days because the work we have all done in the Commissions has done nothing. Why didn't you say at once when you arrived here that trust would be placed and that this job would be of no use? We can all calmly and calmly give up at least - Madam President, I would also ask you to give this signal - the compensation this whole week because Parliament has not been able to work. It was a big farce. Let's all do it here right now. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There's only a few of us. Let's all do it; let's give this signal. At least the mortification of such an empty Chamber will be overcome by an important and strong signal that we will give to the outside world. Madam President - we will also say this in the explanation of vote - we will say no to this system of prevarication, we will say no to this system made up of pawns placed in the main places of management of this country, we will say no to the umpteenth confidence placed by this goddamn Renzi Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u74	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u75	Madam President, the milleproroghe is an old vice of the Italian Governments, as well as the mirror of the superficiality of this Executive, which approved an omnibus law decree, which was further weighed down during the parliamentary examination by various norms completely lacking the necessary prerequisites of necessity and urgency, in clear contrast to the provisions of Article 77 of the Constitution. I do not subscribe to the register of the special indignant for the casual use of the decree of urgency: it is unfortunately a well-established practice in the history of the Republic and we have often witnessed an indignation at alternate plates, depending on who is proposing to the Government or the opposition. But given this premise, I must add that there is a limit to everything. The Renzi Government, in fact, is making absolutely improper use of the combined arrangement between the decree of urgency and the imposition of the vote of confidence, a mix that ends up putting Parliament and its prerogatives totally out of play. Parliamentary history teaches that the abuse of the vote of confidence is an act of force and together an element of political weakness of governments that make the big voice because they do not trust their majorities. Well, if Renzi wanted to change towards Italy, in this case he changed it doing even worse than his predecessors: out of 67 laws launched by the settlement to date, in fact, 35 were approved with the vote of confidence; on average one every twelve days considering also weekends, summer break and Christmas holidays. And if the ratifications of the international treaties, which are merely a formal act, are excluded, the percentage rises to 68% of the measures approved. In recent days the President-in-Office of the Council has formulated a constitutionally new equation from Paris: We will be able to make some less decree-laws if the oppositions will do some less obstructionism. But there is not even the most unknown textbook of constitutional law that binds parliamentary obstructionism to the decree-laws and, on the other hand, it would be enough to give even a quick glance to our Constitution itself to know it. The reality is that the reasons that allow the decree of urgency have nothing to do with parliamentary obstructionism and, therefore, Renzi has candidly admitted that the 28 decrees issued in a single year of government did not have the reasons of extraordinary necessity or urgency required by the Constitution, but were only aimed at expropriating the Parliament of its legitimate role. I am among those who have strongly voted for the abolition of perfect bicameralism, because I consider it to be a hand-held brake when faced with the need for faster legislation and in step with the decision-making speed of the other major democracies, but it is frankly unacceptable that the Government has already, in advance, taken an even further step, relegating to a merely notary function both Chambers by means of decrees and votes of confidence. I am not afraid of man only in command, because I am aware of those who prefer the democracy of the leader compared to the party-cratic swamp of crossed vetoes, but the role of Parliament cannot be to approve everything that is proposed to him without asking too many explanations not to disturb the maneuver. This is unacceptable. Speaking of trust, we really hope that the RAI will not be reformed by decree-law: it is urgent to remember that RAI is the public radio and television service. It will also be a slogan of sure taken to remove it from the hands of the parties, but it is good to say loudly that the only reasons of necessity and urgency that are evident are to put it as quickly as possible in the exclusive control of the government. The hope, at this point, is that the referee of the Colle actually acts as the referee - as we believe he will - and intervenes, not to safeguard democracy (because democracy is not at all in danger), but to restore once and for all the correct rules of the game. Returning to the thousand-pronged decree, on which the umpteenth confidence has been demanded, it is a measure that, besides representing a bad example of legislative technique, certifies the failure of the action of the Government and the entire administration, through a plethora of norms that correct provisions already in force: they weigh them down and complicate them, they repeat provisions that, from year to year, have never found implementation, often modifying them and thus undermining the same legal certainty. Ultimately, these are completely heterogeneous rules, which end up creating a chaotic and often completely incomprehensible regulatory framework. On the merits of the measure, however, there are also acceptable aspects, such as the extension of the old VAT minimum system to 5% and the blocking of the increase in the INPS rate for self-employed workers: this is one of the cases - of the many cases - where Parliament has managed to remedy a serious error and, in any case, a misassessment by the Government carried out during the examination of the stability bill. This is our battle, won in defense of the self-employed and professionals. In the same way, the installment of the debitorial folders has been confirmed, receiving, again in this case, a precise request of Forza Italia. Government and majority did not want to cancel the increase in VAT on pellets from 10 to 22%, deliberately choosing to sink a growing economy, taxing a vital sector in a discrittled way and blocking the virtuous circle between economy and environmental protection. I shall conclude, Mr President. The thousand-pronged decree - we know - is in many parts the instrument of injustice and, in others, the instrument of gifts. We find it completely unacceptable, for example, to exclude sanctions for regions which failed to comply with the Internal Stability Pact in 2014. In this way, it has been chosen to continue to reward the bad management of public expenditure, mocking good administrators who know how to manage their budgets in the interests of citizens. In favor of the Lazio Region, marked PD, has even been invented a real ad hoc norm and even the City of Venice can celebrate: the sanctions for having crossed the Stability Pact in fact go from 60 to 17 million euros, with the debt that thus stops to 52 million euros, avoiding for now the default. The gift (to use euphemism) remains also to the gentlemen of Autostrade, who have been given another six months to submit the request for integration between different routes: a gadget, let's call it this, from 16 billion euros, harshly criticized by the President of the Anti-Corruption Authority itself Canton, while the sanctioning action by the European Union is already ready. In short, in this decree-milleproroghe law there are old perpetual vices (such as client recruitment, with the very presumed invariance of expenditure and as the perverse mechanism of the safeguard clauses, which means sure increase of excise duties) and new messes that go to infuse the tangle of norms that remains, together with the shepherds of bureaucracy, the big ball at the foot of this country. For this reason, Forza Italia will vote no to the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u76	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u79	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking in an explanation of vote for the 35th confidence that the Renzi Government, which celebrated its first year of life a few days ago, proposes and, I must say, imposes on its majority in this Senate House. Yes, because the vote of confidence is not a demonstration of strength: it is a demonstration of great weakness on the part of a government. It is not even true that the vote of confidence is a remedy for parliamentary obstructionism. It is, clearly, in this provision, which comes to the attention of our Senate on February 20 and was immediately incardinated into the Commissions on February 21. We are here today to vote for confidence, after the parliamentary debate and the Commissions have been far from being represented as a obstructive debate. There is more simply a vision, a way of conceiving democratic institutions and Parliament as sometimes unnecessary and annoying passages in the formation of the will of a state. Or worse, we must note that the very contents of the provision require the Government not to go too far in the examination of the article of the decree-law that is put to the attention of the Chambers. I just want to remind you that we are talking about a measure in which 117 different issues are dealt with, in 15 articles. It is in re ipsa the unconstitutionality of a provision that, by force of things, cannot have homogeneity of argument, as the Constitution imposes for the proposition of the decree of urgency. It is in re ipsa that the vision of constitutional law that the Government and the President of the Council have - I say it with much imagination, to want to be be benevolent - is a new interpretation and the formation of a material Constitution that has nothing to do with our formal Constitution. Where are the reasons for necessity and urgency converging in 117 different measures? However, we must also look at the substance of the issues under consideration. In this short time that I am given to declare the vote of the Group of the Great Independents and Freedoms, I mean that we are really in a philosophy and a conception of the Government, which are really worrying. In these 117 different measures we find some of them of great interest. Do you remember the battles in this House against the extension of motorway concessions? Remember when from the opposition benches we repeated several times, unheard, that it did not agree with the State and did not agree with the user citizen to extend the motorway concessions, because they would not have benefited and the only beneficiaries would be the dealers themselves? Well, after that measure that should have unblocked Italy - because then due to redundancy of terms and propaganda in the pure state, I believe that this Government does not get beaten absolutely by anyone - the antitrust authority and even the anti-corruption authority of Judge Canton, who on every occasion is evoked as one of the pride among the achievements of the Government, they say - heard! - that there is no benefit in that form of extension of concessions and that European competitions must be carried out so that the user citizen can benefit from motorway management. What do we do? We put it in a thousand-fold. You never know: the motorway dealers are important friends, you can't easily liquidate the matter. Then there is the other measure, which seems so harmless and what else is only the way to extend over time the incorporation into Italian legislation of what the European Union requires of us, with regard to the collection of savings, its transparency and the organisation of those who manage the common funds. However, we extend the terms of this inclusion, because Community legislation harms all those in the banking sector who are still interested and comfortable in maintaining a system, which has remained only in Italy. This government has a courage as a lion towards the weak, against whom it manages to be strong, determined and determined, imposing very precise and evident constraints. Just yesterday, Mr President, we asked with our amendments for the extension of the payment of the IMU for so many small and medium-sized farmers, also on the basis of their income. In fact, we believe that at this moment in the life of our country to place a further harp and a further tax on the already uncomfortable shoulders of our farmers is unbearable and hateful. No, with small farmers we are clear and precise: everything must be paid, everything must be done immediately; no delay is possible, which is possible for bankers, for motorway dealers: we are weak with the strong. We are able to be condescendants and share in the needs of the strongest, the richest, those who may be able to support us in party action, in political action. This is not moral, it is not even political, because politics cannot be but the art of understanding the needs of all, and this provision does not exist in this Parliamentary House, which presumes, that it wants to represent the overall interests of our country. One cannot be so deeply and disgustingly biased and biased in favor of the strong and against the weak. And then see; you must say no, with some pride, to trust, for reasons of attachment and love towards our Republican Constitution. You will recall, ladies and gentlemen, just a year ago, President Renzi's address in this Chamber, which had even to say 'never again a thousandprorogues', but he was right to say so, because the thousandprorogues, if we want to decode it from the point of view of the government act, is a pedissequa statement of impotence and inability. What is a thousand-pronged, if not an admission that what had been planned to do in a given time has not been possible and that we need more time to ask Parliament? It is a self-certification of inability and impotence, when it is nothing else, when it does not mean other interests. We are absolutely tired, Madam President, and that is why we will pass under your bench and say no to trust, because we feel it is wrong from the procedural point of view, but also because we do not like many aspects of the measure. There will be in my Group those who, on the other hand, will see positive aspects in this measure, which are essential to the continuation of activity. Clearly, being my group with different sensibilities, this may happen, but from my point of view and most of the Group's Autonomous and Liberty Group, I must absolutely declare to you the conviction that by voting we will also bear witness to a vision of parliamentary life that we consider appropriate and important. At the moment when we express no to trust we will face an idea of a country that does not even coincide in part with what the Government expresses with the measures it carries out. The moment we say no, we will think about the whole part of the country that has been weakened by the economic system, as it has developed. Madam President, I begin by thanking you for the time you have given me and I would like to represent you, your colleagues and colleagues, who can also experience moments of difficulty, and there is a large part of the country that is experiencing these difficulties, but never can a Government, a parliamentary majority kill trust and hope, because in the lack of trust and hope you lose the sense of national participation, you lose the sign of belonging to the only state family, you lose that confidence in the institutions that we must ensure that it never fails. [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u80	I address the Assembly's greeting to a group of entrepreneurs from FederlegnoArredo, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u83	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Madam President, the North League will of course not vote for this measure, either because it does not agree with the method by which it was brought to the debate in this House or because it does not share its content. On this occasion, after the thirty-fourth trust, we will express our dissent by not taking part in this vote. The vote of confidence has become a farce. Now, parliamentary activity, thanks to President-in-Office of the Council, has become a farce, a farce because by now legislative action takes place almost exclusively with decree-laws, through the position of the question of trust, making it impossible for Members, whether senators or Members, to contribute to the correction of the many errors of the measures brought in this House, through the amending action that should be a particular responsibility of Parliament. It is unacceptable that we are constantly having to return to measures already approved to make corrections, corrections due to poor management of the legislative activity by the Government and decrees that it continues to issue in a disorderly, inefficient and harmful way for the country. And this is yet another demonstration. Perhaps the milleproroghe, more than any other, is a measure that demonstrates the government's poor management of the public thing. In fact, this is a set of measures that aim to correct errors, postpone decisions, introduce often questionable, arbitrary and negative derogations for the country. It introduces ad hoc rules for the rescue of inefficient public bodies, with a slap on all those good administrators who try to do their duty well by managing well the resources of the citizens. In fact, it is an acknowledgment of the inability to govern, with efficiency and seriousness, the country. And for the umpteenth time this Government resorts to this instrument, perhaps even worse than all the thousand-pronged decrees approved over the years, adding errors on errors, iniquity on iniquity. I would like to give a few examples: the extension of fixed-term recruitment in some public administrations and in some state-controlled companies is a real injustice to all those public bodies which, on the other hand, have to deal with a reduction in staff, who try to administer the public thing well, not passing the state directives. Well, the Renzi Government decides, however, whether a given Ministry or a given State body can, by way of derogation from the rules that should apply to all, hire other staff. In most cases the milleproroghe offers this opportunity for the recruitment of managers, as if in Italy there were a number of managers insufficient to normal activities. Renzi, more than others, governs in this way, not carrying forward those policies of reduction of public expenditure, of which the mouth is filled but which, in fact, in concrete acts as these shows to be inattentive. We do not recognize ourselves in these measures, as we do not recognize in our attitude towards local authorities. It is not acceptable for a measure such as this to say that, for example, some provinces which have not approved the 2014 budget by 31 December can do so at the beginning of 2015. It is not possible to allow some municipalities in financial failure, by way of derogation from all the laws that apply to the local authorities, to be able to manage the public thing by always carrying out this type of behavior. Within this provision there is also this. It is not acceptable that, with regard to some regions, one in particular, just because it is politically close to the President-in-Office of the Council, the Stability Pact should be overtaken. There are public authorities, local administrators who daily account for the now unsustainable cuts imposed by the State - and by this Government more than any other - to limit public spending by trying to guarantee citizens, with the few resources available, the minimum essential services in compliance with the rules of the Stability Pact or iniquities. It is unacceptable for a serious government to apply ad hoc rules for some, letting those administrators who deal with a thousand difficulties that are naive and silly and do not deserve the confidence of this Executive and the President of the Council. They deserve the confidence of the citizens, while these measures are likely to lead them to believe that the only way to respond to the iniquity of the State is by not complying with the rules. This is the teaching of the Renzi Government and this one thousand-pronged decree. It is also unacceptable for spending policies to be implemented without adequate cover, a way in which this decree is demonstrated. Article 10 contains a hallucinating forecast: it is faced with expenses incurred in 2013 by the Letta Government which had as a safeguard rule to cover an increase in excise duties. This expenditure was subsequently covered by other imaginative measures, e.g. through the increased VAT revenue due to the payment of public administration debts. The expected increase in VAT revenue has not been achieved, the forecast proved to be wrong and attempts are being made to cover the non-introduction by increases in IRES and IRAP payments - in the face of a reduction in the tax on companies - or by an increase in excise duties. We are recording an accumulation of these safeguard clauses, i.e. future applications of increases in excise duties, taxes on businesses and VAT which will have to be dealt with sooner or later. With this decree-law, the solution to these problems is still moving forward, but sooner or later these safeguard clauses will have to be applied. Unfortunately, when the time comes the accounts with public opinion and citizenship will not make them Renzi, because his Government will have disappeared, but the damage to the country is doing it, spending and committing resources that are not there, that the Italian State does not have available. These are the main reasons why we do not agree with this measure. The thousand-pronged decree is the mirror of the inefficiency of this country and in particular of the current Government, which promises by playing prestigious games, using resources that are not there or moving the available resources from one side to the other without concrete effects. These are rules that commit the Government to implement reforms within a set time frame that the Government regularly disregards. There are also specific rules involving the interests of the few and certainly not of the community, such as the extension of motorway concessions. And there are a number of predictions that demonstrate the inefficiency and vexation of the state towards taxpayers and local administrators. These are sufficient reasons for us to say 'no' to this confidence and to this measure. We are also tired of participating in these farces. By now the votes of confidence have become farce and we want to subtract ourselves from the unbecoming spectacle of the Senate with completely empty benches; a spectacle that we are witnessing today, and we refuse to be at the service of a President-in-Office of the Council who has his own vision of democracy. We are surprised, though relatively, by the attitude of the Democratic Party, which is now famous for its dual morale: when there is an urgent decree by the center-right governments raises the shields, cries for scandal, it addresses the high institutional positions with which it also finds an answer; when it governs the Democratic Party, which evidently considers itself superior to all others and considers to govern in the name of the common good unlike the other parties, everything is allowed. There is the most total silence on these behaviors which delegitimize parliamentary activity. There is total servility towards the President-in-Office of the Council, who is doing good and bad time and who is unfortunately taking this country to disaster. In fact, beyond his slogans, his promises, his chatter, this is a country in crisis and only he does not see it. He does not see it and hopes, with his bold attitude, to give it to the Italians. The moment will come, the moment will come when, at last, the Italian citizens will realize that in front of them they do not have a decision-maker, a serious person, but a juggler, a magician, a President-in-Office of the Council who is deceiving all of us. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u86	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, we in the Misto-SEL Group will not be able to vote in favour of trust in the Government; moreover, confidence in a government is not given to a measure, which is not legal and, above all, political in nature, as can be a highly articulated decree-law, which has the sole objective of extending some provisions and including others which would be of urgency. The confidence is given on other: on general political content, on a plan of important interventions in support of the national community, on a program of breath, on an analysis of the abilities of the men and women engaged in the government, that corresponds to the needs to overcome the economic and social crisis that crosses the country and therefore on the ability to manage, in the best possible ways, the critical situations present in the international scenario. Clearly, we will not vote for the government's confidence, because all these elements are not contained in this provision. I will not analyse the individual aspects of this measure. I'm also not interested in it. The reading is quite simple and each of us can do it, having available the tools that allow each citizen, entering the site of the Senate or the Chamber of Deputies, to verify what are the legislative provisions extended in their effectiveness. I am more interested in expressing the impression that we draw from the content of this measure. The impression is that we are faced with a country not in decline, more, with disaster; this is not because of the responsibility of the current government, nor because at the end of the year we approve this type of measure. Over the last ten years it has been called a thousandprorogues, before it was called a budgetary settlement and in it, at the end of the financial year, financial rules were introduced. There has always been, and it is physiological that there is a provision that at the end of the year, by analyzing the problems of the country, tell what problems have been solved, which administrative procedures are bogged down and which need a few months, a little time to breathe. There has always been a measure that gathered these needs and allowed the administration to meet them. It's physiological. What's pathological? It is clear, among other things, from the content of this measure. It is pathological how the public apparatus, the state machine, works in an absolutely inefficient and obnoxious way. It's schizophrenia. We could talk about a test tube full of blood taken to do the analysis and give an example. First we talked about the need to maintain the liquidating commissioner management of the 2006 Turin Olympics Management Committee because there is a dispute. I invite the presidency of the Senate to instruct our offices to analyse how many commissioners exist in Italy at local, regional and national level. It is a question of understanding the state of those managements after ten years of start-up. It would suffice to discover that they are all bogged down within a very complex system of litigation to understand that this is a country that does not work. In fact, when for years they are dragging police agencies for the liquidation of lines of public administrative activity because there is a problem of litigation, it means that we have a system intended to manage the litigation that does not work. A dispute cannot last for twenty years, nor can it drag the police agencies, which are all burdensome. The State did not think of setting up a public office, in which 50 accountants and 20 lawyers would be able to deal with all the police agencies related to the public administration, so as to try to close them in three years, perhaps introducing the rules necessary to create privileged channels also for the examination in the courts, calling the judiciary to give the right advice so that that litigation can be closed and thus save money. No, we're gonna extend the police agencies one after the other. Is it possible that in the era of major institutional reforms, of the overthrow of the Provinces, we maintain the funding provided for by the founding laws of the Provinces? I do not think so, but it is enough to think very little and decide to deal with the problem and solve it, rather than writing an extension rule. I could go on, even if I don't care about the controversy and I say it the way I think it is. In the face of those who are scandalized because there is a thousand-pronged measure on which confidence is demanded not to let it decay I mean that, if the evictions take place - and I think that the extension that has been given is insufficient, but this is also one of the issues to be addressed - we will be faced with a major social problem, for which this provision must be introduced. I'm convinced she should have put on more constructs, but she needs to be put on. But this rule does not erase the problem of the house. And a healthy country does not pose the problem of extending evictions, but it poses the problem of how to allow there to be an effective right to the home of all its citizens, because it is right that no one lives sleeping in the stations or in the cars that recovers and transforms into a home. I shall conclude, Madam President, by saying this: we will not vote for confidence because unfortunately we do not find in the current Government the ability to deal at the root with the problems for which, by means of a measure which is now customary, we extend the time-limits already expired of existing rules. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u89	TORRISI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we come to the adoption of a measure that is rich in content necessary for the country, after a quick passage into the Commissions of merit in the Senate. I stress the fruitful work done in the Chamber of Deputies, which has greatly improved the basic text of the decree, after a long and thorough investigation phase. We would have liked to improve the text also in the Senate, but the times for the conversion of the decree did not allow us to do so. We hope that with the next decrees also the great competences present in the Senate of the Republic can make an effective contribution to the improvement of the measures adopted. The People's Area Group (NCD-UDC) will vote in favour of the confidence placed by the Government and wants to refute a certain demagogy present in the parliamentary debate, first of all on the so-called inopportunity of the milleproroghe. This is a legislative action that has been necessary for many years and for different legislation to fix, improve and give continuity to existing legislation. The other issue we want to challenge is the criticism of the urgent decree and the vote of confidence. It must be recognised, also out of respect for the citizens, that whoever has ruled in the last twenty years has made the same use of this institution. The decree of urgency and trust are necessary in order to govern a complex and difficult reality of the country, in the current phase of the bicameral system and with the regulations in force. I therefore disagree with those who continue to emphasise this disrespect towards Parliament. I believe that it is disrespectful not to make reforms and not to put Parliament in a position to have a regulation and rules that regulate it that are more efficient. From this point of view, I believe that this majority and this government are doing an excellent job. Entering into the substance of the measure, the various provisions are made in continuity with many measures already adopted by the current Government and aim to extend deadlines or deadlines whose importance requires a delay over time. I believe that, for the commitment and initiative of many parliamentary groups and also for the intrinsic value of the measure, the most important rule is that of the combined provisions of the two rules concerning VAT consignments, freelances and INPS retentions. It had left itself outside the law of stability - and this was a neglect and a mistake - the category of young professionals and VAT consignments not registered in professional orders. This legislation has given the possibility of opting for one or the other simplified regime and the progression of the INPS contribution has also been blocked. This is a measure that enhances young professionals, their professionalism, their knowledge, their ability and their courage, which are an important factor for the growth and development of this country. With regard to the mobility of the Provinces' personnel, the subject of a relocation process provided for by the Stability Act for 2015, Article 1 of this Decree provides that the resources for the extended recruitment, for which it was not submitted by the date of entry into force of the decree specific request to the competent administrations, can be used for the mobility of the Provinces' personnel, according to the rules provided for by the Delrio law. In order to encourage investments in a strategic sector such as culture, the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism is allowed to carry out, in 2015, recruitments by way of derogation from the planned block, limited to specialized professional profiles. The current government has made school and school building a central point of its programme. Therefore, the measure further differs to 31 December 2014 the term for the assignment of the work of requalification and safety of the state schools, as well as to 28 February 2015 that for the custody of the same works in the Regions in which the measures of suspension of the procedures as a result of litigation have taken place. In the measure there are, in any case, numerous proposals from the parliamentary groups of the People's Area. I refer to the rule on price anticipation for the contractor, which extends until 31 December 2016 the rules allowing the contractor to pay, in contracts relating to works, an advance of 10% of the contract amount, by way of derogation from the current price anticipation bans. With exclusive reference to contracts relating to works entrusted following calls for tender or other custody procedure initiated after the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of this Decree-Law and until 31 December 2015, the advance of the contract amount shall be increased to 20%. Another highly appreciated rule concerns the suspension until December 31, 2014 of the tax, contributory and insurance obligations for the private employers and the self-employed operating in the territory of the island of Lampedusa following the declaration of the state of emergency in relation to the exceptional influx of citizens belonging to the Countries of North Africa. We have supported the rule that the payment of soft loans in the areas affected by the earthquake in Emilia should be suspended for a period not exceeding 12 months, for those who have contracted soft loans to provide for the payment of the taxes, contributions and suspended premiums due from 1 December 2012 to 15 November 2013, or the rule that the possibility of installment of tax debts for taxpayers who have fallen from the benefit of the installment through a new plan, articulated up to a maximum of seventy-two monthly installments. In order to facilitate the return of workers to Italy, the Chamber has also extended until 2017 the tax incentives provided for this purpose. For such persons, employee income, corporate income and self-employment income will contribute to the formation of the tax base for the purposes of the income tax of individuals to the extent of 20% for workers and 30% for workers. Other provisions worthy of attention touch on many areas and categories: from the rule extending to 2017 the 100% increase in the quota granted to the municipalities on the basis of the greater sums collected by the participation of the municipalities in the action to combat tax evasion, to the one extending the terms of the discipline of the zones to zero bureaucracy in the territories of the provinces of Bologna, Modena, Ferrara, Mantua, Reggio Emilia and Rovigo, affected by seismic events of 20 and 29 May 2012; from the norm extending the conventional relationships in existence from the provincial school office of Palermo for the performance of functions corresponding to those of school collaborator, to the block of evictions, from the recognized tax credit for every worker assumed indefinitely in the areas of the Mezzogiorno, to the extension of the contracts of the employees of the centers for employment, waiting for the reorganization of the functions of the Provinces. This analysis shows that the measure is rich in rules that guarantee the survival or recovery of essential sectors of the country. Certainly everything is perfect and a scrutiny of the merit committees in the Senate would allow an even richer and punctual text. We consider it a good starting point that People's Area will vote firmly and will seek to enrich in an improved way in the future measures that will see the Houses of Parliament address thorny but vital issues for the reformative drive of the country, from school to competition. The People's Area does not shy away from its reformist thrust and will therefore vote firmly for confidence in the measure. [[Applause from Senator Albertini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u92	CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, we have now heard that the People's Area Group will vote in favour. The measure also contains a fine extension concerning political parties: the possibility of requesting funding was extended to 15 February. I wonder if it's an extension ad partitum, if there's a party. Apart from the jokes that we allow ourselves to make, the problem, once again and sadly, is that we are faced with the 35th confidence of this bright and exciting Renzi Government. This government, being so shiny and able to impose its confidence and its power in this cast world and in this Parliament so sad that we even want to eliminate the possibility of voting on senators, with this wonderful push it asks these ectoplasms of senators to press a button and the senators carry out. Since we carry out the will of this amazing government, which always makes us feel - I dare say - excited, we find ourselves in this strange condition so that once again it is dominant and more and more we are faced with the centralization of powers in his hands: but who knows if it is not the case to remind ourselves that ours is a parliamentary Republic? Who knows? And who knows that it is not necessary to remember also that the Government can intervene with decree-laws, only in case of necessity and urgency? Who knows if it's urgent? And who knows if the question of trust is not a transversal way to impose the will of the government on Parliament? Who knows why, although we are reminded that we are working well and that the House and Senate Regulations are done so well, we asked you to enter the prohibition for the Government to ask the question of trust on decree-laws? In fact, it really seems to me the minimum union: you not only make a decree-law, but you also put the question of trust in it; at this point, on the terracotta boiled water. We are once again, as is often the case, thinking about something that is the opposite of what should be our parliamentary Republic. Our position, therefore, cannot but be opposed, but it is profoundly opposed, in method and approach. It would be nice for the government to learn that it is called Executive because, theoretically, it is its power, while the legislative power is at the head of another body. The government could make a decree-law, for example, if something really important happened: as a bell, I imagine - but I hope never - that the Eruption of Vesuvius and the Government make a decree-law; perhaps, in that case the urgent requirements would be there. However, I do not think that urgent requirements are there when, for example, we have to extend the possibility for motorway dealers to merge and therefore not race for motorway concessions: do we prolong these crap? Is this right? It is right to remind us, once again, that the motorway dealers pay 2.4 percent of the net amount to the State and that instead the State collects 700 million euros per year for the motorway concessions, but that the profit of the concessionaires has been 8,5 billion in the last five years? And we're going through this stuff to avoid races? But do we want to be ashamed of ourselves? Should we be ashamed a little bit, since the Government does not do so (and besides I don't know how it does: perhaps because it does not have a human face, but bronze, so difficult to shame)? It will be the case that we start to shame ourselves in here and maybe it would be nice to have a whisper of dignity and also be present in the Chamber (it wouldn't hurt, since then we come, we press the button and say "yes" or "no"). But can we be mere performers of someone else's will? Or you don't want to start saying, "Is it you who must do our will?" Moreover, as you know, we would like even more, namely that the will be brought even more to the level of the people. As you know, we have this great drive and the desire to integrate more and more the ability of the people to act directly: these are our will, our ideality and our world, what we would like. As long as we are in a parliamentary Republic, however, let us at least make it work as such. We are told that it was a good thing that the minimum regime was safeguarded: but who had changed it, the government? If then the government has realized that it's done something stupid and backs up, it's not that it's going to be good now, but it's been stupid before. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Put the dots on the dots. Let's remember these things. My colleagues have already spoken about the famous and wonderful 80 euros: part of the coverage comes from the return of capital from abroad; but if this money doesn't happen? What do we do? Very well, let's say to the Italians: "We increase the IRAP deposit." But the down payment means that I pay taxes today for next year. I say this for those who do not remember what the down payment is, and already today the down payment is 100% of what I paid. Because before I did this job I had the VAT number, I always happened to pay taxes in advance for the following year. Only that the deposit is 100 percent of what I have to pay; but does this seem normal to you? Is this the state in which we live? A poor VAT number that produces an income and causes this living world to ever pay taxes in advance? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What are we talking about? Then you say that we caress ourselves; this happens because before we enter here we had a normal life and what we discuss we lived on our skin. There's too many people in here who forgot what they were before, maybe because they never really worked or maybe they never worked with the VAT number or maybe they never asked for a loan in the bank. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , and you do not know, therefore, what it means to make an advance on invoice or you do not know how much it is the rate that the bank does when you go to ask for a loan! Maybe you should remember that. You should ask for a bank loan to figure out how banks can destroy you. And what do we keep doing? We continue to subsidise the banks with that other crap of the competitiveness decree-law with which we are giving all the power in the hands of the banks. But when do you rebel? I'm telling you, senators, (at least to those who are present, or what am I talking about doing?). I don't care what the government wants to do. The government carries out our will. When do we rebel and say "just" to him? When do we put the collective interest, the interest of the citizens at the centre? So we can't vote for this umpteenth crap of trust. You vote for it. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u95	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, there are many reasons for opposition to the thousand-pronged decree and there are many reasons for dissent on this request for confidence. It's not a thousand, but certainly a large number. Moreover, the number of requests for confidence is high, in total contempt and mortification of parliamentary work. It would be understood if the Government had in-depth investigations into the various dossiers and various measures taken by the ministerial offices and brought perfect, unassailable measures, then the poor parliamentarians, without any elements to deepen they could or should follow the Government. But this is not the case: all too often the government's measures have wrong cover, which are reviewed in the course of examination; they have confusing and inappropriate rules, on which the government is then forced to back down. In this measure there are at least two important backward steps: the one on the minimum and the one on the contribution rates for the self-employed. The Government, a few days after the approval of the 2015 Stability Act, had to rethink the new minimum regime just introduced and return to its steps. The possibility for 2015 to enter the minimum scheme at 5% instead of 15% under the new flat-rate scheme is now confirmed. In summary, a triple channel remains active throughout 2015, on the minimum system: a new flat-rate system reformed by the 2015 Stability Act (at a rate of 15%); the old regime (at a rate of 5%), accessible to VAT consignments that collect up to 30,000 euros per year and the system provided for by Law No 244 of 2007, always reserved for income up to 30,000 euros, with a rate of 20%. Be careful, however, the government does not put wrong taxes, because it risks "killing the beast." The beast is the many VAT matches that are struggling to move forward and which cannot be taxed too much, much less at a time when there is still a hard time seeing the light to get out of the tunnel, despite some indicators being objectively positive. The Government has also been forced to revise the provisions on contributions rates for the self-employed members of the separate management of the INPS adopted in December in the Stability Act. Among other things, the article is not a simple extension, but introduces new provisions and rates in this area. It does not, therefore, have any of the requirements to enter into a decree-law that draws its homogeneity of matter in the implementation of extensions. The reduction concerns self-employed persons with a tax position for VAT purposes and who are neither pensioners nor members of other compulsory pension schemes. The rate remains, therefore, at 27 percent instead of increasing to 30 percent, which would have been a real blood loss. However, the increase remains at 28 percent in 2016 and 29 percent in 2017. The intent to tax, by the Government of the taxes is therefore only postponed. We would like to be able to understand what a vision the Government has of the productive world and of the economy, if, among the items of the public budget, it only thinks about those of the income: more taxes and property taxes everywhere, as happened yesterday here, in the Senate, with an anachronistic measure that takes 268 million euros from the pockets of the farmers, introducing a real property tax on the land. The various issues raised in this decree-law are 117, in total contempt, as all colleagues have already pointed out, of the homogeneity of matter provided for by the Constitutional Court, reaffirmed by several judgments of the Council. So Renzi is mocking Parliament and the Council. We hope that the President of the Republic of Mattarella will not allow him to be mocked by the constitutional referee as well and that the procedures for the urgent decree will be included in the Charter of Fundamental Rights. Among other things, a year ago, at his inauguration, Renzi had said: "Enough with the so-called thousandprorogues" decrees, except then to confirm for the conversion the decree-law one thousandprorogues at the end of the year of the Letta Government and to issue, a few months later, a provision that contained further extensions of provisions of law and today raises the question of confidence on one that contains, precisely, more than one hundred; therefore, the so-called scraper continues to adopt exactly the same practices of the First Republic. On the contrary, because, as a rule, extensions relate to end-of-year deadlines or fall at the beginning of the new year. The President-in-Office of the Council, as I said, is even able to do more by extending the deadlines that have now been set and to revive a whole range of rules for recruitment in the public administration. You have to be careful here. In fact, an account is to safeguard certain working positions (e.g. those relating to the mobility of Province staff), just as it is necessary to take into account the sectors that suffer, such as the public safety and fire department; another account is to set in motion an important number of recruitments, providing for the anchoring to perhaps dated spending constraints, without considering an overall redesign of the role and functions of the public administration. Here we are saying: we are completely ignoring a bill of delegation, which is of government initiative and which redesigns the perimeter and functions of the public administration. Among other things - allow me - this is done with spending commitments and, therefore, financial cover, which are taken for granted, but whose effective consistency is all to be verified. In fact, it must be verified that any commitment to expenditure recorded and not used in previous years has actually contributed to the formation of budgetary savings in the same year. I say this in less technical terms: be careful that, if that money is not there, you have to put it again. Impietosa is the photograph of yesterday of Confcommercio on the public accounts. Current expenditure continued to increase between 2013 and 2014 (i.e. during the Renzi Government year), from 769 billion euros to 775 billion euros and the total outputs increased from 827 billion euros to over 835 billion euros. I would like to remind you that current expenditure is what we will find ourselves in the years to come and that it does not help economic growth; on the contrary, it is a burden for public finances and for our children. Similarly, the level of taxation is alarming. I refer, in particular, to the taxation on real estate, passed from 27.8 billion in 2013 to 31.8 billion in 2014, with an increase of 4 billion in a year, entirely attributable to the Renzi Government, to the face of the pronounced reduction of taxes. Compared to the last year of Government Berlusconi the increase was 17 billion euros: from 14.8 billion Berlusconi to 31.8 billion Renzi. The Government's action has so far manifested two characteristics. First of all, the inability to take decisive decisions, since many of the measures taken during this year of government do not comply with the decrees of implementation. Secondly, the decisions taken are often to be corrected in successive measures, because they are wrong, as we have seen, for the minimum system and for the rate for the self-employed. These are just two examples. At this moment the most obvious symptom of the uselessness of certain measures, with redundant names, is the so-called decree-law unblocks Italy, which, precisely, had to restart the Italian yards and the economy of the Bel Paese. The measure provided for the issuing of 47 implementing decrees. To date, only 3 have been issued, but about 400 decrees have been required so far for the implementation of the Renzi programme. To these should be added 348 implementing measures inherited from the Governments Monti and Letta, not yet implemented, of which Renzi is the natural heir, being part of the "club of the unelected." Among the measures not activated, because waiting for the implementing decrees are: the digital agenda, the sustainable industry, the vouchers for SMEs, the tax credit for research and innovation, the patent box. These are all measures that could affect the growth potential of businesses and GDP: these measures could have an estimated impact of 1.8%. There is also a risk of losing that boost to GDP growth, which comes from favourable external factors: the low oil price, the favourable exchange rate of the euro, the best conditions for world trade, the injections of money by the European Central Bank which have a favourable impact on business interest rates and consumption. Surely, the most important measure taken by the Renzi Government was the bonus of 80 euros, then became tax credit. We then said that it was an unfair measure, because it was not of interest to the neediest. Now Confcommercio also confirms the futility of that measure, which has not had any thrust on consumption. On the same EUR 80, the Court of Auditors also notes that they have also weighed public expenditure, because they have been financed with other taxes and not with expenditure reductions. Moreover, the serious burden of the safeguard clauses remains, also reported by the Court of Auditors and the various study centres; if they are not defused, they will lead to higher taxes up to €72 billion between 2015 and 2018. One of these safeguard clauses is now being neutralized in this thousand-pronged decree. They cover 671 million euros of increase for 2015 of excise duties on petrol and diesel with the amounts that will derive from the sanctions for those who will bring back the money in Italy from Switzerland, nation with which a protocol was signed, in this matter as we learned a few days ago. Do we realize the randomness of this cover? And how many more in the last year's measures can we make the same observation? When, instead, will the government take the main road to reducing public spending? As a year ago, therefore, we cannot give trust to the Renzi Government and the vote of the Forza Italia Group to this trust will be a strong and decisive. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u98	SANTINI (PD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the subject we are debating today - the decree-law for the extension of time limits - has been the subject of many very critical speeches in this House, on which I believe we need some clarification. It has been said that the decree-law extends terms represents a serious condition of the legislative and administrative process, for some even outside the Constitution and which indicates a resounding inability of the Government. However, I believe that the Members who support this thesis in part have perhaps lost their memory of when they were in the majority - those who were in the majority - and have supported this practice for years without blinking, in infinitely larger dimensions: just compare the data. The decree-law thousand extensions stems from a parliamentary affair, I think, of 2009, with a decree-law in which 2,000 extensions were inserted. The Members who have entered this parliamentary term, who have made even stronger criticisms, perhaps have not spoken with their colleagues in the House, who, pragmatically, have shown great interest in the issues of the decree-law, actively participating in the amending work. It is therefore not a useless decree-law, but a necessary measure not to interrupt the implementation of rules, or to cope - why not say so? - new problems that often arise from emergency situations: think of natural disasters or the issue of refugees in Lampedusa. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not just a decree-law for the needs of the Government, which in an alleged authoritarian drift wants to eliminate the role of Parliament. I consulted the proceedings of the Chamber and it turns out that in the original decree-law there were 80 extensions, while 82 others were inserted by the Parliamentary Commissions, receiving proposals from all the Groups, which clearly testify that the measures were necessary and represent solutions useful to the problems of the Country. Rather, a problem should be pointed out in this year's specific event: a disproportion in the times of discussion of the decrees law between the two chambers, which unfortunately penalize the role of one of the two branches, more frequently the Senate. It is time to adopt the proposal, which emerged yesterday in the work of the Commissions 1a and 5a, that the Presidents of the Chamber and Senate, in assigning the decrees-laws, establish in a binding way an equal distribution of the times. In this way the possibility of both branches to discuss the rules with the necessary time and opportunities for interlocking is safeguarded. On the substance, therefore, the decree-law gives useful solutions and in many ways expected to the real problems of the citizens. For example, with regard to the system of minimums and VAT consignments contained in this measure, we have granted to the many young people who were excluded from the Stability Act by the so-called 5% regime under the age of 35 years, we have granted an extension to 2015 which will allow them to choose to continue to benefit from the minimum scheme at 5% or the new minimum regime introduced by the Stability Act, which, moreover, I would like to remind Senator Cioffi, represents for many other workers' audiences (I think of the self-employed in trade and craft) a real improvement. So it was a right rule that had to be corrected, as has been done. With this rule we guarantee the alternation of the choice between these regimes and an additional possibility, therefore, no less, for the many young people who will be able to benefit from this system. The same objective is to block the INPS contribution (non-taxation, Senator Mandelli) that concerns young people, in the separate management of the INPS, with a cost of 360 million euros of missed revenue in three years, with the total block for 2015 and partial for 2016 and 2017. This is a cost today but we believe that it can be considered an investment, useful to the country and for the many young people who today see their pension away and who have daily difficulties in keeping their VAT numbers active, that allows them to work, and therefore they must be helped, even if they know that this will reduce their pension possibilities, and therefore we will have to intervene again at a later time. But it is also important to talk about evictions, as has been said. With the decree we allow many people in difficulty to get not a generic lock-out for a very short term of four months, because they are people who have already started the transition from home to home and needed the necessary time to complete it without remaining without prospects. In this case, therefore, urgency is really an important requirement. The Government also complements a framework which, in previous measures, through the support of the National Fund, had provided substantial resources to support interventions for those most in need. It is therefore a rule in the direction of fairness and support. Finally, the interventions relating to local authorities, provinces, regions and metropolitan cities - we all know that, why not say so? - relate to objective needs which have been pointed out many times by the ANCI, the UPI, the Conference of Regions and respond to the need to overcome, even with limited derogations from the rules, situations of real administrative emergency (the failure is the word that most resorts) and to give more time to rehabilitation paths. But there are also rules that are useful for reforms, and I quote two: to extend 100% of the revenue from tax evasion for the municipalities is to encourage them to combat tax evasion; to maintain resources for employment centres is to help job reform and relocation of people. On the social level, it should also be stressed here that the extensions respond to strong needs, such as the refinancing of the Cassa Integrazione Guadi, which concerns everyone, each Province every Parliamentary Group (we are all urged), and the extension is for the next twenty-four months, which was unfortunately not guaranteed by the legislative mechanism; the refinancing of the solidarity contracts for another 50 million euros; the measures on asbestos and also for the beneficiaries of the incentives to photovoltaics that would have been lacking in the event of disasters, as well as the rules to tax incentives - no one has talked about it - the return of the Italian brains that went to work abroad, for necessity and not for choice. We have tried to respond with this measure to the major social, economic and institutional needs. These choices go towards a more reformist, fairer Italy. Many speeches heard today from a country that tends to disaster, without guidance, are really ingenious and are out of reality that sees, if anything, an excess of will for reforms, which therefore also create the problem in Parliament. But all this is to restore a perspective to this country, to ensure that those reforms that the country needs are finally made; not as in the past years, in which they were always postponed. We will continue on this path, to try to build a country that gives more strength to growth, employment and families. We will do so with determination and conviction. The judgment on this measure is good, therefore, also (and I would like to remind you here) for the work of Parliament (in this case only the House, but always Parliament is concerned), which has made it better, fairer and more effective. As a result, I firmly declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour of the government's confidence.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u99	As agreed by the Conference of Leaders, I suspend the sitting until 4 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 4 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u100	The session is resumed. I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 1779, of conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 192, 31 December 2014, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. They asked to vote first, and I granted it, Senators D'Onghia, Auricchio, Cardinals, Di Biagio, Di Giorgi, Esposito Stefano, Fravezzi, Giannini, Guerra, Nencini, Olivero, Puglisi, Romani Paolo, Stefano and Zavoli. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Capacchione is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Capacchione. Barani, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre, Augello, Azzolini Battista, Berger, Bertuzzi, Bianconi, Bonaiuti, Borioli, Broglia, Bubbico Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Casini, Cassano, Casson, Chiavaroli, Chiti, Cirinna, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Conte, Corsini, Cucca, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Mananna, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Di Giacomo, Filippin, Fincchiaro, Finsore, Finsore, Formigoni, Esposito Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbari, Fasiolo, Fattorini, Favero, Fideli, Ferrara Elena, Filippi, Finpin, Fincchiaro, Fincori, Fincori, Fincori, Fingo, Fingo, Fingori, Fingo, Fingori, Fingo, Fingoni, Forni, Fiangoni, Fiangoni, Fiangoni, Fiango, Fiango, Fiangoni, Fiangoni, Fiangoni, Fiango, Fiangoni, Fiangoni, Fianno, F, Fiangoni, Fianco, Fianco, Fianzio, Fianzio, Fianzio, Fianzio, Fianzio, Fianzio, Fianzio, Fianzio, Fianzio, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran The senators: Airola, Alicata, Amidei, Amoruso, Aracri, Auricchio Barani, Barozzino, Bencini, Bernini, Bertorotta, Blundo, Bocchino, Bottici, Bruno, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Caliendo, Campanella, Cappelletti, Carraro, Casaletto, Castaldi, Catalfo, Cervellini, Cioffi, Compagnone, Conti, Cotti D'Alì, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Pin, Donno Fattori, Ferrara Mario, Floris, Fucksia Gaetti, Gambaro, Giro, Girotto Liuzzi, Lucidi Malan, Mandelli, Mangili, Marton, Matteoli, Mauro Giovanni, Mazzoni, Moronese, Mussini Nugnes Paglini, Pelino, Perrone, Petroglia, Petraglia, Pugelli, Mangili, Scelli, Marton, Matteo, Mattheoli, Matteo Rosso Rosso Rossoni. The senators are abstaining: Orellana. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 1779, of conversion into law, with amendments, of the decree-law n. 192, December 31, 2014, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 236 Senators voting 235 Majority 118 Favorable 156 Contrari 78 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 192 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u101	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-400.ana.u102	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 3 March 2015, at 12 noon, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.51 a.m.
