ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.10 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u3	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time), pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, on recruitment, training and career of school teaching staff and on questions concerning access to university and recruitment of university teaching staff, to which the Minister for Education, University and Research, Senator Giannini, will respond. It should be noted that RAI's live television is underway. So let us turn to questions about the recruitment, training and career of the school's teaching staff. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u6	Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). Madam Minister, as you well know as a senator, we are devoting real attention to the rights of children, with measures such as those on foster care and adoption, voted unanimously yesterday, or those adopted in the first Commission, always unanimously, on provisions for the protection of minors for the prevention and fight against cyberbullying, an issue on which you, Minister, have committed yourself. It is necessary to prevent and combat youth distress, school dispersal, and to create more aware citizens. The reform of good school puts the student and his learning needs at the centre, aware of the need to raise the general level of skills and among these creative and relational ones. The artistic experience acquires value not only to harmonize the world of education with that of cultural production, but also to form better citizens. Families, children, and teenagers are asking. Music, theatre and dance can be the test of good school! It must also be possible to accompany the curriculum of the higher student with those artistic experiences, which must have real citizenship in the formative offer, as provided for in the UN Convention on the Rights of Childhood and Adolescence. Today we have a secondary school without music, except for the music schools for which (and this is serious) there is no specific class of competition, with recruitments that have excluded teachers engaged for years in the former psychopedagogic institutes, that is the schools where the teachers of the first cycle have been trained and that, in the passage to high school of the human sciences, have lost just the music. Yet, starting from the childhood school, we know that the presence of a musical workshop can make a difference; in the true school of autonomy, it acquires a significant role in osmosis with the territory: bands, schools of music and dance, theatrical companies. We know the many virtuous experiences and good practices and I refer to them. Can you tell us, then, what measures are envisaged in the reform that you will shortly approve in order to enhance musical and artistic training? At strategic level, do you not think that a stronger partnership with the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism is inescapable to facilitate and encourage, also through the regions and local authorities, the three-year plans of the training offer, which will be the fundamental instruments of planning school autonomy?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u9	LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). Mrs. Giannini, the Renzi Government has, with the usual communicative skills, advertised the plan of good school. In the premises of the document it is said: "What we will be able to do about the school will determine the future of everyone, more than a financial one, more than a spending review." A slightly unhappy joke, considering that one of the main problems of the Italian school is precisely the amount of resources put in place. Every choice regarding recruitment, the extension of the training offer, the full time in primary school, the end of the supplements, the end of the precarious, the public competitions to hire young teachers, has a cost and requires a precise financial coverage of the measures that the Government will want to adopt. Alongside this basic, economic, state accounting problem, there is a substantive problem as to how we intend to arrive at a European school. Forza Italia certainly agrees to establish new ways of recruiting the staff of the school sector in order to avoid the formation again precarious. But he also hopes to remove the salary and career automatisms that end up rewarding everyone: good and thorough teachers and mediocre teachers. The first (and there are so many) are interpreters of that singular profession of gift (as Marcel Henaff, French sociologist, said) which is teaching, priceless and not quantifiable in the same way as the parameters of gross domestic product; the second, which unfortunately exist, which undermine the credibility of the Italian school. There is therefore a need for a high level of productivity and in school the level of productivity is linked to the quality of teaching. We ask the minister Giannini what is the path that will lead to the announced assumption of 148,100 teachers in the 2015-2016 biennium, through the emptying of the graduations to exhaustion (the so-called AGE) and the assumption of the winners and the eligible of the 2012 contest and how we intend to proceed for the assumption of the estimated additional 40,000 teachers in the following three years. We also ask whether the resources have already been properly identified, because in our view there is an underestimating of the costs and probably the number of teachers to be employed should result from the resources identified. But above all, we would like to know if we do not intend to introduce an overall system of evaluation on the quality of teaching, in the absence of which we will be faced with a major electoral operation that will weigh on public finances, but will not solve the problem of the overall quality level of the Italian school.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u12	BLUNDO (M5S). Minister, the recruitment of some 150,000 precarious people has been repeatedly proclaimed by the Renzi Government, always ensuring the financial cover. In recent weeks, however, we have read in the newspapers discordant figures, without having been made clear about the actual economic availability put in place by the government for the stabilization of the precarious of the school sector, generating many concerns among the workers. The truth, Minister, is that you are obliged to take care of the precarious because the European Court of Justice imposed it, and it is the only urgent issue to be addressed. I would like you to finally clarify today the resources you intend to devote to the recruitment of school workers who are too often illusory and disillusioned. I remind you that some of them have been serving for 10 years and in some cases even longer. With regard to the latter and the answer given yesterday by Minister Boschi to the question time of the House, I would like to understand how they intend to recognize the rights of these people. I would also like to know how the Government intends to deal with exhausted classes of competition and, above all, what measures will be taken for those classes which, following the abolition of important subjects of education such as finance science and law, no longer have the opportunity to see their specificity and professionalism recognized. Within this fragmentation of the precariousness I would like to know when and how will be resolved the absence of a specific class of competition for the teachers of the musical high schools, as well as the situation of the class A077, or the teachers of musical instrument. This is a gap that must be filled and that goes in addition to that immediately from the more than 2,000 precarious of the High artistic and musical formation which, with the lack of equalization to the university professors, do not have a clear position, and on whose situation the absence of a specific class of competition for the musical high school affects further. How do you intend to intervene?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u15	Conte (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mrs. Minister, one of the qualifying points of the good school plan is the stabilization of teaching staff. The precarious state and the alternation of teachers seriously undermine the continuity of teaching and the quality of teaching and, unfortunately, in recent years, we have experienced this negative situation in the Italian school institutions. The document now provides for the recruitment of a quota of about 150,000 teachers included in the exhausting rankings (GAE). In fact, the measure is going to heal an abnormal situation, which has arisen over time as a result of the different methods of access to teaching of teaching staff, which have been proposed in recent years. However, this forecast, which is necessary to reset the precarious situation and to restart with the procedure for carrying out periodic competitions, is to be considered as suitable for recruitment of staff. Its implementation, however, opens up a number of issues. Many teachers included in the rankings have short teaching experiences. Are all of them in possession of the necessary requirements for the performance of the teaching functions? What steps does the Minister intend to take to qualify teachers who will be stabilised? And, in general, what does the Ministry envisage in order to implement the continuous and constant updating of teachers? A further problem arises from the forecast of the entry into the role only of the teachers included in the AGE, the graduations when exhausted, excluding the teachers belonging to other categories, such as the active training course (TFA). Will there be an ad hoc route for these too? The entry into office of the members of the run-down rankings precludes teachers who have been appointed in recent years and who have had as their first assignment a seat away from their residence to obtain the transfer within the framework of their own Province. Does the Minister consider it appropriate that, prior to the entry into office of the members of the AGE, the possibility be given to meet the needs of the teachers who have recently taken part, allowing the transfer within the Province of origin?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u18	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Minister, today's question time precedes the Council of Ministers this afternoon where, except for further referrals, the Government should approve the bill with the lines of implementation of the document of the reform of the good school. The anticipations of the measures concern us, because the idea of change at zero cost risks dangerously undermining the quality of the school. As you certainly already know, the school in recent years has suffered very heavy cuts - over 8 billion - that ministers Tremonti and Gelmini have brutally carried out: cuts that have hit the workers above all, making their future uncertain and precarious. And I am referring to the school workers to whom several enlistment systems have been introduced in recent years, because every minister who has installed has thought of a new one. Today, in Italy, the school records about 250,000 precarious, between teachers and ATA - we have asked questions several times for certain data and numbers, but we are still unanswered - the fate of which is still very uncertain. The recent ruling of the European Court of Justice states that precarious people who have 36 months of continuity in teaching must be hired because they cannot be insecure if they are working for an essential public service such as school. The government announced 150,000 hirings, then reduced to 120,000, but every day the numbers are less and less clear, because they change with each announcement. We would like to know how many recruitments and how many recruitments to the respective rankings of merit and exhaustion, to guarantee the functional staff, as well as how you plan to use the TFA enabled and the special enabling routes (PAS) and above all all all those who have abundantly exceeded the 36 months of continuous precariousness behind.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u21	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam Minister, since the first triumphant announcement by the President-in-Office of the Council about the recruitment of all the school's precarious, 30,000 teachers' stabilizations have already been lost on the streets and there is no certainty today about the other 120,000 that have been promised, with technical deadlines that will certainly prevent teachers from entering the role of the next school year. In the aftermath of yet another postponement of school measures, clearly there is only that announcements continue to be punctually denied by the facts. Let's hope something changes this afternoon. According to the Head of Government, in order to respect what is promised on teachers, there is no need for decrees and conditions to legislate in good time unless - in his opinion - the obstruction of oppositions does not block everything: it is always the fault of others! The Premier should take note, once and for all, that he lacks the guarantee of the financial cover of his wishes and communicate it to the Italians, instead of downloading the responsibility of any flops on the political opponents. We ask therefore to know if the government has definitively discarded the way of decree-law, the only viable to ensure the recruitment of teachers before the beginning of the next school year. Since it is one of the few times when the instrument of urgent decree would have been necessary and urgent, this time the government wants to exclude it. Moreover, since there is a real risk that thousands of precarious teachers, albeit good teachers, will lose their post following the decree of good school, we ask to know if the government text will also take into account the precarious ones not included in the graduations at exhaustion, which have gained a high level of training and experience in the field, which in some cases reaches ten years of teaching.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u22	The Minister for Education, University and Research, Senator Giannini, has the power to answer together after a small repress, because - although no one has mentioned it - the first thing I was taught at school is punctuality, and if I had arrived ten minutes late I should have brought the justification of the parents. For this time pass; the next one I want a justification from President Renzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u23	Mr President, of course I accept the repressing, I apologise to the kind senators and colleagues and I do not invoke the quarter hour academic, because it would be in bad taste and not relevant to the seat. I will try to respond, in the necessary summary, to the many ideas and very specific questions on a draft law - and this is the first answer I owe to Senator Centinario, since it is the way chosen by the Government - which will be presented at the forthcoming Council of Ministers to be held here at one hour. A measure that presents important innovations both in the matter of school autonomy, finally realized and not simply declared on paper, as has happened so far under the law of 1999, and in the matter of training and recruitment of teaching staff. All the points raised are therefore contained in the measure, which I will try to summarize. To the preceptive part of the draft law delegation is connected, including it, a delegation aimed at rearranging the whole set of the school regulatory system stratified over time, starting from the single text, and to systematize many subjects that need to be brought back and tuned with the project of good school. These are certainly crucial areas. There is no need for me to remember this here, and it is clear that there is an absolute need for constructive dialogue with Parliament. This is the fundamental reason why the Government chose the instrument of the bill rather than the decree of urgency. The project is ambitious, I don't hide it, and I would like to distinguish for factual correctness: not only communicative, which anyway is my responsibility, the journalistic comments that have happened during a very wide and long debate over time - and perhaps it is fatal and natural that this happens - and those that are the key points of the journey. I'll rehire them. The good school, in its original presentation of the formulation of an educational project, referred to the possibility of exhausting the 148,000 enrolled in the run-up rankings (it was the proposal that we had submitted to the long national consultation along with all the other topics), number which however reduced during this year due to the recruitments made and related to turnover. However, the figures, out of respect for a Council of Ministers which will open in about an hour, I will not give them here but at a press conference or at the end of the Council of Ministers and then during the evening. However, they are very precise and I immediately announce the criteria. It is confirmed an assumption plan for this year (2015-2016) that respects the principles, chosen definitively, of selection of the members to the merit rankings and the graduations when exhausted. I would point out that the number is identified and very clear, but I repeat that, out of respect, I will not say it here. The assumption plan - in response to the implicit and repeated reporting of various colleagues and good school commentators - does not derive from an obligation established by the European Court of Justice. The Court's ruling gives an indication on two very important and fundamental issues to which the bill gives a very precise answer: the immediate termination of fixed-term contracts on vacancies and available places and the activation of the competition as the only instrument for accessing the school career in our country, in line with the instruments that apply to other countries. This is an ambitious project which, as has been mentioned, requires resources. The resources are precise, they have already been allocated by the law of stability and will be described in detail in the draft law and in the report that we are going to make today at the Council of Ministers. At the moment I can give the summative figure: one billion for the current year and three billion for the regime. In the design phase we have also clarified a principle that has remained fundamental, namely: the extraordinary recruitment plan has as an indefectible premise the needs of the school. The subjects are therefore those indicated by the needs of the school and, consequently, of the training offered to the students. What are the principles on which the new educational model will be founded, which starts in 2015-2016 and which will take a few years to enter the regime in our country? An autonomous school in the educational and organizational choices, able to respond to the training needs, to the needs of the students and that has a wide and enhanced staff. The assumption plan and the consequent competition that will take place in the following calendar year restore this strengthening of the staff and I remember that, between the years 2009-2013, the Italian school has lost 80,000 teachers. The school will use all forms of didactic and organizational flexibility. This means a curriculum of the student - and so I respond to the observations of Senator Ferrara - in which optional choices can be made, but some disciplines will also be enhanced according to the guidelines indicated to the schools. Musical education, let me say in a broader way, is one of the disciplines to be strengthened, not only in primary school but also in secondary school, although we believe that primary school is the fundamental level, in our country so far neglected, from which to start with this type of competence. The school will also have a functional and organizational autonomy strongly linked to the strengthening of the responsibilities of the school manager, to whom they are distributed, as well as to the teachers, both the financial and the functional instruments so that we can reach that autonomy that has not yet been realized. Obviously, all this is linked to an evaluation plan of both teachers and managers and to a series of innovative responsibilities such as the possibility of choosing teachers on the basis of the needs of the school and the three-year educational project, which will ensure stability, as I have repeatedly mentioned in other locations, and the continuity of teaching that has been lacking at the Italian school until today. The three-year plan of the training offer will be drawn within the school, under the guidance of the school manager, based on the needs of the school, students and families, taking into account the thematic priorities I have just mentioned and which are now well known. In order for all this to happen, it is necessary to strengthen the staff and finally obtain the new staff of autonomy, which will allow to respond to the different training needs at different levels, and this is the reason why the extraordinary plan is a certainty of this school year. An important point, which responds in a timely manner to the European Court of Justice, as well as to a principle of quality of teaching and learning of our students, is that fixed-term contracts concluded with teaching, educational and administrative-technical staff at school institutions that exceed the total duration of 36 months will no longer be possible. So, this is an element I think very, very important. There will also be very innovative tools for the training of teachers, which becomes one of the fundamental components - we have said it on other occasions, but I want to reiterate it - both in the sense of self-training, possibly always organised in accordance with the educational plan of the individual school, and in response to guidelines of a more general nature. Another point that has been mentioned is, of course, the need to provide tools that are not simply relegated or confined to individual disciplinary powers. I am talking about the allusion that Senator Ferrara made to cyberbullying, which - alas - is, together with the school dispersal, although different manifestations, a phenomenon and indicator of social distress in some areas of the country really very worrying. The tools that we offer, besides designing an autonomous, open and flexible school (so linked to the needs of individual territories and projects), are others that I want to remember, even if they have not been punctually evoked, such as the alternation school-work and the greater connection of the training project with the world of enterprise and production. Territorial laboratories will also be another important element. I think these are the answers. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u26	Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). I thank the Minister for having explained to us a measure that must still be approved, but whose lines must be specified already from today in a timely way, because what has been said is really so much and often improper compared to the choices that the Government and the Ministry have made. I would like to stress that, in fact, the relationship with the school is witnessing the resumption of a desirable and important school autonomy on the territories, considering, however, also, that the Ministry does not fall back on the importance of giving directives. This is because we must absolutely guarantee standards, essential levels of training to our students, working together in this fabric and rooting in the fabric of our territories where school building, workshops, teacher training and interweaving with the third sector become fundamental. When I talk about agreement with MIBACT, I also think that tax deductions can be assumed for households which, for example, use third sector structures, which are very useful because their activity is linked to the training provided by public institutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u29	LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam Minister, I appreciate the holistic approach of your reply, but allow me to make a few brief comments. The good school is, in fact, an effect name, as it unlocks Italy. Minister Giannini may not know that of the 47 decrees foreseen by that measure, which was to restart the Italian economy, only three were issued. That is why we need to make decisions about school together with Parliament. Before taking any decision, therefore, I would urge you, together with the Minister for Economic Affairs, to assess the actual resources, which seem frankly inadequate to us. We all hope that the school will be good, better than the current school, which is not all to be thrown away. The temptation of the decree-law, Madam Minister, has escaped, we wish to work together with Parliament on the path towards a method of evaluating the quality of teachers, as well as the state, precisely, of precarious people. The precariousness and chronic alternation of teachers seriously undermines the continuity of teaching and the quality of teaching.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u32	BLUNDO (M5S). Minister, we thank you for clarifying the figure for the billion for the current year and for the three billions under the regime, which you have confirmed, but we do not have the reference to what you are talking about and what the expenditure chapter is. I hope that now, following the forthcoming Council of Ministers, further clarity will be given in your press conference. Although I have not been given any answer in this question time on the classes of competition of the music high school, the class A077 and the problem of the elimination of the teaching of law and the science of finance within the Italian schools, I also hope that these answers will come to us later from the next press conferences.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u35	Conte (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam Minister, in thanking you for the details you have given, I come back to the question of staff, which I believe is one of the cornerstones of the quality of our school. The way in which the Government does not resort to a decree-law is appreciated, but to refer to a bill, because this gives greater responsibility to the two branches of Parliament. However, I believe that the time is very short, so the recommendation I would like to make is to be able to comply with the timetable so that recruitment can already be carried out in the next school year, in order to implement immediately, for the new staff to be put in place, the methods of training and adaptation of the characteristics of teaching, as well as the mechanisms relating to the evaluation of the quality of teaching itself. I believe that recourse to age classes, simply linked to time, is a concept to be overcome and that it is necessary instead to arrive at an evaluation of the teacher and an economic progression closely linked to merit.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u38	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Minister, thank you for your speech, but you have confirmed our doubts about having set a question time today, just a few minutes from a Council of Ministers to approve the new draft law delegation. In fact, we expected concrete data, while it confirmed only what we have heard from his words in these days. We note that the 148,000 that were to be taken up by the rankings are reduced by those that have already been hired in 2014: this means that we are pursuing a recruitment plan already foreseen by the previous measures. We are not too worried about your statement - but we hope you have misunderstood - that the assumption plan does not stem from an obligation of the European Court ruling and that you will therefore ensure the immediate termination of fixed-term contracts. I hope that does not mean that the Government will help to increase the number of precarious persons.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u41	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Minister, I cannot tell you whether I am satisfied or not; to tell you the truth, I do not know: I wait this evening, when something concrete will come out of the Government and the Council of Ministers. The only thing we hope for is that the 150,000 assumptions that Renzi had promised Italian teachers will be fulfilled: it is a promise that he made and that, as such, must be maintained, not like all other things that are promised, but then they end up in oblivion. I continue to have a perplexity: we were of the idea that it was better to make a decree-law, and I explain why. This is your reaction, Minister, when you heard from the President-in-Office that it was no longer a decree-law, but a draft law: at a time when the Minister of Education has a reaction like his - albeit calm and polite, as in his style - I think something the President of the Council has "sucked it." I'm sure you do. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u42	Let us now turn to questions on issues relating to university access and recruitment of university teaching staff, to which the Minister for Education, University and Research, Senator Giannini, will reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u45	PHASE (PD). Mr President, my speech relates to students' access to closed-number faculties, with particular reference to medicine. Madam Minister, I would like to begin by thanking you for being here, shortly after a very demanding Council of Ministers, which will draw up a good school. I would like to draw your attention to a problem connected with the university, which many students are putting forward, concerning the evidence of access to certain faculties with a closed number. In my opinion, the current system of selection through tests at university faculties, in particular the discussed tests of medicine, with the recourses that have resulted, the fishing, as well as a general sanatoria, is a source of problems regarding both the timing (intellecting the timing of selection) and the contents of the tests. Certain is one thing: the central node lies in the current selection system. Particularly with regard to the faculty of medicine, it seems little rewarded the meritocracy, the attitude of the student (as a single test in a few hours can hardly establish the actual preparation) and even less the predisposition to a future and so demanding profession. For the way in which they are currently structured, the tests tend to favour those who have received a purely scientific school education or those who have more time and opportunity to deepen the topics likely to be the subject of the tests, finding themselves therefore the student often advantaged for more training, not always for greater attitude. I therefore ask you, Minister Giannini, if and how you intend to reconsider the admission method, considering other more effective assumptions, such as a pre-selection with a greater number of admissions at the initial level, and then at the end of the first year of the course proceed to a further evaluation on the basis of the profit and the attitudes found. These are also innovations, Minister, which would be beneficial to introduce as a result of the manifest inadequacy of the present system.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u48	LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the first thing that comes to mind, when you think of Italian universities, is the rankings, which place our best universities very far from the top positions in the international rankings. The evaluation is carried out on the basis of various indicators, which essentially measure the quality of teachers and the research carried out. From these comes the quality of graduates and their integration into the world of work. This must be served by universities: to give a preparation to the graduate so as to put him in competition with the professionals of the rest of the world. We must therefore ask ourselves whether the recruitment of teaching staff in Italian universities is appropriate or not, but whether the criteria governing research and scientific dissemination are adequate. In particular, the 2010 reform and its implementing decrees posed the serious problem of finding and using the resources to be allocated to universities. The aim was to redesign the basic features of the university system according to principles of effectiveness and efficiency, choosing a qualitative path for teaching careers and researchers. A more transparent system was also to be set up for the training of recruitment committees for university professors and researchers. A ceiling was also laid on staff expenditure in relation to ordinary funding for universities, which was exceeded by the ban on new recruitment. The measures adopted for the enhancement of merit also provided for a radical reform of the university system according to quality and efficiency objectives. The intention was to promote the excellence and merit of the best students through the award of prizes, good studies and honorary loans. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Form the question, Senator Liuzzi. LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). I'm closing, Mr. President. We ask Minister Giannini, of whom we know sensitivity, preparation, experience and attitude to confrontation, since part of that reform has identified the contexts and to some extent reached the goals that had been assigned, in which direction he intends to continue to confirm those objectives of quality and merit, pursued which also our universities will be able to compete with those foreign ones.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u51	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr Minister, with regard to the admission tests to the medical school, over the months there has been a change of direction repeated over time. Initially, in fact, I recall that you, Minister, had assumed to introduce in Italy a system that was inspired by the French model; then there was a raise of shields and you went back to your steps and said, in a hearing in the Chamber of Deputies, to the Permanent Commission of Expertise, that the maintenance of scheduled access is a firm point of the path to becoming doctors. Eliminating it would be a leap back into the past, damaging to the Italian health system that is one of the best in the world. I would like to ask you, first of all, if you confirm what you have said, because I believe that the quality of a health system and of a course of study are not only related to the number closed in access to the course of study itself; I also ask you, if it is conceivable, in the future, to start thinking about a French model. I'd like to ask you about the other mess, the admission test at the medical specialty school, what the Ministry intends to do. In the meantime, in fact, since the date of 3 November 2014, when you said - textual words - that the evidence will not have to be repeated, we have found a solution, they have started recourses: the classrooms of the specialization schools have grown because the number of students and so also the lanes (clearly, in fact, even if the situation, was partially waited, had not been prepared). I would like to know how the Minister intends to proceed on this point as well. In fact, there is not much clarity of intent. Finally, I would like to know how we are going to proceed with the admission tests to the medical school: we have returned in fact to the date of the first decade of September, there will be no new test, but some further information and information would not hurt.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u54	Conte (AP (NCD-UDC)). Minister, access to university faculties and specialization schools, which take place in the manner of the access test, is to be considered at least inappropriate due to the difficulty of verifying the student's overall level of knowledge: the result can very often be influenced by completely occasional factors. In recent years, then, there have been dysfunctions that have created situations of uncertainty and tension in the students and that have also generated litigation. It wonders whether new ways of accessing university faculties are envisaged, since the selection by testing is not always consistent with the actual level of preparation of the student and his aptitudes. Is it conceivable to free access to university faculties by providing for a strict barrier at the end of the first year if a minimum number of credits is not reached? And, where it is necessary to quote the number of members, is it conceivable to use the criterion of the score obtained at the exams of maturity that follows the overall training course of the student? It also asks what is the state of implementation of the reordering of specialization schools and what are the times and methods of accessing them.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u57	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Minister, the structured teachers in the universities have collapsed vertically, from 60,000 to 50,000 in six years: virtually zero turnover. In fact, not only 50-80 percent of organic retirement points have vanished in the name of rehabilitation, but new researchers hired thanks to the Gelmini law of 2010 are, also, fixed-term. We know that there are two types of researchers: the researcher of type A, who lasts up to five years, non-renewable, and the researcher of type B, who after three years, as a rule, sees his contract converted into a place of associate professor and therefore no longer available until retirement. The Ministry of University and Research in 2012 had established that for every ordinary post you are obliged to ban also a post for type B researcher, in order to guarantee at least a minimum of permanent recruitment. The Renzi Government has diminished this possibility, which was in fact a possibility of future for type A researchers: a chance to see their university path continue. We are asking you today how we will proceed from next year, when contracts for Type A researchers will expire, which are likely to serve the partial failure of the Italian tenure track.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u60	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Minister, the Constitution of the Italian Republic provides that the right of study must be guaranteed to all, but the stop to the revision of access to university courses with scheduled number, communicated by the Undersecretary for Education, University and Research, Pharaoh, is yet another promise betrayed by the Renzi Government, after the Minister of Education, University and Research. had announced a selection finally attentive to quality, inspired by the French model, abolishing the entrance tests. On this issue we have often faced each other and, as the Minister knows, the North League is totally opposed to the entry tests, especially to medicine, where there is only one place available for every seven questions and currently we enter more fortunately than for ability. The input tests, although well formulated, may be relatively useful to verify the level of preparation at the end of a course of studies. It is quite different when they claim to focus on how much a new course of study has been undertaken, especially in a particular area such as the medical one. It would be enough to look at what happens in other nations close to us, such as France, where the selection for the medical faculty takes place after the first year of university and a short internship in hospital. So, Minister, we ask if the government is working on a system that leaves a possibility for all students to enter the university, shaking them after a certain period of time - perhaps after a year - on the basis of an adequate number of exams to be passed, so that the best can choose the degree course of interest, until the exhaustion of the places in that course or in that university, or if - as we fear - the Renzi will prevail, once again unconstitutional. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Education, University and Research, Senator Giannini, may answer together.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, here too there are a number of issues, which I will try to sum up, starting from the two crucial points, which, in my opinion, are subject to the majority of interventions, namely the need to strengthen the meritocracy of the Italian university - as well as of other sectors, starting from that of the school - the need to promote excellence and that of guarantee - in accordance with the constitutional principles, as last mentioned by Senator Centinario - the right to study for all students - I add, citing the Constitution - capable and deserving. I will list in detail the measures that this Government has taken in terms of funding criteria for the university system and also changes in certain qualifying points, in the allocation of premium funds and structural funds and in the recruitment policies that have been examined and/or modified in relation to the recent past. I will then go on to discuss current and prospective choices, so I also hope that there will be a positive evolution towards some of the directions that have been evoked both for schools of specialization in medicine and for access to the medical faculty. Starting from the first point, for the breakdown of the 2014 ordinary funding fund we introduced some very important innovations, which I announce. This year's financing system was characterised by the introduction of standard cost, as the first sector of Italian public administration and the first university sector within the European Union. This means having a benchmark based on the standard cost of allocating around 15% of the total funding fund. The principle of standard cost, in addition to being a novelty, is also a premium principle, because it essentially intends to identify and therefore enhance those universities that provide adequate services compared to the students' audience, which are able to contain the number of students out of course - because the parameter that is used is the number of students in the course of graduation - and at the same time that have sustainability requirements from the point of view of teaching and administrative technical staff. So I would say, with a summary, that these universities are functioning, that they are adapted to the scientific and educational objectives and that they have structural services adapted to the needs of the students. As far as the current year's allocation - 2015 - is concerned, while working on these new principles, which will be exactly the same but enhanced quantitatively, I would like to remind you that for state universities the availability of total resources has increased by about one percentage point compared to the previous year. It is the first year, therefore, in which there is an upward curve compared to what happened until last year. Basically, we have 7.1 billion for the whole system, with a share allocated to the standard cost, in terms and in the amount I said, and with a significantly high premium share: it was 13.5 percent in 2013, in 2014 it went up to 18 percent and my intention is to further enhance this parameter. The prize fee is based - another very important figure that answers briefly, but also with a certain analysis of detail, especially the question posed by Senator Liuzzi - on the results of the teaching activity for 10%, with specific reference to the international component, therefore the rate of attractiveness and internationalization of universities, and of course it is one of the measures we have introduced. I would like to remind you, again from this point of view, that we have allocated EUR 65 million for the youth fund, of which EUR 51 million for the international mobility of students and PhD students, so this is a measure that goes in the direction of that enhancement and enhancement of excellence which is one of the elements that, even looking at international rankings and rankings, where they have a possible application to our system, should lead us progressively to improve. The product of the historical share of the financing of the quota for standard cost and the premia quota, as well as the equalization fund, that is - in money - the one that protects the universities that, following the combination of these three parameters would have had in the first application of the standard cost a significant reduction of their total financing, involves a range of fluctuation that finally, let me say, enhances the merit and limits the sometimes dramatic losses of some universities, especially in some areas of the country. This is a fundamental balance for the achievement of those two objectives of which I said: the promotion of excellence, but also a right to study guaranteed to the greatest number of students capable and deserving and in all areas of the country. Starting from 2015, we would also like to introduce further significant innovations from this point of view. This means, for example, encouraging the return of Italian researchers who have moved abroad, thus programmes for the recovery of so-called talents on the move, and attracting researchers of excellence who are resident abroad and who can contribute to the innovation and quality of Italian scientific research. From this point of view, for example, the simplified direct call tool and the financing of the activities of visiting professors in the universities that we are doing gradually will certainly be an important element. Let me give you an example: EUR 3.5 million is allocated to the measure of the call and EUR 5 million to the so-called Levi Montalcini calls, which are those calls, as you will recall, which also provide for the possibility of recruitment based on merit and on places of researchers in tenure track, about which Senator Montevecchi, then type B, spoke. Apart from these last measures, which are short-term, but which will be implemented, it is very important that they can be accompanied by the redefinition of the types of research programmes for which universities can directly recruit teachers who have won international and European competitive grants and funds. In order to support this phenomenon, as well as to respond to the dramatic problem that Senator Petraglia mentioned, of the necessary replacement of the teaching with some measure that begins to buffer a hemorrhage of professors and researchers, steps have already begun to move. It is clear, however, that this is a path that must be put in place or with an extraordinary plan of recruitment of young researchers or - better still - with a smooth flow of recruitment as much as possible. What has been done to date? Firstly, the so-called virtuous universities, i.e. those with budgetary parameters provided for in Legislative Decree No. 49 of 2012, can reuse in full the organic points that have been released for the termination of contracts of type A researchers, those without tenure track to understand us. For the three-year period 2015-2017 (i.e. from this year until 2017), universities can fix the number of recruitments of ordinary professors, thus favouring the replacement, because - forgive me - young people are not only necessarily researchers, but there can also be brilliant young people who go to the chair at a relatively low age. In this case the replacement is encouraged and a financial incentive is given to the recruitment of researchers of about five million for each of the three years. That means 80 places down. It also provided for the release of organic points. As you know, having approved the thousand-pronged decree, the law of stability has continued all the organic points available from turnover from 2009 to today. This is another important measure, in addition to the extraordinary plan of the associates. These measures are combined with the draft decree on the distribution of organic points for the three-year period 2015-2017, which, among the many innovations, provides that all universities with budget parameters in order, that is the so-called virtuous universities, can have at least 30 percent of their turnover (I remind you that the average national ceiling is 50 percent): this means doing a whole series of actions that go in the direction of the replacement, increase and rejuvenation of the teaching and research population of our universities. At this point, given that time is running out, I would go on to the medical questions. I do not remember who mentioned my statement on scheduled access, but I would like to clarify once and for all that not only do I not deny it, but I confirm it: I have never confused the scheduled number with the access by selection. They are two completely different things, so I repeat that the number programmed in a faculty like that of medicine is a healthy measure and that, compared to the generations of the seventies and eighties, has led to a qualitative didactic. It is not the only factor that makes our health system excellent, but it is one of them. That this is the best tool for selection (i.e. the one that is going on to date), as I have already said on other occasions, I am not convinced at all: it is an imperfect system that we must begin to improve. My hope is that in some time, perhaps even in one year, we can get the conditions for the so-called French model. What are we going to do this year and what has prevented us from having a reasonable and not a worsening measure of the functioning of the faculty? Gentlemen, the fact that in this country aspirants enrolled in medicine are still an abnormal critical mass. I tell you only two numbers that you can compare: every year in our country there are about 230,000-240,000 freshmen; of these, about 70,000 (and two years ago 90,000) were aspiring doctors. This is the result of an orientation that is neither effective nor incisive, as it must begin to be. We will do so from this school year, with self-assessment and self-collection tests, which of course do not have any selective function, but give the student the measure of understanding of his own aptitude and skills acquired. We will also do so with the perfection of the selective tests, concentrated - I confirm - in the first decade of September (we have also established it, it seems to me that it is 8 or 9, however we will officially communicate it to horas). Basically, the direction of the change is to decrease, as the law allows us to do (we proceed according to the law on this point, as you well know), the quantity of so-called questions of general culture or of an external nature to the evaluation of the competences acquired by students in the disciplines that become preparatory to the degree course. For specializations I do not repeat statements already made in other contexts, but I make a brief intervention because it is my duty. What we have done really important is the interministerial decree that rationalises and rearranges schools of medical specialization, with a decrease in the number of years, which allows our young doctors to enter a European perspective in a competitive and adequate way. I also refer to what is going on. We've guaranteed respect for the times. The second national access competition will be issued by 30 April and the tests will take place by 31 July, with a slight change, substantial however for the good functioning: a smaller number of options for residents. This year's complexity was not given by the mess (as Senator Montevecchi called it) of the two questions exchanged, which absolutely were neutralized without any harm to any of the candidates who were then awarded the scholarship. The complexity was caused by the exterminated number of possible locations that created a very long process and also interference with the educational activity of schools. This will not happen. Since Parliament is strongly committed to these issues, we must reflect together, Government and Parliament, on the true vulnus of medical training, that is, on the funnel mechanism that causes us to graduate about 10,000 young people a year in medicine and then offer (this is last year's figure) 3,300 scholarships at the start, which a huge effort by my Ministry and this Government has finally brought to 5,500, but which are always just over half. We must then make, and we are doing so, an effort to increase the number of these scholarships, because those who graduate in medicine, unless they choose the career of general medical care, must necessarily specialize and must have the opportunity to do so. A country that wants to maintain the quality of this fundamental sector must have this institutional duty.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u62	Before giving the floor to the replicant senators, I would like to take the opportunity to report to my colleagues and greet in our forums the Secretary-General of the Bundesrat, Herr Gerd Schmitt, who is attending our work and who is particularly grateful, because he wanted to visit us before the end of his office. [[Applause]] I very much hope that he will also inspire our constitutional reforms, since he is an expression of the Bundesrat.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u63	They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u66	PHASE (PD). Mrs. Minister, I am absolutely satisfied with your reference to the principle of premiumity and also for your sharing of non-perfection, therefore of the search for additional methods of selection or for the revision of the current tests. I wanted to point out, however, that too tight meshes do not always help, even taking into account a fact. Yes to the best, I absolutely agree with you: the best must be selected on the basis of merit, but, at the same time, it must be taken into account that the university will have to equip itself and look to the future because the average age of general medicine doctors, according to the Gauss curve, is currently 57 years. You have to think that within the next ten years these doctors will be almost all retired and, therefore, we will have a great need for new doctors. If we want to implement the Balduzzi law with the reorganization of territorial health, by implementing complex units of medicine, with garrison h24 and strengthening of territorial care in a rapidly ageing society, and if we think that in 2030 27 percent of the population will be over 65, we must now plan access to the medical faculty. Of course, we will have to train the new medical staff: be the best. Let's hope we're all long-lived.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u69	LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, one more percentage point of the total resources allocated by the state budget to universities is good news, but it is not enough, it is not enough. We therefore call on the Government to continue along this path. It is clear, however, that universities will also have to play their part and value even more the focal point of the Gelmini reform, i.e. the elimination of self-referentiality. And so: the standard costs and responsibility for the merit of students, researchers and teachers, and the State funding increasingly linked to the evaluation of results. As a Member of the South, however, allow me to invoke corrective measures aimed at putting the insistent universities on historically disadvantaged areas in a position to recover that socio-economic gap, which otherwise will never be able to recover in terms of competitiveness, to the detriment of the development of the territories and the rebalancing of the differences between North and South.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u72	Montevecchi (M5S). I'm gonna take very little time. Unfortunately, I am not satisfied with the answers given, because in practice I did not understand how the Ministry will want to move with respect to the problem arising with the examination for access to the specialization schools, a problem that did not only concern an exchange of evidence, because there was much more: wrong scores and then corrected quickly and fury, ununiform controls, laptops hidden in jackets. A panorama on which I would like the Minister to think when it comes to reforming admission tests and methods of control, transparency and guarantee. As for the admission test to the medical faculty, we all look forward to more information. In this regard too, I hope that the Minister will begin a reflection that will lead him to review his position, to think of adopting a model inspired by the French one and to evaluate all the various criticalities that seriously endanger teaching within our medical faculties.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u75	Conte (AP (NCD-UDC)). I take note, Madam Minister, of the ongoing process and of the will expressed to overcome the concept of testing, as regards access to both medical faculties and specializations. Reference has been made to the disproportion between the number of people who wish to have access to medical school and the actual number of places, so I think a quota is necessary. From my point of view, there is also a question of a different nature, which is not the subject of today's question time, and which concerns the orientation that high schools should take in relation to university faculties, so that students can be directed towards the possibilities offered by the labour market, as there is often a difficulty in integrating graduate students.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u78	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Minister, we know your special attention to the world of university and research, so we invite you to bear in mind that today, out of one hundred researchers, only six can remain linked to our university system and be hired. We therefore think that a greater effort should be made than the five million you referred to and we believe that eighty places are really nothing compared to the wealth we have in Italy. We believe that in this area the government must take a lot of steps forward and find the necessary resources, because public research must be one of the priorities on which to focus.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u81	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Minister, we reiterate our idea that it cannot be an entry test to decide whether a student is capable or worthy, especially if the questions that are asked to him have nothing to do with the faculty that he will undertake. So let us maintain our opinion on this. Compared to what you said, we are partially satisfied. I am referring to the plan to pursue the French model, which we consider suitable to detect the actual skills of the student and his will to pursue the chosen faculty. We believe that it is the best and, therefore, we will eventually support it in its proposal, hoping that then the Pharaoh will not appear again in turn to block everything.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u82	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank the Minister for Education, University and Research, Senator Giannini, for his helpfulness and all the interrogations.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u83	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-410.ana.u84	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 17 March, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.20 p.m.
