ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 26 November.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u10	CUOMO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are men who remain firmly anchored in our best memories: this happens when the voice, gestures and jokes can arouse and evoke emotions and pass on from generation to generation. An artist capable of creating this indissoluble bond with many Italians was definitely Luca De Filippo, who disappeared a few days ago, which we remember today in this Assembly. For Naples and for the Neapolitans, but also for all Italian lovers of theatrical art and those rituals of extraordinary emotional intensity that only a stage can give, Luca was the son of Eduardo. Often it was enough to evoke only its name, being necessary to add the surname De Filippo only for the non Neapolitans or the less close to that wonderful place called stage, which is the very essence of the theater. Not having a surname, in that case, is a distinctive sign of moral nobility. When we remember Luca De Filippo we talk about nobility made of stage tables, chests full of costumes and old scripts never aged and that each of us has well sculpted in its own intimate and today moved memory. The family tree of Luca De Filippo was made of signs carved on the face, on the front that progressively became uniform to the father and traced the thought never turned away from his Naples. In a recent radio interview he had intended to explain how in recent years he had chosen to bring his father's works to the stage, saying: At this critical moment in our society I feel the need to vigorously recover my roots and traditions." A solid, natural bond, an emotional rooting extraordinarily strong with his Naples. A sentimental connection that had never been lost because it lived in its roots, in its language, in its donating art whenever it walked a stage. His Naples was above all for the boys, those who define themselves at risk. Those children who must be distanced in time from a culture of violence that would like to condemn them and that however finds, precisely in the arts and theater in this case, the most determined form of ethical and social contrast. His anger, once again united to fatherly thought, was this: to give hope back to the young people of his city, to work to build them a future freed from the underworld and deviances. The law on juvenile deviance, in fact, urged by his father when he was a senator, remains a tangible sign of social commitment and illustrious civil passion. Like his father Eduardo, Luca has dedicated much of his last thoughts to the "scugnizzi" of Naples to which time has changed only the name. The last speeches, the last interviews, the last appeals to the institutions of Luca De Filippo were in the same paternal direction. In this I believe there can and must be the great civil heritage that we have the duty to collect. Put in place those actions, those resources, those energies in favor of disadvantaged youth groups, to prevent exclusion conditions and to promote inclusive processes as is the commitment of the De Filippo Foundation since 2008. A life for the theatre, in the theatre: Luca De Filippo was actor square, cube. But this time, at the stage fiction, the last act of the real man was staged. And we all wish that, in this last act, Luca De Filippo is, in reality, one of his characters who, deemed dead, reappears of enchantment on the stage of life. It will certainly remain his vivid testimony of art, social commitment and moral uprightness, cultural heritage of Italy as a whole. I express the condolences of the entire PD Group for the death of Luca De Filippo. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u11	Thank you, Senator Cuomo. The Presidency supports the condolences you have expressed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u12	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00441 by Senator Puppato and other Senators, 1-00477 by Senator Martelli and other Senators, 1-00485 by Senator De Petris and other Senators, 1-00489 by Senator Arrigoni and other Senators, 1-00490 by Senator D'Alì and other Senators, and 1-00491 by Senator Bonfrisco and other Senators, on policies to combat climate change.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the debate on the motions which have been tabled and which deal with climate change is very necessary and appropriate in the light of the COP21 which began in Paris just the day before yesterday, as well as in the light of the first declarations that the States have already made. We could not therefore refrain from expressing some reflections, apart from the goodness of the motion of Senator Puppato that I wanted to sign and for which we will vote in favour not only for the wide and detailed context that is represented but also for the commitments that are asked of the Italian Government, first of all that strong activation in all international contexts so that we give life to an overall agreement to which all the great countries that emit pollutants in atmosphere, especially those that had not adhered to the previous Kyoto Protocol, because all are bound to achieve substantial objectives of reduction of the quantities of emissions in a certain time. Of course, India's statements that it does not intend to make any reduction in emissions at all and that, in its view, it is still up to the developed countries to make greater efforts or hear the United States declare that a binding agreement is still far away are certainly not comforting data and lead us to reflect on the fact that it seems possible, to date, that the countries belonging to the European Union will still have to make further efforts, in addition to those already operated, in terms of limiting pollutant emissions. We are convinced that, if this were to happen, it would be neither useful nor decisive in addressing the challenge of combating climate change. Yesterday, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon speaking in Paris mentioned the particular vulnerability of African countries to the effects of climate change, but we must not forget that the same vulnerability also affects our country, as evidenced by the constant erosion of soil, floods and the risk of desertification. This challenge will only have an effective solution if all the countries, especially those that can no longer be defined as developing countries such as China, India or Brazil, and that today are the countries that grow the most and therefore are the biggest producers of pollution. If this objective were not met and the industrial countries of Europe made further efforts on their own, this would not only benefit the environment (because the most polluting industries would tend to relocate their activities, as has already happened, to countries less rigid and less respectful of commitments and the environment), but also to labour policies, since relocation brings with it - as we sadly know - the increase in unemployment, especially in our country. The most important thing is to affirm the concrete need to facilitate the transition to a more sustainable and safer energy system. To this end, our Government must be called to a more consistent behavior between what it says and what it practices. While it is true, as it is true, that the fight against climate change is taking place in the context of reducing emissions into the atmosphere, it is also true that this is going from a radical change in the way we deal with this issue. It is therefore necessary to expand the use of renewable energy, to work for an increasingly high-quality agriculture, to combat food waste and deforestation, to encourage the use of public transport and sustainable mobility, and to direct building activity towards recovery. These are all fundamental and important things and certainly the recently approved environmental link goes in this direction. The affirmation of the principles of a circular economy, aimed at the recovery of matter, recycling and reuse, constitutes this radical change that can impact positively on the environment, with less resources used and less emissions, on the recovery chain, on the manufacture, but also on citizens, with a reduction in the cost of managing urban waste. This is certainly a step forward, but more needs to be done by investing in research and in those incentives that can stimulate this kind of circular economy. Moreover, action to combat climate change - the World Bank tells us - is an estimated increase in GDP of up to €1,900 billion a year; and this is certainly a figure not to be underestimated. All this is also said by the Government and has repeated it on many occasions. And then we do not understand how on the one hand we embrace the policy of the circular economy and on the other we do not yet issue the decree on the "by-products" to allow, for example, the re-use of the citrus paste. On the one hand, it is said that it wants to reduce emissions into the atmosphere, but then we continue to look at the creation of new and perhaps useless thermo-towers, even when they are not necessary. On the one hand it is stated that the way to reduce pollutants in the atmosphere is to upgrade renewables and on the other it is still focused on the search for fossil fuels, with the "unblock Italy" and drilling in the Mediterranean. Let the Government therefore, dear Minister, be more consistent. First of all, we have a follow-up strategy on the environment and, above all, on the type of development we want to pursue, which is worth gaining credibility not only at international level but also at national level, that credibility which is essential for our vision of the world to be weighed down and for our respect for the environment to be respected. [[Applause from the AL-A Group and Senator Puppato. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u14	She is registered to speak Senator Valdinosis. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u15	Mr President, the Conference of the Parties to Paris, which opened the day before yesterday, is the greatest opportunity that we all have to demonstrate, with deeds and not just words, that the fight against climate change is our priority for action. The route that led to Paris was long and full of pitfalls, but we really have the opportunity to write a new and different page in the history of environmental protection. Think about it: the Kyoto Protocol was signed 18 years ago (in 1997) by 35 countries, representing only 12% of global carbon dioxide emissions. The Paris agreement, on the other hand, potentially addresses a huge audience of actors: 167 countries, responsible for 94 percent of emissions. It is not only quantity, but also quality: at the COP21 table, in fact, there are, among others, the United States, China and India, i.e. the countries that produce the greatest pollution. Our eyes are therefore turned to Paris: it is a Paris still struck at the heart by the tragic attacks of two weeks ago, but today we have a duty to look to the future. In fact, in front of us, there is the extraordinary possibility of reaching an agreement for the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions. If, on the other hand, we continue to emit greenhouse gases, there will be global warming - as has been mentioned here several times - between 2 and 4 degrees Celsius, with huge consequences, some still difficult to assess for the whole planet: drought, floods, hurricanes. I would like to recall the words spoken two days ago by Pope Francis back from his trip to Africa; he said: "We are at the limit of suicide". His words are strong, which warn against the risks of yet another underestimating of a problem to which Bergoglio dedicated great attention with the publication of the encyclical "Laudato si". This time we can't fail. Allow me to say that the European Union has presented itself with the papers in order at the Paris Conference. In fact, we are committed to a roadmap that from now on by 2050 would lead to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of at least 80%, very close, therefore, to that dream of "zero emissions" by 2100 which today appears to be an objective accepted also by many other actors outside Europe. Europe has then taken concrete steps for the years to come. I am thinking of the 20% reduction in emissions by 2020 and the 40% reduction in emissions by 2030. Of course, we can do even more, but Europe gave a clear direction when it identified, within the European Energy Package, which we discussed in the Senate, a series of actions aimed at addressing the negative effects of climate change. This means addressing issues such as land use and consumption, reducing erosion risks, improving air and water quality. In this context, I would like to draw attention - and I would like to conclude and leave to the documents the text of my speech, which was obviously longer than four minutes - to the importance of the commitment, in point 9) of the Environment Commission's motion, to the fact that the Government is committed to promoting, including financially, policies to support scientific research, technological development, innovation, with particular attention to initiatives and actions under the Horizon 2020 European programme, which are linked to climate change mitigation and the development of technologies and systems. With this we, as Italy and as Europe, have a very important role and function to play, which remind us of a great responsibility and a great commitment in the years to come. I shall conclude, Mr President, by leaving my speech to the record. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u16	The Presidency authorizes you to deliver the text of your speech. Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u17	Mr President, the UN Convention on Climate Change in Paris is presented as the last chance that humanity has to block climate change and save its existence as we have known it. If today a billion people do not have access to safe drinking water, without counter-measures this number will rise to 2.5 billion by 2025. With the average temperature increase of 2 degrees, Pisa and Venice would be submerged by the sea, the temperature increase in the warmer summer months would reach 5 degrees making many of our cities unviable. Last Sunday more than 2,300 demonstrations were held in 150 countries, in which citizens and associations called for a strong, fair and legally binding agreement in Paris to drastically limit CO2 emissions into the atmosphere. Also in Rome there was a beautiful, large and participated event. Abandoning the use and dependence on fossil fuels is indispensable in order to reduce the increase in temperature with the consequent devastating effects on the weakest populations in Italy and throughout the planet, but also in order to fight against terrorism and war: the Middle East was devastated by wars for oil and gas. Only complete decarbonization can allow us not to be accomplices. In our country, renewable energy production has grown rapidly to over 38 percent in 2014. Yet, as Legambiente denounced a week ago, the Government and the Authority for the energy stand against: from the decree spread incentives to the new taxes for the self-production from renewable sources, to the penalising rules for the dispatching charges, to the new decree of incentives to renewable non-electric, all these measures have contributed to the stop of the investments. Installations collapsed by 92 percent. We must return to it, dear Government. On Monday we saw Renzi's umpteenth shooting, which wandered 4 billion for climate change. Too bad no one noticed. The only 4 billion sure are those related to the damage that, as admitted by the same Government, we had in 2014 for the 400 extreme events related to climate change such as floods, landslides, water bombs, occurred in Italy: they are events that involved 200 municipalities causing 10,000 displaced people and 4 billion years. The dream of universal access to clean energy is becoming a reality and already in some countries, such as Sweden, Switzerland and Denmark, they are working to reach 100% renewable energy. While Obama has invested in electric vehicles encouraging them, Marchionne, who has not made a mystery of not believing in electric vehicles, ends up producing the FIAT 500 electric and to present, but only in the USA and not in Italy, a new line of cars with hybrid motorizations and electric plug-ins. The two-storey electric bus with 450 kilometres of autonomy is introduced in London. We therefore need a strategy, a strong message to the country, a mission capable of guiding the industries, the citizens, to reap the thrust that comes also from the younger ones. Only a year ago, 22 scientists appealed to the Premier to point out that the national energy strategy was wrong. And what did the government do? Instead of engaging resources on renewables with the aim of getting us out of dependence on oil and gas, it promotes the unblocking Italy that favors drilling, incinerators, new cement. This lack of conversion is a cost to employment and undermines our future. Taking up a slogan that was widely repeated on Sunday, at the demonstration in Rome, we have no planet B. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u18	Senator Petrocelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u19	Mr President, the motions we are considering in these two days are elements which, in my modest vision, make a very clear glimpse of an act of accusation to the Government of the President of the Council, Renzi. It is an indictment to the fossil government of Matteo Renzi that is not so visible, as I mean, in the motions, for example, of my Group, of the 5 Star Movement, but it is very evident especially in the motion signed by authoritative representatives of the majority. If the majority motion contains a commitment to the Government in 17 points, then I dare say, with a reasoning that is all political, that the act of accusation is very strong, because 17 points in an act of engagement unequivocally indicate that the Renzi Government has failed on these aspects since the beginning of its mandate. The enormous shortcomings of the energy policy but also social of the Renzi Government (because they are connected) I refer to the statements that the Prime Minister made when, during the process of discussion of the release Italy, he told the press that he was ashamed to have to deal with countries like Spain, France or England, if I remember correctly, and talk with them about European energy strategy if our country had not undertaken to increase the production of oil and gas, that is to increase the exploitation of the deposits already existing in our territory, which is totally in contrast, as many colleagues have already said, with the content of the motions, and especially with the majority motion. In that speech the President of the Council quoted among the lines names of territories of our country where he wanted oil extractions to be increased. It therefore cited territories such as the Val d'Agri and Tempa Rossa in Basilicata, such as Ombrina Mare off the coast of Abruzzo, such as Melendugno or the other municipalities of Salento where the TAP pipeline will land or territories still affected by the platform of the Vega B platform in Sicily. Well, I would say to the President-in-Office of the Council that rather consistently today, he should be ashamed even to approach leaders of advanced countries... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puppato, excuse me, let the Minister listen to the speech, please. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Please, Senator Petrocelli, continue your intervention. Thank you, President, and thank you, Senator Puppato, first signatory of the majority motion. I said that the President of the Council should be ashamed of dealing with leaders of countries - such as Sweden - who are light years ahead of our Government. Sweden, for example, stated in the Prime Minister's own statements, Stefan Löfven, that it will be one of the first nations to get rid of the old welfare model, using for this definition an expression that contains within it the concept of overcoming energy policy from fossil sources. In fact, the Prime Minister, in his original version, said: "Sweden will become one of the first fossil-free welfare States in the world." In other words, Sweden is committed to working hard to break the existing and lasting link between development and dependence on fossil fuels; which the Italian Government ignores, even if there are high-sounding proclamations such as those contained in the motions that we are examining today. However, I want to give value and strength to the act of courage of this majority, which today, at one of the rare times in which it frees itself or wants to give the image of freeing itself from the chains - and I will conclude, President - that normally bind it in a state of semi-slavery to the wills of the Government, together with the oppositions, can deliberate a series of commitments that declare the failure of the fossil energy policy of the Renzi Government. That is why I will also vote in favour of the majority motion. It's an indictment, and I want to support it politically. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Puppato]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u21	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, courageous Italians who are listening to us in this debate, I will not participate in the certain rhetoric of the impending disaster, but I would like to bring to your attention some facts which have not been discussed, or very little has been said. First of all, there is no scientific consensus on global warming from the catastrophic consequences, caused by human activities (which I shall briefly call a warming theory). The Intergovernmental Working Group on Climate Change, known as IPCC, attended some 2,500 people, quickly and collectively classified as scientists, to whom, however, other collaborators were added, for a total of 9,000, including occasional participants in study groups; but there is no evidence that the majority of these 9,000 people support the warming theory. The IPCC is a political and non-scientific body, so much so that - we read it on the official website - it makes the most important decisions in the plenary sessions of government representatives, so we do not vote on the number of Nobel Prize winners or on the prestige of universities, but on the basis of countries, so - to say the least - the most remote Third World countries weigh as much as Germany, the United States or Italy. Many scientists have emerged from the ICPP both because of disagreement with the thesis that are then represented as belonging to the entire ICPP, and even more because of the prevalence of politics over science or the prevalence of ideology over research and scientific evidence. It should be recalled that the most well-known document of the IPCC is the Synthesis for policy-makers and not the document of which this Synthesis is, in fact, the Summary. Many scientists have denounced this Synthesis for political decision-makers as unfaithful, on fundamental aspects, to what has been elaborated by the more properly scientific groups. The current president of the IPCC, the Korean Hoesung Lee, is an economist and not a physicist or a climatologist and such is also Thomas Sterner, the main extensor of the last report: he is, in fact, an economist, I would say a politician, rather than a scientist. Hoesung Lee's predecessor as president of the IPCC, the Indian Rajendra Pachauri, who was then forced to resign for a sexual harassment affair, was an experienced railway engineer: we are already approaching, however, because an engineer should know certain physical dynamics. Carlo Carraro, the only Italian who is part of the Bureau of the IPCC, was a professor of economics, even of environmental economy. [[Comments of Senator Puppato]] In fact, many components of the IPCC do not know and write anything about the causes and extent of climate change, but take it for granted and study its alleged consequences on the various sectors of human activity, from the economy to medicine to other sectors. But there is no detail on the qualification of the alleged IPCC scientists. Certainly there are those who are simply equipped with a three-year degree, such as the supposed expert, who wrote alone the thesis that climate warming caused and was causing an increase in malaria. This lady was a 25-year-old, with only a three-year degree, and her thesis had never been reviewed by people of an adequate level. This person only three years later made his first publication, but his thesis became one of the most well-known of the IPCC. Well, of these 9,000 or so experts from the IPCC, perhaps - but we don't know - the majority are quite in favour of the warming theory. They are 9,000 people all over the planet, a part of which is definitely opposed to the thesis carried out by the IPCC, on which all the policies we are talking about are based. Well, only in the United States is there a petition that has collected the signature of over 31,000 graduates in strictly scientific subjects, related to global warming issues, of which 9.029 have PhD - the PhD, as we would call it - in scientific matters. This petition - signed, I repeat, by 31,000 qualified people, including 9,000 research doctors in the United States alone - urges the Government of the United States of America to reject the global warming agreement written in Kyoto in 1997 and other similar proposals. It argues that the proposed limits on greenhouse gases would harm the environment, delay the advancement of science and technology and damage the health and well-being of humanity. Still according to the petition, there is no persuasive scientific evidence that the release of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases by human activities is causing or will cause in the foreseeable future catastrophic warming of the earth's atmosphere and the upheaval of the earth's climate and there is scientific evidence that the increase in atmospheric carbon dioxide produces many beneficial effects on the plant and animal environment of the earth. It may be that these 31,000 people are wrong, but, surely, a thesis that only in one country has 31,000 specialists who do not share it, is not a theory on which there is scientific consensus. On the contrary, there is scientific consensus that climate change has always occurred in every age, according to cycles of varying duration and substantially unpredictable, linked to a number of causes that are being studied, and on which there is still no scientific consensus. There is scientific consensus that since the last glaciation, finished about 11,000 years ago, which in geological terms means for a very short time, for thousands of years the temperature has been higher than today. Many believe that even in the fifteenth century, six hundred years ago, the temperature was higher than today: it is the time when Greenland took its name; it means green land. It is clear that, otherwise, Greenland could not be called so, because in the nineteenth century and still today it has been and is partly or completely - depending on the era - covered by ice. There is scientific consensus that in past ages the presence of carbon dioxide in the air has reached much higher levels than today. In the era in which most of the animal phyla appeared on earth, evidently an extremely life-friendly era, about 440 million years ago, the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere was around 5,000 parts per million, while today the dramatic alarm is because we are at 400. Today there is a great alarm also on the raising of the average level of the seas, which has been about 40 centimeters in the last century, but we know that in the last glaciation, about 12,000 years ago, the sea level was over 100 meters lower than today, so there has been a rise in the level of the seas, compared to then, of 100 meters. Today there is so much alarm and this world catastrophe for 40 centimeters. We also know - and there is also scientific consensus on this - that the amplitude of the oscillation of the sea level over the last million years, including the last glaciation of 11,000 years ago, is at least 120 meters, so if it has increased by 100 meters to date, the fact that there have been another 40 cm of elevation is not an epochal fact and is not a record of sea level. Many believe that even in the first millennium of ours the sea level was overall higher than today. The number of Atlantic hurricanes has not increased in the last hundred years, nor has their average speed increased. A scientific consensus is on the 0.8 degree increase in temperature over the last 150 years. Who tells us that the ideal temperature was that of 1850, when, just to give an example, dozens of people died in Glasgow, because because of the great cold people used very much the coal stoves that caused this frightening pollution? Well, the pollution and smog we are talking about these days, with the envoy from Beijing who wears the mask (which is perfectly useless compared to gas) to show that there is smog in Beijing, has nothing to do with the agreements that can be made in Paris, just as there is absolutely nothing to do with the 84,000 people who, according to scientific research, would die in Italy because of pollution. Pollution is not caused by CO2. CO2 is called the "gas of life" by many scientists; it is not pollution. So let's try to have a rational scientific approach: more than just saving energy, more than just fighting pollution, but the real pollution, the one that does damage, the one that kills people, the one that harms populations, especially the poorest ones. To fight against windmills, or better to say the carbon dioxide mulins, it is very expensive, it is made to pay the poor people, it is made to pay the developing countries, with the illusion that someone in the rich countries can become even richer. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Giovanardi]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Vaccari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u22	Mr President, Minister, Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the signatories, together with my colleague Mr Puppato, for the motion that has been brought to the attention of this House, certainly late, but before the COP21 ended up discussing an epochal issue such as climate change. In these hours, in fact, Paris is being discussed, as many people have remembered, about the future of the planet. Paris is an opportunity to turn into a concrete political priority a debate that many of us have every day in parliamentary experience, trying to make our own contribution to study, ideas and political proposal. I want to go straight to what, in my opinion, is the crux of the matter: without profoundly changing the current production system, it will not be possible to mitigate global warming. And it goes without saying that the production system is modified only by upstream interventions, first of all by a new energy policy which, as recalled in the commitments to the Government contained in the first-signed motion of Senator Puppato, favours the use of low-carbon technologies and energy sources and defines a real road map of decarbonisation covering all sectors. It is clear that today our enemy is coal and fossil fuels and in a few decades we will have to overcome them, compared to today's simple reduction, in order to respect the emission levels that will be decided in Paris. At this transitional stage, however, it is possible to implement some concrete actions, as other European countries or regions have already done. I am thinking, for example, of the creation of the oil free zones as a concrete and immediately accessible instrument, by the Government and our country, to start from the bottom up a process that will take time and that, unlike the Europe 2020 strategy, rightly imposed by the European Union with the instrument of the Covenant of Mayors, can be a choice that virtuously puts our country, after Paris, on the right path. If the environmental link becomes a law by 2015, as we hope, we could already begin to take this path towards real decarbonisation: the establishment of these areas in the territory, on the model of denuclearized areas of the eighties, will be able to promote on an experimental basis the progressive escape from an economy based on the carbon cycle and, like other good practices, can guarantee from below, to reach the European standards of environmental sustainability. The establishment of these areas - in which experiments are started, prototypes are carried out and the industrial implementation of new hypotheses for the use of common goods, with particular regard to those coming from mountain areas - is promoted by the municipalities concerned also through their unions or conventions between them, which adopt a specific act of direction with a role of the Regions in relation to the organization. This means that the contribution to the mitigation of climate change does not go through isolated actions or only from the decisive and important agreements that will be signed in Paris, but makes sense from a system perspective in which everyone plays their specific and coordinated role: local authorities, citizens and their organised forms, regions, the State, the European Union. And I would like to emphasise, ladies and gentlemen, how these are spatial planning choices aimed at promoting economic development in a sustainable way, as an alternative to a fossil fuel model, and on this I would ask the Government for clear signals and greater coherence between saying and doing. The other major issue on which I would like to focus my attention is a new environmental taxation as an imperative of future economic policies. Only in this way will we be able to fully participate in the European process that will be drawn up with the new directive on the circular economy, which will come out today, moving taxation from work to pollution of production processes and products after and during their use. Current financial and economic legislation does not incorporate the value of ecosystem services and biodiversity and does not take account of ecological and social risks. The related environment on this has made an innovative choice, giving an important delegation to the Government that will not be dropped. European reindustrialisation can only be based on innovative and resource efficient enterprises. Change must therefore start as a matter of urgency to avoid being stuck in resource-inefficient structures. Incentives and obligations would lead to better resource use planning and sustainable material choices throughout the life cycle. Tax systems should therefore benefit from the use of renewable environmental resources and penalise fossil fuels, major pollution and climate-related emissions. A fundamental chapter also concerns environmental taxation in the field of goods and products. In this context, the direction is to review value added tax with the aim of guiding the market towards sustainable modes of production and consumption, including, for example, a facilitated value added tax regime for manufactured goods made with a minimum percentage of recycled material, i.e. shifting taxation from work to pollution. I repeat, in conclusion, that the Paris Agreement will be fundamental to its content and the constraints to which it will submit all the countries, but it is necessary to continue every day a change from the bottom of the economy and society. The choices that have been proposed here, even in the commitments for the government, by several colleagues, must be translated as a matter of urgency into concrete measures that support the renewal we need, if we really want to contribute, here in our country, to the fight against climate change. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u23	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u24	He asked the Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea, Dr. Galletti.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u25	Mr President, I would reserve the right to make my statements after the speeches in the final explanation of vote and ask you for a 15-minute suspension, because I attach great importance to the motion that we are going to approve today and I would like it to be as shared as possible, on the contrary, I would like it to be united. I therefore ask for fifteen minutes to examine the motions and see if we can find a text that is shared by the whole House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u26	Mr Minister, I agree with the granting of 15 minutes, but you will be speaking at the reopening of the proceedings before the explanations of vote so that you can also give the opinion. I call on the motion-makers to meet with the Minister and the Undersecretary in an attempt to bring this quarter of an hour to a successful conclusion. I shall briefly suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 10.20 a.m. and resumed at 10.46 a.m.) The session is resumed. I'm afraid the suspension didn't bear much fruit. I call Mr Galletti, Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Land and the Sea.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you know that the 21st Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change officially opened on Monday, from which the acronym COP21 stands. 150 Heads of State and Government from all over the world took part in the ceremony, and significant indications have emerged in that ceremony that give hope for a positive outcome of the climate agreement. In fact, I believe that the representatives of the major greenhouse gas emitting countries have come up with important statements on the possibility of reaching the historic agreement that everyone expects at the end of COP21. I would like to mention two of the speeches, the ones that most impressed me and which make us hope today for a successful outcome of COP21. I read to you the statement by President Obama: "We are the first generation to suffer the impact of climate change and the last to be able to do something." "I came here," added President Obama, "as leader of the world's largest economy and second most polluting country." This is a very indicative recognition of the responsibility that the United States takes toward the whole world. Equally significant was the statement by the Chinese President, who underlined his country's efforts, announcing that ecological commitments will be at the top of the agenda of the next multiannual plans. I believe that these two statements show us the path of negotiation that COP21 is taking, which is certainly positive. Of course, the challenge now awaits us in the next ten days is to turn these words into concrete acts. There is a great difference between the global conferences that have been held so far and the one that is taking place in Paris, because there is a sensitivity that has grown in the world and I will quote two figures as proof of this. The Annex I to the Kyoto Protocol, containing the commitment to reduce emissions, was signed by countries which, in total, accounted for 12% of CO2 emissions. Italy was among those countries, very few, that began to understand the importance of combating climate change. In Paris, more than 160 countries - to be precise 163 - have already made available, through the presentation of voluntary CO2 reduction plans, representing 96 percent of CO2 emitters. This is the photograph of the difference between Kyoto 1997 and Paris 2015. This data essentially tells us two things: firstly, that environmental consciousness, on our planet, has grown out of proportion. Today, with regard to environmental issues, there is a responsibility on the part of everyone and the sense of having to do something and take measures to start fighting climate change. There is also an equally important aspect. In Kyoto, in 1997, those few pioneer countries that committed themselves to CO2 reduction were criticized, perhaps even for some reason, because they bound their economies and made them less competitive than the others and in fact those countries renounced a part of their competitiveness, even because of a great value such as environmental protection. Today this does not happen anymore; on the contrary, today it is the opposite: today the whole world is moving towards that direction. Paris from an economic point of view will no longer be a bond but a great opportunity, because all countries will go towards that economy. There's no turning back. We need to understand this. Beyond the somewhat stale debate between negationists and alarmists, however, Paris represents a dividing line between an old and a new economy. This, beyond what will be the result of Paris, is clear to all: the economy of the 21st century will be profoundly different from the economy of the 20th century because it will have as its main objective respect for the environment. It is clear to everyone that, from now on, environmental policies will be considered as policies related to any other factor of production present within a company and become a major element of public policies. Italy presents itself in Paris, at COP21, within the great agreement concluded in October 2014, under the Italian Presidency of the European Council of Matteo Renzi; a very virtuous agreement, which Italy strongly wanted and which is an example for all other countries. That agreement commits us, in a binding and legal way, to reduce CO2 emissions by at least 40% by 2030 compared to 1990 and still commits us to achieving ambitious targets in the use of renewable energy and energy efficiency. This is a very strong objective that the whole of Europe has given itself, I repeat, in a binding manner with the burden shaning, so that each country will have its own national objective and those who do not respect it will be subject to the system of European sanctions. We bring this to Paris, together with the experience of these years because, as I have mentioned, we are among the countries that subscribe to Kyoto and the homework we have done. In recent years, due to the Kyoto Protocol, part of the road has already been covered: we have reduced emissions by more than 20%. In order to achieve the 40% target, account will also be taken of the path taken so far. We have also developed industrial technologies and practices that at the time may have cost us and have been a constraint, but today they can become, in this new environmental economy, a great factor of development and export. There are a few points which, to date, remain suspended and which still need to be resolved, and this is the task of COP21 and this last part of the negotiations. First of all, the issue of differentiation, an open theme, on which COP21 must be very, very clear. We know that there is an issue, already present in all previous negotiations, of differentiation and responsibility between industrialized and developing countries. What we will ask, as Europe and as Italy, is a dynamic differentiation that takes into account, during the course of the development and the putting into practice of the protocol, the true situation of the countries, because, from here to 2100, there will be countries that are now being industrialized but that in a few years will be as industrialized as we are. It is therefore necessary that the protocol, as it is monitored and constantly updated, takes into account the new reality that is being created. This is an open theme, on which our position is clear: yes to differentiation, but it must be a dynamic differentiation. This is important, because you know that the developed countries are the donor countries, that is, those that commit themselves, with transfers of resources and technology, to developing countries. The other theme is how to achieve carbon neutrality at 2100. We are going to get there according to a precise trajectory, that is, delineating already from the beginning in a virtuous way what are the steps, from here to 2100, in order to reach that objective; other countries, on the other hand, are limited only and exclusively to the final statement. I believe that these points, which are the open points on which the debate will be very intense, are as important as the objective. We all know that the goal we set ourselves in Paris 2015 is to limit the overheating of the planet under two degrees. Attention: this is already a point of mediation, which was found in Copenhagen a few years ago, and is an important fact recognized by all countries. Equally important, however, will be the governance of the process that Paris will establish. Paris does not start and ends in Paris: Paris begins in Paris and will continue forever. The system with which we will carry out the results we establish in Paris is then as important as the results themselves. I invite you to think that there are 193 countries there that engage, in a different way, with different acts and with different responsibilities. There must then be a governance that involves a constant monitoring of the action that countries do within them, in order to verify it in a transparent way; there must be comparable sets of information between them, so that each country can compare with other countries what it is doing and can make it known. This is important. Not only that, but, since it is a process that will last until 2100, monitoring, which we propose is either three-year or five-year, must also be an opportunity to review the objective. I was saying before that the target of at least two degrees is an agreed target, but not yet sufficient. I think this strongly: the objective of at least two degrees still does not exempt us from the risk of climate change. It's still very little. There are countries - I am thinking of the small islands - which, however, do not save with the two degrees; we know that the desirable objective should be no more than one and a half degrees. We, as a country, will say that the objective that we have established, and that represents a mediation between all countries, is at least that of the two degrees, but we will ask however that within the agreement there is also the accent to a degree and a half, which can be the new objective that, over time and during the monitoring, despite the objectives already achieved and the new technologies available on the market, can become the real final objective. In fact, I say it has to be the ultimate goal. We go to Paris and are recognized in that context as one of the most virtuous countries, which has taught others and which has given the best example; I believe that this is a title of strong merit of our country. I ask you to be clear in the objectives of the motion that you will be expressing today, because it will be a valuable contribution to me, to the negotiators and to the Members who will be present in Paris, to conduct this negotiation in the best possible way. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u28	I communicate that a text 2 has been filed on the motion at the first signature of Senator Puppato, in distribution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u29	I greet the students and teachers of the Istituto Tecnico Agrario Statale .Giuseppe Garibaldi in Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u30	I call Mr Degani, Secretary of State for the Environment and the Protection of the Land and the Sea, to give an opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u31	Mr President, motion No 441 (text 2), tabled by Senator Puppato and other senators, is acceptable. With regard to motion No 477, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators, I am in favour of points 1, 4, 5 and 10, removing the premises, and against the remaining points. With regard to motion No 485, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, I should like to make the following points: 1, 15, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22, and against the remaining points. With regard to motion No 489, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other Senators, I am in favour of points 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 9, 11, 13, 14, 16, 17 and 19, removing the premises, and against the remaining points. With regard to motion No 490, tabled by Senator D'Ali and other senators, I am in favour of points 1, 3 and 4, removing the premises, and against the remaining points. With regard to motion No 491, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators, I support points 1, 5, 7, 8, 9 and 10, taking the premises aside, and against the remaining points.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u32	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u34	For what, Senator? ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to speak for a few minutes in response to the Minister's reply. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There's no replica of the replica. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). I didn't want to do a replica, but I wanted to think aloud for a few minutes. If that is not possible, I would also like to thank you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can't. We are in an explanation of vote. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). We would have wasted less time if he had let me talk for a minute rather than having this debate between you and me.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u37	I'm begging the senators to quote their speeches because we've lost thirty-five unplanned minutes. Mr Bruni (CoR). Mr President, I will try to shorten the timetable, partly because we must understand how this phase of voting is completed, also in the light of the views expressed by the Government on the various motions. As far as our motion is concerned, it is certainly important that the transition to the Euro-Mediterranean Climate Change Centre has been given weight and importance. We will find a good signal from the Government if this commitment is maintained. I see, in the various motions, various commitments connected with the Paris Summit, which sometimes take over from the object of the same COP21 in Paris. Trying to include topics and issues that are not always focused on that goal, I think, is a misleading operation. We, on the other hand, have tried in our motion to detail only a few points which may be much more appropriate, relevant and related to the outcome of the Paris Summit. Therefore, starting from this consideration and also from the positive opinion expressed on much of our considerations and commitments that we ask the Government with the motion of Senator Bonfrisco and others, we believe that we can support a good part of the commitments and action that the Government wants to carry out and implement at the next summit in Paris. However, let us stress and focus on an important issue, which has been discussed and pointed out several times by the press and commentators regarding the first days of the 2015 Paris Summit, namely the binding and mandatory effect of what can be done at this summit. We believe that Italy must commit itself to this path knowing that it is impervious and very complicated, because not all the participating countries will have an interest in following this mandatory path. I think, however, that if we want to make a different sense than the other summits that have been held so far, this is due to the binding and mandatory effect of this process. We must also abandon a hypocrisy that can often emerge in this type of discussion, that of saying that the Western countries have already done their damage to emissions and climate change linked above all to industrial productions and to the wild urbanizations of the last century, and that therefore the developing countries would have the right to do the same. I believe that this is a short-sighted position that Western countries, from an uncomfortable position which is ours, must also make it clear to developing countries. This is because a hundred years ago there was no technological progress and advanced research that is currently there: today even a developing country can look at a different scenario, being able to use the know-how and the effects of research, which a hundred years ago were not there and maybe Western countries were obliged to use coal and fossil sources as today does not have to happen. Of course, someone can say that it takes consistency of behaviour, so Western countries cannot be virtuous at home and then maybe use other strategies in other continents; on this a reflection must be made. But what I want to reiterate is that, rather than making a sum of commitments and arguments, sometimes not all of them on the subject of Paris 2015 and the issue of climate change, it is good to focus only on a few important issues. This we have tried to do with our motion and we consider a good signal that of the Government which, by the expression of the Undersecretary, has accepted much of our commitments. We therefore strongly support this position, while pointing out that it is important that we arrive at a rewording of point 9, as it had been rewritten in text 2 of Senator Puppato's motion. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Scilipoti Isgrò]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u38	Thank you for the summary, Senator Bruni, which I hope will also inspire colleagues who will speak after you.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u41	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I said yesterday on the occasion of the presentation of our motion, and I repeat this again today that it is a bit paradoxical to now discuss these motions on policies to combat climate change when the Paris Conference began and has already come to life. At the inauguration on Sunday, the landlord, Hollande, who must be shown to have courageously confirmed the event despite the terrorist massacres of Islamic origin on 13 November, welcomed 147 Heads of State and Government in an armored Paris. The opening day was characterized by a catwalk of leaders lasting as long as eight hours, during which each one intervened for three minutes saying his own, but expressing substantially the same concept a bit trite and ritrito, taking solemn commitments and trying to exhort those present with effective phrases such as "this" is the last call "M", "we cannot fail" or "we can change the future and now we are the last generation that can do something". On the occasion, before a world showcase, also on climate change Renzi did not fail to amaze promising a new and substantial allocation in the law of stability, after having announced only a week before urbi et orbi as much as 1 billion for safety and an equivalent amount for culture. For climate change, the Premier said that he had put an investment plan of four billion by 2020 into the Stability Bill. We do not know where this mountain of money will find - without forgetting the promises, which are still lacking, for the recovery of the South - except with the further increase in debt. Certainly in the Senate, at first reading, we have not seen these spending commitments, let alone at present we have seen them from our colleagues in the House. For now, despite the promises, we have only seen crumbs for the prevention of hydrogeological failure. However, since the Paris Conference, a great challenge was and is expected: to stop global warming to block the hypothetical catastrophic consequences. The objective is to contain by the end of the century the increase in global average temperature below two degrees Celsius compared to pre-industrial levels. This result can be pursued through a lasting global agreement (i.e. with long-term objectives), transparent (i.e. with verifiable and comparable commitments) and binding on emission reduction, with realistic targets to be met by all acceding countries. However, the rhetoric uttered with full hands in these hours, on the basis of hypercatastrophist logics - especially from the American president Obama, who, after seven years of inertia, would like to leave his testimony as leader and director of the agreement, but playing on two different tables, that of Paris and that of the American Congress with which he has to deal - will inevitably come up against several problems. Firstly, because, as was the case with the Kyoto protocols, the US Congress will never ratify the binding agreement; the US President confirmed it yesterday, saying that he is aiming for a binding agreement at least in part. Secondly, because India, acting as an interpreter of other emerging countries, said that the same will not give up, at least shortly, fossil sources, let alone are willing to question its economic and industrial model, and therefore curb their development in order to repair the damage done in two centuries by the more developed countries. To undermine, therefore, the expected positive conclusions of the Conference is emerging an arm of iron, which will try to defuse, or at the limit of loosening, in order to avoid an embarrassing epilogue, putting on the plate by the most industrialized countries a lot of economic resources to finance the energy transition of the emerging countries. It would, in fact, be devastating - and therefore to be avoided - the image of a summit that was mentioned not as far as pollution was concerned but as far as pollution was concerned, because of the logistical transport needs of the 195 participating delegations, certainly arrived in Paris on state flights. [[Applause from Senator Crosio]] So there is nothing left but to wait until 11 December to learn about the conclusions of the Conference. One thing, however, is certain: in our home, in Italy, while we have been concerned about the increase in the global average temperature of the planet due to CO2 emissions, we have underestimated and neglected another and even more compelling problem that affects the quality of our own air; and this has already caused serious consequences. After the drunkenness of the climate conference, the Italian Government will have to address immediately the alarming problem that, while Renzi was taking the runway in Paris, the European Environment Agency denounced with its report, where it is learned that Italy is the country of the European Union that marks the record of the number of premature deaths, compared to normal life expectancy, for air pollution. Only in 2012 there were 84,000 deaths of this type in the Bel Paese, out of a total of 491,000 at the European level. The killer chemical agents under charge for this sad record are three: thin microdusts (Pm2,5), nitrogen dioxide and ozone. Remember that the area most affected in Italy by the problem of microdusts is confirmed that of the Po Valley, with Brescia, Monza, Milan but also Turin. We are talking, by chance, about the most anthropized areas of the country, where it certainly affects the domestic heating, which is used for the cold winter temperatures, but also those where there is the greatest congested car traffic, also and especially because of the insufficient road infrastructure - for example, to travel the 35 kilometers of road that connect Lecco with Bergamo, we arrive to take even two hours - and where there is the greater presence of thermovaluers and cement makers, that this Government, after having considered them strategic at national level, would like to exploit up to the maximum capacity, to burn irresponsably managed waste in different areas of the center and south of the country, in particular of Campania. The European Agency's data on premature mortality is staggering. A serious government should immediately block all initiatives aimed at worsening the situation and therefore also those contained in the decree-law introducing urgent measures for interventions for the territory, which provides for the disposal, in Lombardy and Emilia-Romagna, of the mountains of ecoball accumulated in Campania and, in the meantime, initiate an immediate verification of the problem by the Higher Institute of Health. Moreover, it is no longer acceptable to postpone the air quality plan, which the League has been demanding for years. In conclusion, Mr President, with this hope and with the hope that in Paris our Government, before concluding any agreement, will fully assert its legitimate national interests, demanding the protection and enhancement of Italian industrial and technological experiences of excellence, called for a commitment and a substantial investment, and asking for an adequate possibility of using flexible mechanisms, as well as measures tailored to the needs of small enterprises and the cost-benefit ratio, given the failed attempt to converge on a united motion, we trust in a vote in favour of our motion. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u44	MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would ask you to attach the written text of my explanation of vote to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Let me also make a few statements on these important motions, expressing my regret that I have not reached an agreement on a unified motion, despite the efforts of my fellow Senator Puppato, the Undersecretary and the Minister. To present a united motion would certainly have had a different meaning and would have given a different mandate, not so much to the Minister, as representative of the Government or as Minister of the Italian Environment, but to Italy itself, which showed that it had reached a level of sensitivity and attention to environmental issues such as being included among the leading nations of COP21. This certainly regrets us in view of the fact that we need to present Italy as a leading country within COP21. The motion that the majority has also modified, through a rewording of the text, receiving in many parts also the suggestions of the colleagues of the minority, I think it is absolutely appropriate and comprehensive to give a precise mandate to our participation in COP21. So it's really a shame, because when I say it - let me say it - forms of radicalization and ideologization of concepts, unfortunately we can't achieve a common result. We in the People's Area believe that the motion tabled by the majority of the Government, which came out of a elaboration and a study done in the Environment Commission, together with the President, the Undersecretary always present in the proceedings, and to all members of the majority, is certainly the best. That is why we shall be voting in favour of this motion. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u47	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the debate we had between yesterday and today on the motions before us has made clear both the points of agreement and the differences of position on this issue. We absolutely must not hide ourselves from this, because we must really understand what the issues are - these are part of our political responsibility - on which we can also make a contribution to the Paris conference and those on which obviously, especially with regard to domestic and national policies, there are still considerable differences. Here I have heard of ideological positions. I am very sorry, however, that positions have once again emerged in this House - I am also addressing Senators D'Alì and Malan - which in jargon are called negationists: this yes seems to me to be a purely ideological issue on the one hand and, on the other hand, of support for the lobby that are of the old economy, the non-sustainable one, lobby that obviously are at work not only in Italy, but in the world. Let us hope (this is our intention) that they will not be too busy, ahinoi, even at the Paris Conference. Continue to argue that climate change, temperature rises and glaciations have occurred in the history of the planet, but this - I want to say very clearly - is evident. Even dinosaurs have survived 150 million years on our planet, but today we are in a very different situation, because it is the first time, Senator D'Alì, that is a species, in particular ours, to be responsible for these temperature increases and above all it is a species that risks being responsible for its own extinction and the extinction of life, as we have known it so far on the planet. The planet will survive, we all know this (this is not the problem), but it is the human species that is at risk and at the same time responsible, with its own model of economic development, for its suicide. That is why it is necessary to ensure that there is no control over non-sustainable economic lobbying, that there is a binding agreement in Paris. On this point for the truth - and I also say this to Mr Galletti - there is certainly an element of agreement between our motion and that of the majority and others. These are the issues that we raise in relation to the Paris Conference, and if we talk about binding commitments, it means that the voluntary commitments of individual countries are not enough, because with the voluntary commitments and the objectives that individual countries have given us, we will not be able to be under the security limit of two degrees. Look at the fact that national policies and strategies count on this and it also counts how we stand at the Paris Conference. Out of hypocrisies and out of rhetoric, then, is it true or not that in Italy the collapse of renewable energies this year is a fact? Is it true or not that the Mediterranean, as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) tells us, is one of the most vulnerable areas and that in Italy in particular there has been a very strong temperature increase of 2.4 degrees Celsius? Is it true or not that the choices made in recent years do not go at all - alas, Minister - towards an energy policy that strongly points towards decarbonisation and freeing from fossils and that, while renewable energy sources have been crossed, has focused on drilling and therefore on fossils and the old economy? That is the point of dissent, we must say it very clearly, and for this reason we insist on inviting all the other senators to reflect on this point: at the time when we are discussing Paris and approving the motions, a clear indication of a drastic and clear reversal of the trend on this front must come - I say this also to the Minister - also to make the Minister of the Environment stronger than other choices that are made. It is an idea of an economy that is absolutely necessary, because what is now clear to everyone is that this system is no longer sustainable either from an environmental point of view or from a social point of view. We have not long addressed here the issue of environmental refugees and conflicts, of everything that is already happening and that will continue to happen more and more if we do not stop. Choosing with determination the path of a low carbon economy, a very clear road of total emancipation from fossils, means a great opportunity for our country. To completely reverse the choices made to date by focusing on the new energy policy, investment in innovation, research and green economy means a great opportunity. That is why I do not understand the views that have been given on our motion, positive on some points, but negative on others, which we consider to be decisive for a breakthrough for the country in view of the Paris Conference and for the Conference itself. Of course, we will vote in favour of our motion, but we continue to insist and propose further reflections to the majority and the government. Of course, I have not heard from the Minister's words where these four billions are to be found, but if he will let us know, we will of course all be very happy that the Government has decided to invest resources in the fight against climate change. But we wait to see the numbers and the cards, because honestly we couldn't find them. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u50	MARTELLI (M5S). We could hold this situation in the Republic of the split personality, that is, the state in which things are done and then they say about others, obviously to make fun of people. Before we go into the matter, I would like to remind the negationists that on earth we are doing well with human life, that the National Organization for the Protection and Safety of American Workers has set in 5,000 parts per million the limit beyond which a worker cannot be continuously exposed to CO2. Recent studies, moreover, say that at 600 parts per million - that is, little more than what is now - cognitive problems begin to occur, that is, the human brain begins to fail; on this one one should be reflected. In the document of the COP20 of Lima, moreover, it was written that at COP21 of Paris governments should have found an agreement under which all nations put in place decided strategies of deep decarbonization and that these paths should have been presented by 2018 or beyond and should not have been legally binding, but merely indicative of strategies to arrive at decarbonization in the mid-century. These, then, were the premises of the COP21 in Paris: excellent, weren't they? Now let's go to the subject: why did I say that we are double personality here? Because we have a Government that comes to you with the unlock Italy in which drilling is open (Article 38), and then it speaks to you to proceed to a decarbonization and to try to do research in the field of alternative energies supporting them (yes, cutting incentives, for example); or, you get a ratification that says that the treaty with which Italy approved the construction of the trans-Adriatic pipeline must be done. This attitude is confirmed also in the first-signed motion Puppato, text 2, where it is said in the words (and these are the absolutely indigestible points): "A increase the ability to regasification"; you don't even run the current regasifiers and you want to make others? Not only that, we are talking about planning and implementing new infrastructure for the transport and supply of gas.In other words, not only is the TAP not enough for us, but we also want to plan someone else, always to bring more gas and promote the diversification of energy sources, which is exactly what the users of methane gas want (called it "natural gas" is a greenwashing operation). The split of personality, then, consists in this: if you really want to make a serious fight against climate change, you cannot think of always continuing on the same things. Here it takes a change of schedule, not a change of channel, like what you are doing, which, in fact, you are simply lowering the audio of an unpleasing transmission a little bit. The real change of thought is, first of all, that the fight against climate change must be fast, not slow, so those who do not adapt are out, because the economic cost of doing nothing or doing little is greater than doing something. That's why, when you say, "We do something, which is better than not doing anything," we say: "No, it's wrong." Every serious study on this matter, in fact, always says the same thing: a binding commitment to little is even worse; you might as well burn your carbon budget right away and close it there. No, it's not. Why? Because of course you don't have to go and bother the maneuvers. Another argument I have heard is that we cannot go and ask the nations that are now facing the pollutes' audience to stop extracting their oil, their shale gas or their shale oil, saying: "You can't do that anymore, because we did it, we realized it's crazy, so you don't have to do it either." Your logical consequence is therefore: "Let's extract our oil": nice reasoning! You talk to me about decarbonization, that is less CO2, then you tell me: Let's get our oil out, because we can't go and tell the others not to. Paradoxically it would make sense, that is, not to go home to others to say what they have to do; this commitment, however, must be symmetrical. Similarly, if I get the Chinese, Vietnamese, or wherever it is produced, done completely destroying workers' rights and every protection of the environment, somehow I have to protect myself; otherwise, I'm not going to tell others what to do, but I accept that others impose on me what to take. Worse still: I make myself impose things and I don't have the courage to go and tell them. At some point, either we're all standing there talking to each other and reaching a downward agreement, or someone more enlightened has to say: You know what? I propose something else. Don't you want to do it? I do the same and I put stakes to protect myself from what you outside do in contempt of the agreement. For example, if, at some point, steel is no longer sustainable or environmentally friendly, I do not allow the steelmaker to go abroad and bring their steel in, but I put an imposition on them so that their steel must still be produced in a compatible way, as if we had done it here. In this way, those who want to relocate no longer do so, because they no longer find fertile soil somewhere else. It is not difficult, but we have to think of something innovative, something that we do not have the courage to do here, which is why we cannot vote in favour of the other motions, with the exception of that of the SEL Group. Among other things, the SEL Group has included in its motion a point that has not been digested: they are to geoengineering, which includes all those methods that serve to mitigate global warming, further altering the Earth's mechanism. These are things like the dispersion of aerosols at high altitudes, substances such as sulphur dioxide, which increase the reflectivity of the Earth's atmosphere. Well done, but then what do we do with sulfur dioxide? He used to be a pollutant that created acid rain. Shall we do it again now? That's brilliant. The other idea is to spread on the oceans a lot of iron sulphate that increases the growth of algae, which absorb CO2 and release oxygen. In this way, however, we will have a carpet of algae, that is something that, when it happened in 1988, we called "alarm mucilages" and told everyone to be careful in bathing. After doing the nonsense in the bathtub behind the house called the Adriatic Sea, we want to do it oceanically. But yes, you have to think big. You're right! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Starting with the conclusion, the other thing that is expected is the deep storage of CO2. I've told you 28 times and I'm telling you again: in the CO2 molecule, carbon is 27 percent and 72 percent is oxygen. By storing CO2, we're going to depurate the planetary oxygen reserve and we're breathing oxygen and not carbon. And, in this way, prove that you do not know all the mechanisms of carbon extraction, such as the reactions of Bosch or Sabatier, although the Swiss Federal Office of the Environment has already covered them. I am referring to the carbon extraction mechanism for a chemical reaction to produce synthetic methane. It would be good for you, but since you don't even see these procedures, you don't carry them forward. Therefore, I really invite you to change the program, to change the TV program, because on this channel the broadcast is always the same. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u53	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in recent years the issue of combating climate change has become a major issue in the European and international political debate. On a global level, there is consensus that we need to innovate the current production models to make the growth of our economies more compatible with the needs of respect and protection of the planet. Even the Holy Father in his encyclical "Laudato si" and in his recent trip to Africa he declared himself very concerned about the situation relative to the world climate and the persistent pollution. We can, therefore, give a common feeling that a change of course is necessary in the economic development strategies of the great world economies. More confused remains the framework in which to define the objective to be achieved and very differentiated appear the strategies to be adopted in this regard. On the occasion of the summit taking place in Paris, as often happens during the major world events that attract the attention of the media and public opinion, people tend to offer an unrealistically mythical picture, to dispense recipes as miraculous as unrealizable and to lose sight of the few truly effective policies to implement. In these days, the major global leaders are launching themselves in appeals with exasperating rhetorical and emphatic tones. Obama and Hollande make themselves champions of a negotiating battle that will have to save our planet from floods, desertifications and other upcoming biblical upheavals. Even Premier Renzi, intervening at the same Conference, perhaps not just as a lover of the matter, said that Italy is a country that has the cards in order: we are ahead in many sectors; we are first in the world for the contribution of photovoltaics to the energy mix; with the new budget law we have put 4 billion euros from here to 2020 on climate changing. These statements, however, relate to data released on the same day by the European Environment Agency, which recalls how in 2012 our country recorded more than 80,000 premature deaths due to excessive air pollution. In fact, the high statements of principle, apart from the usefulness of newspaper headlines, are of little use. Analyzing the facts, it is found that the basic scientific basis of the perspectives of accelerated increase of the temperature of the globe are the result of simulated analysis, elaborated from models forecast absolutely uncertain on the basis of raw and heterogeneous data, with reports at high rate of emotionality. The UN panel of experts finds as many scientists as possible ready to demonstrate how it is necessary to reduce the scale and recontextualize the issue of climate change. In the last few days, two of the major organs of American information, the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal, underlined the overexposition of the Paris Conference as a decisive event of the planet's climate change, recalling that the climate of the earth has always been characterized by recurring changes, sometimes even extreme, regardless of the modern development of the human species. In short, sometimes it seems to proceed by word of mouth. It is obvious that a binding international agreement involving all countries, including developing countries, to reduce emissions - and I do not add CO2 - has a greater value than merely a political and symbolic result. But we learn that there are countries that are not available for this commitment. In order to achieve satisfactory results in the transformation of current production models, we need to set the shared criteria and make appropriate proposals, concentrating efforts also on identifying the necessary resources; resources both within the European Union, making it easy to access existing instruments and creating other new and innovative ones; both at international level, finding new solutions to support poor countries to adapt to the content of the Protocol; and, finally - and this is a decisive point, in your opinion - promoting and supporting (not necessarily within the usual institutional channels) companies or networks of companies, in the identification and exchange of new technologies to support the further spread of renewable energy sources, intelligent transport, widespread smart applications in technologies, related to networks and environmental systems: in a word, for the development of the application of climate engineering. In addition, with the objective of combating climate change, certain key aspects of the European Energy Union seem to be developing with absolute priority. I am referring to the challenge of energy efficiency and the development of interconnections of electricity and fuel transport infrastructures. The urgent need for action in the fields of construction and transport is of immediate understanding if we consider that it is these two sectors that produce much of the energy consumption (60 per cent of the total) and, consequently, emissions (54 per cent of the total). In this sense, the needs of energy efficiency represent at the same time as opportunities for technological innovation and economic growth. With regard to energy efficiency, the instruments to facilitate these practices may include state contributions to companies' investments in this field; promotion of appropriate economic and financial models and, finally, support for scientific and technological research for the dissemination of new high-efficiency materials and technologies. Furthermore, in my view, the digital agenda in the broadest sense can also provide support for the policy agenda to be developed. I remember, in fact, that the promotion and widespread diffusion of new technologies, the connectivity of production management systems and environmental monitoring systems together with energy saving are useful factors for the rationalization of the use of energy and the contrast of practices harmful to the environment. It should also be stressed that it is essential to activate all the necessary actions to allow the emissions trading system to become a characteristic and effective instrument, protected from market uncertainties and in compliance with the needs of the energy companies of the EU Member States, as well as the individual needs of each country in the context of its energy mix. To conclude, the efforts of the graduates to reach a binding agreement on reducing emissions, which also involves the most polluting economies, characterised by realism and with references to certain and shared data, must be supported. But there is a need for concrete commitments, which go beyond the establishment of improbable principles. According to the United Nations itself, if the agreement we are dealing with were put into practice by all in a binding manner, it would reduce the rise in temperatures by a very little in a few decades' time. On the other hand, a more pragmatic and less ideological approach is needed when it comes to policy proposals and implementation to be put into practice: the circulation of best practices, the dissemination of new technologies, the exchange of innovation experiences and the development of infrastructure interconnections. In short, our Group wants to support concrete action: multidisciplinary comparisons with regard to the effects in the use of different fuels, research of implementation of economic and financial models able to analyze the effectiveness of the initiatives in terms of cost-benefit and the impact of the same on our economy and on its competitiveness, support to the dissemination of corporate networks for the dissemination of Italian innovation technologies. For this reason, I am voting in favour - of course - of motion No 490, tabled by the Forza Italia Group, and of motion No 489, tabled by the Lega Nord Group. I would ask for the separate vote on motion No 490, starting with the commitment part (i.e. numbers 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8 and 10), and then moving to the remaining part.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u54	Senator Piccoli, the part on which you request the vote does not coincide with the part on which the Government expressed a favourable opinion. Therefore, if we are to proceed with the vote on the separate motion, I would first put to the vote the parties on whom the opinion is in favour and then the remaining party on which the opinion was rejected. Otherwise, we risk having to take too many votes today. Do you agree with my comment? SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u55	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students of the Technical, Economic and Technological Institute "Michelangelo Buonarroti" in Frascati, in the province of Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u58	Mr Caleo (PD). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is a fact that does not escape any of us, from which I would like to start by making some comments. For two days in Paris, the summit on climate change has been taking place, precisely in the European capital that 19 days ago suffered the last very heavy attack on the part of Islamic terrorists. Discussing today, in this assembly, motions on policies to combat climate change, as well as holding a World Conference on Climate Change in Paris, must give awareness that the issue has now become crucial for the security of the nations and for the fight against terrorism. Talking today about climate and how to combat global warming means fighting at the root one of the root causes of conflicts and subsequent migrations. In this regard, I would like to mention what is contained in the latest study published by the magazine of the National Academy of American Sciences, which highlights how drought, which has led to the collapse of Syrian agriculture, has caused the movement of hundreds of thousands of people to the city areas of the country between 2006 and 2009. This migration has created a pressure that is indicated as one of the causes, one of the factors triggering the civil war in Syria, whose dramatic effects we see every day in the images of the many women and children victims of the bombings and in the waves of migrants who, on foot or by means of luck, challenge fate, often finding death, to reach safer countries. And this ends with generating an increasingly less sustainable impact on our country and on all Western countries. It is well established that climate change is a factor that tends to accentuate existing crises. It is good to remember that there are other conflicts, especially in Africa, where climate change plays a decisive role. In Somalia or South Sudan for several years, in general silence, thousands of people die every year in violent conflicts for the control of pastures, increasingly rare and coveted. The UN Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, already defined the Darfur crisis as the first climate change conflict in 2007. Still with regard to Africa, another American study explains how raising an average temperature level leads to a 4-5 percent increase in the probability of civil wars in the same year. This is the ground, that of despair, on which terrorism makes proselytes. Moreover - in my opinion - the availability of fossil fuels limited over time and Europe's strong dependence on countries at high risk for energy supplies are another point that we should not underestimate. This is such an important issue that we must soon review our national energy strategy, based on oil and fossil fuels, as written in the first-signed motion by Senator Puppato. It is also these days the news that Italy is the first of the EU countries to die of air pollution. It's a very sad record, Minister. Colleagues, you understand that peace is at stake here, but above all the great responsibility of guaranteeing, to us and to our future generations, survival on this planet. And - alas - I regret to see, as other Members have also done, the fact that there are still, even in this House, the negationists, despite the fact that scientific data are now irrefutable. Preventing a disastrous outcome of climate change is still possible by halving global greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 compared to 2010. The threshold of two degrees - in my opinion - is still possible. We need binding agreements. And it is still possible only if we can make it clear that a united and authoritative European position, which is also the result of our Government's commitment during the EU Presidency, is crucial to achieving this result. The difficult geopolitical challenges ahead of us can only be overcome with more Europe. Europe is not just a money market, it cannot be just constraints and pacts to be respected. We need environmental and defence policies at Community level. The capacities, technologies and tools to achieve this objective are available at sustainable costs and with the possibility of triggering new opportunities for development. Our companies, an example of excellence and talent also in the environmental field, have already declared themselves ready to live as protagonists the challenge of the circular economy. But most of all, we have to trust them. We have not yet forgotten the Volkswagen emissions scandal. Each State will have to implement measures that give certain guarantees to its citizens and protect virtuous enterprises. We need to create the confidence to be more ambitious, which translates into more funds for research, development and innovation. But trust also depends on how the richest countries, including Italy, will be able to set an example through virtuous policies and concrete results not only at national and international level, but also worldwide. Ségolène Royal, the French Minister for the Environment, in an article published in a daily newspaper three days before the events in Paris, said that the responsibility for many speeches and for a few actions incumbent on us today must lead to operational decisions. Yesterday and the day before yesterday, at COP21 in Paris it was said that we are the last generation that can do something to stop the overheating of the planet. The political community, ladies and gentlemen, must feel even more responsible for this. It is the same that must have my party, the Democratic Party, that must be able to embody in the best possible way, especially with the failure of political representation and environmental party, that physiological instinct of nature conservation that moves millions of people. For these reasons the PD will support with conviction the commitment of the Government in Paris, partly illustrated by the motion of Senator Puppato that I would like to thank for the important and competent work it has carried out, aware that, at the present time, these policies also represent a strong opportunity from the economic and social point of view for Italy, Europe and the whole world. I think that the new, the creative, the knowledge and - allow me - hope also pass from here and we must be there. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u60	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u61	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, Antonino Zichichi explained at a seminar in Erice a short time ago that, until we can control the cycle of sunspots and put the catalytic muffles in the volcanoes, talking about the fight against climate change, from a scientific point of view, is something that is neither in the sky nor on earth. We, on the other hand, have heard a lot about the fight against climate change this morning, which is a fight against windmills, because climate change, from what world it is, does not depend on man. We have also heard of the fight against pollution, which is serious, not to be confused with the first. But we must see how pollution can be combated. We spent 900 euros per tonne of carbon dioxide in Italy with photovoltaics when we could eliminate the same amount by buying the rights at 7 euros per tonne. Probably the choice to spend 900 euros per ton, when we could eliminate it with 7 euros, did not do well to the Italian economy, except for those who earned speculating on photovoltaics. The problem - and I conclude, Mr President - is then that the fight against pollution must not be done with demagogy. Why do I disagree and not vote for the majority motion? When it is said that we will have to respect the indications of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPPC), which has been shown to be in great scientific confusion, with enormous disagreements about what it produces, with catastrophic projections, like the two degrees (it is a slogan that no one has demonstrated), we put ourselves in the hands of a world government out of all democratic control, which would be what determines the future of the fight against pollution, which must instead be a meditated, shared and democratic thing. For my dissent on this particular point of the motion, I will abstain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u64	Mr Degani, State Secretary for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea. Mr President, we welcome what Senator Bruni has proposed and, therefore, I would ask you to add, at the end of paragraph 9 of motion No 441 (text 2), to the first signature of Senator Puppato, the following words: The Euro-Mediterranean Climate Change Centre (CMCC) is one of the most important initiatives. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puppato, do you agree with the rewording proposed by the government? PUPPATE (PD). Yeah, absolutely.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u67	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to know whether motion No 441 (text 2) as tabled will be put to the vote or... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It will be voted on in the text supplemented by Undersecretary Degani. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Will the text also cover the reformulations of the Undersecretary?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u68	No. A proposal has been made by Senator Bruni, on which the presenter and the government have expressed a favourable opinion. The following words are added at the end of point 9: The Euro-Mediterranean Climate Change Centre (CMCC) is one of the most important initiatives. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). I understand that, Mr President, but the text that has been distributed... This integration has been introduced in text 2. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). I would like to know, however, whether the original points of the motion are the original ones or are reworded. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They are the same in text 2, already distributed, with the addition of which I have read, that will not change the rest of the text. Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. After the vote on motion No 441 (text 3), at the first signature of Senator Puppato, I will ask the House whether there is any opposition to the vote on separate parts of the other motions, in order to put to the vote separately, as is customary, the parties on which a favourable opinion has been expressed compared to those on which an opinion is contrary. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 441 (text 3). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 441 (text 3), tabled by Senator Puppato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Since there is no opposition to the split vote, we will first vote on the motions on which the Government gave a favourable opinion, then the remaining points will be voted, on which an opinion has been expressed against. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of points 1), 4), 5 and 10 of the motion No 477, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises and the remaining points of the motion No 477, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of points 1), 15, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21) and 22) of motion No 485, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the premises and the remaining points in the motion for a resolution No 485.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u71	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, as regards the part of the first-signed motion by Senator De Petris, I would like to propose a further split vote with reference to point 12).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u72	By established practice, we vote on the part on which the Government has spoken in favour and then on the part on which it has spoken against. Frankly, the split vote on the separate parts seems to me to be too fragmented.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u73	Instead, it is important, because point 12) is directly compared to others. I would therefore ask the House to comment on the possibility of making this further breakdown.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u74	I put to the vote the motion for a vote by separate parts, tabled by Senator Martelli, item 12) of motion No 485, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. It's not approved. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises and the remaining points of the motion No 485, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of points 1), 2, 3, 5, 8, 9, 11, 13, 14, 16, 17) and 19) of motion No 489, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises and the remaining points of the motion No 489, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on points 1, 3) and 4) of the motion for a resolution No 490.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u77	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Senator Piccoli had asked for a split vote in a different way: not to vote three but two, first voting on the points on which the Government gave a favourable opinion with the addition of points 6, 7 and 8). In fact, we do not understand the opposition to the interconnection of European electrical installations, to support companies in the identification and exchange of new technologies... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You understand that at this point even the first vote would no longer have a favourable opinion, but against it. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I ask the government if it intends to change its opinion. Mr Degani, State Secretary for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea. No. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malan, do you insist on this division? MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). In this case, Mr President, let us get to your determination.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u78	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of points 1), 3) and 4) of the motion No 490, tabled by Senator D'Alì and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises and the remaining points of the motion No 490, tabled by Senator D'Alì and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on points 1, 5, 7, 8, 9 and 10) of motion No 491.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u81	Mr Bruni (CoR). Mr President, we withdraw motion No 491.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u84	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to bring to your attention and to the attention of the Group leaders a situation which was largely predictable after last week's vote on the order of business that will follow. A report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs was also included in the discussion of the law on the extension of missions. Mr President, the offices of the Senate are complaining to our Group that the same person cannot speak on the two subjects, since only a senator has spoken on the subject. I am not quibbling now, but if you have made this type of choice at least questionable, it cannot now be said that a group like ours, which has a senator in the 4th Commission, cannot make the same speech in relation to both the legislation under discussion and the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Mr President, this creates a vulnus. We do not want to distinguish the arguments, but at the same time we prevent the Group from being able to argue using its own internal competences. I believe that there will be a reflection on this, because either it is admitted that the Senator already identified can intervene both in general discussion and on the information of the Minister, or the time is extended and a single intervention that covers both subjects is given in general discussion. Otherwise - I repeat - there will be a great confusion, preventing moreover to distinguish the two important moments: the information with the law provision on the extension of the missions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u85	Senator Candiani, what you have just said is the subject of a vote by the House on the timetable that has been established. This has determined the synthesis of the two moments: first there will be the intervention with the information and, to follow, the general discussion will be held that will concern the decree-law and the information. Since the times have been extended, the same person, while not intervening twice, but doing so at the same stage, may speak in relation first to the information and then to the decree-law, without prejudice to the possibility of intervening during the illustration of the amendments, in explanation of vote or whatever.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u86	The next item is the questioning 2-00326, by abbreviated procedure, pursuant to Rule 156- bis of the Rules of Procedure, and the related questioning 2-00325, on the judicial case concerning a current senator. I call Senator Palma to illustrate Question No 326.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u87	Mr President, I am actually wondering what happens to Ignazio Marino's receipts, i.e. essentially whether they will see the unfortunate fate of Senator Minzolini or the much more favourable fate that has been reserved for an authoritative character of our political current. Mr Undersecretary, I will not make any reference - rest assured - to the current extracts of judges, whether they are democratic judiciary or anything else. And I will not do that because I noticed how those, who were so excited when these references were made, had no hesitation in attacking an administrative judge who had been interested in the issue of marriage transcription just because of the Catholic matrix. In the same way, Mr Undersecretary, I will not repeat the trial here: it does not concern what the judge, de quadra rotundis and de albo nigrum was like: we all know that, and I hope that in his reply he will not tease us with the obvious. It is a process, however - let it be clear - which has its own political matrix. In fact, there is no doubt that what was a simple labour dispute, in which the parties involved had conducted it, assumes its criminal appreciation because of the denunciation of a politician, namely Mr Di Pietro, who - as we all remember - was, even for a short time, Minister of the Prodi Government. I have one thing to say: in all this we cannot fail to appreciate the behavior of Senator Minzolini. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC) and CoR Groups]] When the problem of the irregular accounting of receipts was raised, Minzolini immediately returned to RAI the sum of 65,000 euros. When he was condemned to second degree, he uttered no verb, just as no controversy witnessed the next iter, until the act of the cassation. We have never, in other words, heard Senator Minzolini make a political polemic against the judiciary, and I would not want his silence to be misinterpreted. 12:11 a.m. (Follow PALMA). It is, however, to be emphasized the nature of the political origin of this process, given the political character's charactership, which - let us remember - during the two years of the Laticlavio was one of the deepest contradicters of the so-called Nazarene Pact and was engaged in bitter controversy against the then President of the Republic of Naples (I open and close a parenthesis), Minister of the Prodi Government, exactly of that Dicastery - who knows why - of which was Undersecretary one of the judges of the Court of Appeal of Rome. As I said, a great deal of attention was needed: the political exposition of Senator Minzolini had been too strong; the political matrix of the trial was clear, so there was a need for that college to be deprived of any capacity to suffer aggression. Nevertheless, in the appeal process the Court of Appeal saw in the college the judge Sinisi, who all of us remember undersecretary of the Government Prodi, undersecretary of the Government of Alema, MP of the Margaret, then Democratic Party (in its various denominations). He is an authoritative Member of Parliament, so much so that, when his political career ceases, he is immediately instructed to be a legal adviser at the Italian embassy in Washington, likewise - for example - to Dr Mogini, who, as soon as he ceases to be the head of cabinet of Minister Mastella in the Prodi Government, goes to be a legal adviser at the UN in New York. I make this quotation because the rapporteur of the Cassazione judgment is, in fact, Dr. Mogini. What's the point, Mr. Undersecretary? Were there serious grounds for opportunity, whether or not polemics arose? You are well aware that, in 2014, this branch of Parliament had fired a draft law in which a new cause of abstention was inserted, in clear terms, which was, in fact, having carried out political activity on the opposite front. I have to tell the truth: in my opinion, it is the fact that we have carried out political activity anyway, because no less serious would be the presence in a college of a magistrate who has carried out politics on the same side of yours. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC) and CoR Groups]] And when discussing the reasons for abstention, no one questions the self-referential recognition of their independence. What is at stake, Mr Undersecretary, is the neutrality of the judge, the real appearance, the appearance of the judge's neutrality, the autonomy and independence of the judiciary. You are too young, Mr. Undersecretary, but your father will surely remember the words of Attorney General Guarnera, who said that, when a suspicious judge delivers a sentence, it, even if fair, is suspect in itself, because it suspects its origin. Even if the procedure on appeal had been crystal clear, the problem of the serious reasons for abstention would obviously remain. Mr Undersecretary, the European Court of Human Rights and our Supreme Court state that, when a judgment is to be overturned on appeal, there is an opportunity and need for the appeal judge to reopen the investigation and suffer the witnesses. I am well aware that it can be said that it is so in principle and that there is therefore a need for this scrutiny to be done by the judge. Being able to say 'yes' and being able to say 'no', that college of which Judge Sinisi was a member, which, as we said earlier, should have abstained, however, says 'no'. Between the two interpretations, in overturning from a judgment of absolution with full formula to a sentence of condemnation, one chooses the most negative interpretation for Minzolini. Mr Undersecretary, when I imagine you have studied the case, not being able to think that you simply read what was prepared by the legislative office, in the face of a repeated chain of episodes, each of which for amounts of 100, 120 or 130 euros, you wondered if it was not applicable, as requested, the attenuating referred to in Article 323- bis of the penal code, especially in the light of that sentence - it is an example, but the orientation is constant - of the Court of Cassation of 2015, whose rapporteur was Dr. Mogini, the same that we then see as the rapporteur in Cassation against Minzolini, which says, in very clear terms, that this attenuating must be applied, with reference to the individual episodes of crime - autonomous crimes entangled by the uniqueness of the criminal design - and that to nothing notes the complex of the proven? Here too there are two interpretations, one favourable and one unfavorable, and also in that case, that college, spoiled for the reasons I have already said, chooses the interpretation contrary to Minzolini. Still, Mr. Undersecretary, is it true or is it not true that Senator Minzolini had to return before the trial was even born, even before Dr. Di Pietro, the entire amount to Rai, woke up? How come you haven't been recognized as the bearer of damages? It will be said that that sum was then returned to Minzolini, but it was returned because the judge of work, giving him reason in the labor dispute, which had in the meantime established itself, had ordered his return. But should it be or should it not be kept in mind? Of course, if it had been held presents the attenuating of the compensation and if the diminutive referred to in Article 323- bis had been kept in mind, the penalty would inevitably have been less than two years, which is equivalent to saying that there was a need to exceed the two years of imprisonment, because due to the ridiculous automatisms of the Severino law, due to the overcoming of even one day of the roof of the two years, the judge - let us forget the Senate - would have established the decadence as senator, of Senator Minzolini. You have made such a perverse law that it empties of content and renders the Junta and the Senate of the mere cardinals, surrendering the decadence or not of a senator exclusively to the discretion of the judges, essentially to that judge who can determine whether the penalty is one year and 364 days (then no decadence), or whether that penalty is two years and one day (and then decadence). You've managed to pull out a law that considers the Senate's interlocation on such a matter to be completely useless. Mr Undersecretary (and I will finish, pending your reply which I hope will not be bureaucratic), the problem we are putting is all political and therefore do not come to talk about the trite and ritriti maximum systems. And then, Mr Undersecretary, members of the Democratic Party, explain to me the reason why, for a year and nine months, the House of Deputies has been subject to a law adopted here almost unanimously regulating the entry and exit from politics by the magistrates and finally putting a firm point on this issue. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senators Cuomo and Dalla Zuanna]] This is a firm point that we need because, by regulating this issue, we guarantee the autonomy and independence of the judiciary, we guarantee the tripartition of powers. It is a law intended by the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Council of the judiciary, a law intended by the President of the Republic, a law which, if it had been in force, would not have allowed what really happened. The Democratic Party - and I shall finish, Mr President - will be able to continue blocking this law in the House. But there will come a day when casually we will find a college with a former center-right politician who will condemn a center-left politician. And then, when that day comes, I beg you not to follow your double-mindedness and your ethical schizophrenia; shut up, for it is exactly what you have done so far. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u88	Senator D'Ascola, with reference to the related questioning n. 325, reserves the right to intervene in the reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u89	On behalf of the Assembly I address a greeting to the Presidents and Councillors of the Italian blind and visually impaired Union of the provinces of Caltanissetta, Enna and Siracusa, present in the gallery, accompanied by a representation of blind and visually impaired children who will be welcomed tomorrow by the President of the Republic. Thank you for your presence in the Senate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u90	The representative of the Government has the right to respond to the questions that have just been raised.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u91	Mr President, by means of the two inspection acts under discussion today, which are essentially similar, although Senator D'Ascola's and others' acts are more specifically related to procedural matters not directly affected by Senator Romani and others, various complaints are raised about the criminal proceedings against Senator Augusto Minzolini for the crime of sin for which he was held liable by irrevocable judgment. In particular, the honourable Members question the judgment issued in an appeal which, in the reform of the acquittal, affirmed the criminal responsibility of the defendant by failing to renew the judicial investigation in alleged violation of the principles expressed by the European Court of Human Rights in the Dan/Moldavia case by judgment of 5 July 2011 and in contrast with the jurisprudence of legitimacy on the point. They also complain about the violation of the obligation of abstention by one of the judges in the college for having held positions of government and for a long time been a member of the political group opposed to that of the defendant, Senator of the People of Freedom. Finally, they argue that the President of the Court of Legitimate Judgment would only be appointed in the vicinity of the hearing. They therefore ask what initiatives the Minister of Justice intends to take both in relation to the disciplinary profiles which may be found to be the responsibility of the magistrates involved in the process and in relation to the promotion of regulatory reforms inherent both in the discipline of the reform of the acquittal judgment and in relation to the incompatibility profiles for the magistrates who come in role as a result of expectation for parliamentary or political-administrative mandate. That being said, from the information acquired by the ministerial groups, it appears that the Court of Appeal of Rome has pronounced, on October 27, 2014, sentence against Augusto Minzolini, in order precisely to the crime of peculate, consumed in the capacity of director responsible of the Tg1, through unjustified use of the corporate credit card, considered legally existing, as well as proven and rationally justified, the subjective element of the crime, excluded instead from the court of first instance. The complex argumentative path followed by the Court in the motivational development of the judgment largely involves the subjective side of responsibility, concluding for the reasonable subsistence, in the species, of the dole, through a different demonstration evaluation of the evidence, documentary and testimonial acquired in the procedure at first instance. In particular, the Board of Appeal did not censor the reliability of the oral sources questioned, but, through the full re-reading of all the evidence acquired, it re-drafted overall assessments of the opposite direction. On the point it is known that the appeal judgment is a critical procedure, with the object of the judgment under appeal, so that the renewal of the evidence is a derogation from the principle of presumption of completeness of the investigation at first instance. The order does not, therefore, confer the obligation to exercise the power of the court of appeal to order the renewal of the debate, but binds and subordinates that power in its concrete exercise to the condition that the judge considers, in his discretion, that he cannot decide in the state of the proceedings. It is true that, by the influence of supranational jurisprudence, the Court of Cassation has stated that it is necessary to renew the investigation for the re-sumption of the declarative evidence, especially in cases where the court of appeal intends to reform the absolute judgment, but precisely this duty is limited to the verification of the reliability of the declarative evidence, where a different assessment is expected of these. This is the point of the question, because it is true, as I have pointed out, that the Court of Cassation has established this principle of renewing the investigation when it has been acquitted at first instance; but it limits this obligation and speaks of duty, to the declarative evidence. Therefore, it establishes this principle, also because in our order - and it is also the subject of reform of the code of criminal procedure - there is another open theme, that of the renewal of the acts, therefore of the orality of the evidence at first instance, while the investigation of the case in appeal, in second degree, becomes in fact a residual institution, therefore it assumes the theme of understanding also in the reform of the code of criminal procedure, as well as in that of the change of the judge, when it changes, regarding the taking of the evidence. In the present case, the assessment carried out by the Court of Appeal, which is a sign contrary to that of the judge of first instance - who, as has been recalled, acquitted Senator Minzolini - found that it was inevitable from the reading of the reasoning of the judgment exclusive foundation in strictly legal arguments, which led to the exclusion of the good faith of the accused in the erroneous interpretation of the provisions relating to the use of RAI company cards. The explanatory statement is therefore based on the subjective element, which is why the Court of Appeal considered that it did not apply that principle of the duty to renew which has been mentioned and which I myself stressed here. As a result, it appeared to the college - which took note of it on the grounds - completely superfluous the renewal of the debate that both the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR), which I mentioned at the beginning, and that of the Court of Cassation provide under certain conditions. In fact, it seems appropriate to clarify how the principle of law proposed by the questioner - stated in the European Court's judgment of 5 July 2011 - was considered by the judgment of the Court of Cassation cited as a principle to be observed (this is another point that has been underlined) "in principle" because the judgment of the ECHR constitutes an expression of the principle of immediacy, which is considered to be implemented when there is a relationship without any intermediates between the taking of evidence and the decision. In judgment 32169 of 2014, cited by the same interrogators, the courts of legality also reasoned as follows: In order to allow an assessment of the reliability of the statements, it is necessary for the judge to make direct contact with the sources of evidence, adding that this is an absolute rule because such listening must take place "in principle" because generally simple reading does not solve the complex task of assessing the intrinsic reliability of the witness. The investigations carried out by the competent articulation showed compliance with these parameters. The complaint raised on this point therefore involves a question of strict merit, anchored in the present case and I assume that the assessment of the panel was, of course, considered correct by the Court of Cassation which confirmed the judgment. The above considerations mark, to the evidence, the limit - I want to emphasize it here - of the Guardasigilli union (and therefore of the Ministry), which, already according to the constitutional dictation, has no prerogatives that can translate into assessments of the merit of judicial decisions, except in the hypotheses of abnormity. On the other hand, as regards the questions raised in relation to the pre-constitutional and impartiality of the court, the information acquired shows that both the college of appeal and the court of legality have been composed in accordance with the current table forecasts. In fact, you know that there is an organizational table system that must safeguard the natural principle of the pre-established judge, which must guarantee the citizen in the sense that the judge is pre-established before the file arrives at the section or even at the judicial office. For this system, the tables are approved by the CSM, are respected by the Court of Appeal of Rome and the Court of Cassation, and have been adopted at a time prior to the date of the celebration of the judgment. It should also be noted that the proceedings before the Court of Cassation were brought at the hearing on 12 November 2015, after deferment of the original date, in the adoption of an application for the postponement of the defenders who had been received - according to the documents - orally in July and formalized in writing on 29 September, as shown in the case file. With reference, however, to the doubts about the impartiality of one of the members of the appeal panel, raised in relation to previous parliamentary and ministerial experience, it is noted that the cases of abstention of the judge are strictly provided for by the Code of Rite and the state do not contemplate the hypothesis of a previous political commitment of the magistrate who cannot integrate the hypothesis of serious personal enmity only for the general militancy in different political parties. Therefore, today the rule of abstention that exists in our code provides for the obligation of abstention and therefore also the institute of objection, the part of which is free to submit a request for objection, where it will decide a subject other than the one refused. At a time when there is no obligation to abstain, today this institution is provided for by serious personal enmity. The serious personal enmity cannot be reduced by having carried out political activity in a different political party. With regard to the residual hypothesis of the serious grounds of opportunity, which is another reason why the obligation to abstain must be triggered, the same must be assessed in the concrete posing of the case, and in relation to the connection of the facts for which it is carried out with the public and political functions carried out. In the present case, it does not appear that the defendant has rejected some of the judges of the college, nor has he represented, even later, concrete elements to anchor the serious grounds of opportunity that would have imposed the abstention of the judge. Therefore, in the state, the acts that have been examined by the Ministry's articulations do not appear to constitute a violation of functional duties. Indeed, the issue of the exercise of the judges' passive electoral rights, and the consequences that investments, political and administrative may determine on the subsequent exercise of the duties and on the possible incompatibility of the magistrates, are the subject of wide-ranging debate, both public and parliamentary. So, on this subject, President Palma spoke of both a parliamentary measure and a topic that is the subject of the political agenda. It is not only the subject of debate in the public debate, but also in the parliamentary debate. The Minister of Justice therefore follows closely the parliamentary process of the legislative proposal n. 2188, which contains provisions on candidacy, eligibility and relocation of magistrates in the event of political and administrative elections, as well as the assumption of positions of national government and territorial authorities. Changes to the rules on abstention and recusal of judges, transmitted by the Senate on 13 March 2014 and currently being examined in the Commission at the Chamber of Deputies. CUOMO (PD). He's been stuck for a year and a half! FERRI, State Secretary for Justice. The legislative initiative, inspired by the need to restore organicity and coherence to the existing regulatory system, transferring at the level of primary source a discipline to a large extent so far entrusted to the circulars of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, aims to combine the impartiality and independence of the judicial function with the legitimate exercise of the political rights of the magistrates, while avoiding any interference with the performance of judicial functions. From the point of view expressly highlighted in the inspection act, Article 6 regulates the relocation in the role of judges - ordinary, administrative, accounting and military (and not even honorary) - who have carried out the electoral mandate to the national Parliament or to the European Parliament, providing that, at the end of the electoral mandate, the magistrate cannot carry out the previous functions. The composition of the delicate balance between the values at stake will therefore be put back to Parliament's seat. Among other things, there is also the whole issue of nominations and elections, including with regard to local authorities and regional authorities. With reference, finally, to the fearful risks of connection between the measure of the sentence and the forfeiture for incandidability occurred, pursuant to Legislative Decree n. 235 of 2012, it is necessary to recall the pronunciation of the Constitutional Court (the judgment n. 236 of 19 November 2015, published in the Official Gazette n. 47 of 25 November 2015), that - as it is known - has declared not founded the question of constitutional legitimacy raised by the TAR Campania in reference to article 11, paragraph 1, letter a), of the aforementioned legislative decree (which is the only text of the provisions in the matter of incandidability and prohibition to hold elective and governmental positions consequent to final sentences of conviction for non-injury crimes, pursuant to article 1, paragraph 63, of law n. 190 of 2012) in relation to article 10, paragraph 1, letter c), of the same legislative decree, raised, in reference to articles 2 and 4, second paragraph, and 97, second paragraph, of our Constitution. In fact, it is clear that the Consulta has considered it not unreasonable, and in any case it falls within the full political discretion that characterizes the activity of the legislator, the provision of preconditions and conditions for candidacy to elective positions that do not have a sanctioning nature. In this respect, however, I would like to stress that the assessment of the existence of these conditions is put to the parliamentary bodies of self-dedication and not to the Ministry of Justice. This assessment is therefore the responsibility of the parliamentary self-declaration bodies and certainly not of the Ministry of Justice. In any case, this is an issue which, from a governmental point of view, the Commission is following and it is right that, as I said, there is a reflection in the debate, because we all have an interest in guaranteeing citizens a third and impartial judge and strengthening the autonomy and independence of the judiciary means certainly also defending not only the substantial impartiality, but also the one that must appear to the citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u94	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr. Undersecretary, you have exceeded all my expectations. Although I am familiar with judicial bureaucratic jargon, I understood very little and, if my colleagues do not want me, they understood them even less, because as you spoke the disinterest of this House grew. Mr. Undersecretary, your answer is a deep disappointment, one verse, and a nostalgic return to the past, another verse. I remember when, going to Naples to attend the course of the notary Capozzi, I often came across a banquet near the station, where some Neapolitan docs played a certain game. You, Mr Undersecretary, did not give any answer and, moreover, changed the meaning of the questioning. With a lot of synthesis and - I hope - without recourse to bureaucratic jargon, I will try to be clear. Firstly, we did not ask the Minister to assess the judge's behaviour on the interpretation of a particular rule, but we said to the Minister: "Dear Minister, a ruling of the European Court of Human Rights states that, in the event of a change in the judgment at first instance, the Court of Appeal must renew the investigation. Do you want to intervene on this, yes or no? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] You, Mr. Undersecretary, must understand that it cannot depend on the discretion of the individual magistrate the fate of a single defendant. You didn't answer that question. He spoke of what is not within the prerogatives of the Minister, whom we know. I repeat: do you want to intervene or not? It does not seem to me that in the past, I do not say the Ministry of Justice, but the Government has been flawed with regard to legislative initiatives. Secondly, Mr. Undersecretary, who said anything about personal enmity? Who did? We say that there were serious reasons for opportunity and you, who also mentioned an article in that bill, why did you not mention that article which provides for a specific cause of abstention in this particular? This was what we imagined it to be. Mr Undersecretary, since the Ministry has a powerful legislative office, you know that abstentions are not declared, but must be accepted. Can you explain to me why Senator Toth's abstention was accepted in the case against Forlani? She was welcomed because he asked how she could judge Forlani, a person who had made politics on her own side. That abstention was accepted precisely because there were grave reasons for opportunity that you, with a speech - excuse me - flat, sloppy, sloppy in some ways, tend to liquidate in that way. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you tell the legislative offices, you come to make politics, not for the quirks and for the legal Byzantineisms. Thirdly, Mr Secretary, the Minister of Justice follows the law currently pending. He would stop following her, stop sitting as a spectator to see this law that walks by hand and in reality stands still and maybe occasionally breathes. Move, move: it is not possible that a law is a year and nine months. I want to say this very clearly: if you need an amendment that changes the way you wish the return to the judiciary of those who leave politics, this amendment will be done. Personal destinies and fortunes matter nothing compared to the safeguarding of the founding values of a society. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]] We're tired of these games. We are tired, and I say this frankly, that I have been a magistrate, but I, as Minister of Justice, have resigned from the judiciary because I knew perfectly well that it did not make sense to go back to the judiciary. You have to finish it. Do you want to be political? Do politics but then you can't imagine coming back like virgins to be magistrates and to distribute years of jail to Titus and Caius entrenching you behind a robe that you basically made less neutral. [[Applause from the FI-PdLXVII and AP(NCD-UDC). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u97	D'ASCOLA (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I, too, am not satisfied with the Secretary's reply for a number of reasons which in a very brief manner list even though Senator Palma's speech has already indicated some of them. In the meantime, as far as abstention is concerned, we have never expressed ourselves in the sense of compulsory abstention as shown in the reply. We reasoned on the serious reasons for opportunity but also on the optional abstention which should have advised the judge not to take part in a decision that he could not be impartial about, meaning impartially a condition of absolute neutrality, i.e. lack of any conditioning. As is not satisfactory the answer of the declared constitutionality of the Severino law because it is clear that the Constitutional Court is ruling on a possible conflict between that law, between some of its norms and constitutional provisions but here there has been a problem of opportunity and choice of legislative policy that obviously lies outside the problems of constitutionality. Just as we have not raised a problem with the composition of the Court of Cassation, we do not understand that segment of its report which concerns it. Then it must be said that the problem of the renewal of the trial is dealt with correctly in his report, but that does not solve the problem at all. I have to be clear: it is clear that, when the evidence assessed is not declarative, it is not possible to renew a debate investigation that should concern the taking of the declarative evidence, but in the meantime the case law that you mentioned raises a different problem. It is said that a previous acquittal judgment cannot be amended only on the basis of a rereading of the acts of the judgment at first instance, which is precisely what you declare to have occurred. Not only that, but that very jurisprudence affirms a principle that lies in a circle with a much more dilated diameter. It is basically said - and the statement is also contained in several judgments of the European Court of Human Rights - that the appeal judgment, to say better, the appeal judgment is a weak judgment compared to that of first instance, if absolute, because, where a judgment of absolution follows a constitutional principle of presumption of not guilty, on the contrary, that of conviction is a judgment that conflicts with that presumption. And, where it is sufficient that the evidence, although existing, is incomplete or contradictory, the sentence of condemnation implies the overcoming of reasonable doubt. It is still clear that we cannot talk about sentences of condemnation and acquittal sentences... (The Undersecretary Ferri converses with a senator). I would like to speak to the Undersecretary, please, without other Members getting in the way and making it impossible to communicate. With this premise, it is clear that we cannot talk about the two sentences as if they were the same thing. That is why our principles are condensed in that concluding statement that one cannot think of overturning a strong judgment with a weak judgment through a mere rereading of the arguments, above all - let me say, Mr Undersecretary - if the fact was based on the evaluation of the subjective component of the fact of crime, i.e. on impalpable components, the motivation of which is frequently connected or linked to assumptions and conjectures in relation to their existence. Beyond these statements - and there may be others, but the five minutes I have been given are too few for me to delay on these aspects - our interrogation has a serious and specific symbolic intent. Through this interrogation, we want to ignore the concrete story that has occupied, unfortunately with that dramatic result, Senator Minzolini, because we would have asked the question who had been the senator or the congressman interested in the affair. It is a symbolic fact, without any belonging to a political group and precisely in this affirmation of the symbolic value, as well as political (as I will say at some time from here), it is the fact that we do not know whether, in the secret of that chamber of council, the suspect judge has possibly supported the reason for the affirmation and confirmation of the judgment at first instance. It is precisely this circumstance that makes our affirmation of a great symbolic value strong, when we demand from the Ministry of Justice a control and evaluation of the draft laws that would go in the direction of the relocation of the magistrates in the most prestigious position possible, as we have clearly said, because it does not seem like a sort of claim. A position, however, which prevents that, after having been political, after having taken part in conflicts with other political groups, after having supported members of its political group on the opposite side, we can then return to perform a function that necessarily implies a condition of impartiality. But the problem, as I have mentioned, is also political, because it would be unthinkable that the Parliament of a great nation - as we consistently and rightly call ourselves - would not be interested in an affair such as that of Senator Minzolini. We have apparently, not necessarily in reality (but, when we talk about essential guarantees, the appearance coincides with reality), a judgment pronounced in conflict with the constitutional principles of the right process. Mr Undersecretary, in Article 111 of our Constitution is there or is there not the principle that the judge must, in appearance, guarantee, beyond the concrete of the chamber of council, his impartiality? Well, in this case we record that it did not happen, because in appearance Senator Minzolini was judged by who would have done better to abstain. We talked about serious reasons for opportunity, but also about an assessment that we would like that judge to have made in recognizing that it was better that another judge had judged Senator Minzolini. In this context, a number of related assessments emerge that have not been pleasing, so that we are faced with a judgment that leaves bitter in the mouth. Not only was it not felt that it was not possible to refrain from making that judgment not only, but above all it appeared impartial, but, moreover, it was subverted a case-law framework which would prohibit a rereading of the material assumed at first instance. And, moreover, a sentence even greater than that requested by the prosecutor has been applied. In short, all these components and what happened make of the trial that ended with the sentence of condemnation of Senator Minzolini a trial that, in all conscience, none of us can define right, a process that has conflict with consolidated constitutional principles. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]] , CoR and FI‐PdL XVII and Senator Council). PRESIDENT. - The debate is The questioning of the agenda is thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-546.ana.u98	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.56 p.m.
