ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u4	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u8	Today we commemorate the figure of Marco Biagi, brutally killed by a terrorist hand on March 19, 2002.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u11	SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked you to remember the odious murder of Marco Biagi on his 13th anniversary, because we must not, especially here, forget the generous sacrifice of a civil hero aware of the risk he was taking, the tragic underestimation of the danger on the part of the State that could not protect him, the anomaly of a nation bloodied for decades by an ideological terrorism that had no equal in any other country, the topicality of his intuitions that so much influenced even the most recent reforms of work. I wish first of all to join in the unchanged pain of his family members, to whom nothing and no one can return the immense void left by a father, husband and exemplary brother. I would also like to draw the attention of all of us, so that the climate of political hatred in which he was murdered never again can be repeated. Never, I emphasize, the legitimate dissent about the merit of public policies can lead to the grave error committed by those who concentrated their criticisms on his person, making it, without will, the objective of sick minds, but not casually produced as a result of so much ideological hatred long spread. Let us remember not to repeat, always to maintain mutual human respect, never to forget the man who is present in the ideas we contest. Let me also point out how much his convictions have survived. Marco was a person of solid principles, he had a lucid vision of the new world that was being produced through the process of globalization, he suggested a more evolved combination of the needs of companies and those of workers. He drew it in the White Paper, which I had the honour of signing with him, so that our economy would become more competitive and capable of generating quality work. He proposed not only flexibility corresponding to the age of uncertainty; he indicated, above all, in the continuous possibility of people having access to knowledge and skills, the most effective protection, the path of self-sufficiency of each at a time of continuous and imponderable changes. I am aware that recent labour and education reforms have been strongly influenced by his project, and that it would therefore be right to define the status of the work, as he wished, the new single text that the Government is preparing to draft on the basis of the delegation received. However, Mr President, finding his convictions in the reforms does not return it in any way to those who have esteemed and loved him, and probably myself, to say it with one of his fellow citizens, I want to find a meaning to a story that does not make sense. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC), PD, FI-PdL XVII, M5S, LN-Aut, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Mixed.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u14	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak on this tragic occasion in order to recall a personality of great intellectual and moral importance. However, in order to give a sense of the need that politics must be able to synthesise positively, fully recognizing me in the intervention of Senator Sacconi, I give up to express myself further. This is needed in our country at this time of particular difficulty: we must express solidarity, conviction of a change of course also of politics and its ability to face the diversity of opinions not through the extremism of words, as happened in the tragic story of Marco Biagi, but trying to be dialectical and positive. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PD and AP (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u17	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, thirteen years have passed since Professor Marco Biagi was brutally murdered for his work and his institutional and civil commitment. Marco Biagi, an ordinary for many years at the University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, and among the leading experts in Community law, animator of studies, researches and educational initiatives, especially in the field of international labour law and the labour market, president of the Italian Association for Industrial Relations Studies, was a lawyer appreciated in Italy and abroad. After having been at the forefront in the preparation of many proposals for labour policy of the central-left governments - such as the reform of the socio-cooperative worker or the proposal for the statute for work - it was one of the extenders of the White Paper on Labour. Professor Biagi was brutally killed just for that white book, for which many remember him. Few, however, remember and say that the reform that Professor Biagi wanted is not exactly what was implemented after his death: just open the white paper to understand it. So if we're going to pay homage to Professor Marco Biagi, we should really try to do the reform he wanted. The White Paper contained a number of proposals, all of which were obviously questionable, but all inspired by the intention of experimenting in Italy too with relationships and labour market structures that have been experimented for some time in Europe. However, it provided for those forms of income support which must necessarily accompany and support the worker in his or her journey of life and explained the importance of investment for the practical implementation of active policies for the integration of workers, training and retraining of unemployed and long-term unemployed: the so-called strengthening of safeguards in the market. In the White Paper it was said that the real answer to poverty must be work; citizenship work, I would say, the one enshrined in our Constitution, but it must be supported by forms of income support; guaranteed minimum income, as happens throughout Europe, which we of the 5 Star Movement like to call citizenship income. I would also like to mention and highlight the role of Professor Biagi as chairman of the committee of experts responsible for preparing a single text on safety and health at work which was first set up in 1996 at the Ministry of Labour. Again, the reform that Biagi hoped for remained unfinished and - again here - the true commemoration, the true homage to the professor's memory would be to arrive at a reform of Legislative Decree No 81 of 9 April 2008 (the so-called single text on safety in the workplace), which is actually a single text. To these solutions we should all converge, without distinction of party, of prevention and of other kind. On the other hand, safety at the workplace and the protection of workers are not, in themselves, right-wing or left-wing, because their effective value and their ability to effectively protect those who need it find a sense only where they translate into concrete forms of protection and equity. In fact, on the ground of labour policy, the traditional opposition between the right and the left makes no sense. What is needed are common sense, vision of the future, justice and the protection of those who are weaker. This is the message that Professor Biagi left us: a message that is stronger than any wall, any ideology and any indiscriminate refusal to dialogue; even stronger than the barbarity of terrorism. [[Applause from the M5S and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u20	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the passing of time brings justice and clarifies the wrongs and reasons. The passing of time - thirteen years since his horrible and senseless murder - has rendered justice to what Marco Biagi has done, written and thought of in his life too short. His figure, instead of being grayed, overcome by changes, stands more and more sharp as that of a true reformist, one of the few free thinkers of our country. That Italy had the worst labour market in Europe, as Biagi himself said, was something that many people claimed. No one, however, has had the same capacity to give clear and convincing answers. Starting from an overall vision of the world of work, without obtuse ideologism, convenient lies and partial conveniences, Biagi had indicated the central nodes that, if faced in time, would lead to a different and stronger development of our country, to another history. And there is little satisfaction in the fact that, thirteen years after his death, some of the reforms proposed by Biagi were finally accepted by the left who had blindly fought him for years. Then the left who accused him of wanting to cancel the rights and of wanting to create insecurity through flexibility. With the calmness and reasonableness that he had, Marco Biagi replied that his was an overall reform of the world of work that could not be judged by reading only some part of it. On the one hand, in fact, the right of each company to organize production in the most convenient way, without having to undergo anachronistic rigidities, was recognized; on the other hand, it was clear that no worker could be left behind. If one remembers only his decisive words on the importance of intelligent flexibility, part-time flexibility and a dynamic labour market, he is seriously wronged. Because, indissolubly linked to all this Biagi expressed the absolute need for a deep reform of social shock absorbers in order to defend every worker from the effects of unemployment, to facilitate reintegration and to make the public and private employment services truly effective. The sadness for his death remains, the regret for having lost a clear and courageous person. And I wonder what it would be today, if Marco Biagi were still alive, the extent and centrality of his contribution in an Italy that ransacks to get out of the crisis. I am convinced that, with him, everything would be easier, more just. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u23	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, with the carnation I carry, Marco Biagi I can only remember him as a socialist, reformist Juslavorist. Precisely because of his reformist ideas he was killed, but his executioners killed man, not his ideas, which after thirteen years continue to be well present in all of us. Personally, I got to know him in Pisa when he was at St. Anne's. We joined the Socialist Party together in 1974, when he was a 24-year-old and I was slightly younger. We had great ideas and I never thought I'd be here today to commemorate a man who, by his ability, surely should have been here to lead the country for economic recovery, for the problems of work. I end by making a thought out loud. I believe that Mr Sacconi's intervention more than any other expressed, on the 13th anniversary of Biagi's death, the significance and importance that he had for Italy and the workers, for Italian and European socialism, a man like Marco Biagi. The question I ask is this: why are those of reformist, socialist culture always having to leave their mark with blood on this patriotic soil? Because terrorists are afraid of this idea and try to shut their mouths in any way, even with blood. After Senator Sacconi's intervention, I think a good silence was never written and that's why I'm silent. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and Senator Ferrara.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u26	Stitches (LN-Aut). Mr President, it is certainly difficult to remember a moment like what we experienced thirteen years ago, when a person, a scholar, a man who worked for the workers, left his life at the hands of brigadeists, terrorists, who made a violent gesture not so much towards a single figure, but against the State, against that country that wanted to change. Marco Biagi collaborated with the then minister Roberto Maroni and with Senator Sacconi, and was engaged in a great attempt, that of modernising the world of work in our country trying to introduce elements of novelty that could allow our workers to enjoy more protection, but above all to have a better expectation, regarding the possibility of finding themselves occupied, for them, for the members of their families and for all those who were close to the expectation of finding a job outlet. When we talk about Marco Biagi we must talk about his ideas, which have not been absolutely killed - I use this term remembering that vile, dramatic gesture - because they continued to circulate, even in our classrooms, and found a concrete application. Perhaps this is the true testimony of the defeat of those who thought to kill, with a man, the ideas that instead were good, shared and would lead our country towards a different outlet and certainly easier from the occupational point of view and that could have interested many of our fellow citizens, young and no longer young. In fact, even the people who were in difficulty, and maybe were a few more years old, were taken into consideration in the proposals that Marco Biagi made together with a number of other people. I know Michele Tiraboschi, a Bergamo like me, who surely has collected the legacy of Marco Biagi: just read his writings and listen to his words in the various conferences to understand how good it can be in those ideas that were already being carried out. I will end with a quote. A few months ago, an important magistrate told me that he was not afraid to die at the hands of the mob, to be killed by the mob, because he knew very well that his death would be a condemnation and a defeat for the mob. For the Mafia it was more useful for him to live, rather than to see him dead and to see, rightly, recognized in him a figure in search of the affirmation of legality. This was his strength, his will and this is the battle that he is still carrying out with so much success and with so much danger for his life. Then the brigadeists did not make this assessment when they killed Marco Biagi, and this is probably their greatest defeat, because Marco Biagi's ideas continue to be present in this House today. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u29	ICHINO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a connection, I believe, between the story of Marco Biagi, which summarizes the story of a country suffering from fate and intolerance, and the episode, if possible even more serious, of violent obscurantism, of violent intolerance towards ideas, religious opinions, of the same culture of others, which yesterday in Tunis has made twenty victims, which we are crying today. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Puglia and Centinario]] Those 20 victims remind us that this very serious disease is far from being healed. To kill Marco Biagi was, of course, only the murderous hand of terrorists; but to make him the target of murderous violence was a very hard political confrontation on the issues of work, which I fail to define as a kind of heart attack of the political-democratic system. We also owe to the sacrifice of Marco Biagi if the country is healing from that mortal disease today; even if, as we see, that disease now sieges us around our borders. Fatiosity does not need bad faith, even if it sometimes goes with it. Faziosity is essentially the daughter of fear. Just as, in the face of an alien enemy, with whom there is no way to communicate, fear impels us only to shoot him first, in the same way, in the face of reasonings that upset our way of thinking, we feel the temptation to disqualify in advance those who propose them, to close the debate before it even opens. It is the technique of taboo, of cordon health, against which there is no effective reasoning. To overcome that barrier, refined arguments need little or nothing. The most effective weapon is a testimony of personal disinterest and a spirit of service and sacrifice, which induces the interlocutors to intuitively understand the need for confrontation. This is the testimony that Marco Biagi has given to the highest degree and this is the decisive contribution that he has made, not only in order to defuse the culture of the work of our country from the dry of a harmful obscurantism, but also to reveal a political dialectical intoxicated, precisely, by factiosity. So strong was this testimony of his - pushed to the point of knowingly putting his life at risk even when every defense had been guiltyly removed - that, after his death, disqualifying his person was no longer possible. It was here that we witnessed a new chapter in the phenomenology of factiosity: since it was no longer possible to disqualify him, we tried to separate his work from him, denying that it was his work. How many times, and by how many eminent representatives of the political, academic and trade union establishment we have heard in recent years: "Marco Biagi was a person too intelligent, educated and well-read to be able to write that law." And those who, even without saying this sentence - which outrageously implies the total disqualification of that reform on the level of intelligence, culture and moral honesty - still today try substantially the very same operation, refusing to call by his name the law that he wrote by his fist. They call it "Law 30" for fear that the admiration or even only the respect aroused by his extraordinary testimony may cause people to look without prejudice to the contents and effects of what he has elaborated and proposed! But time is gallant man: today everyone is forced to recognize that law - accused unconsulted of being the cause of the spread of precariousness in our country - in reality has not established any precarious employment relationship that did not exist already, perhaps with a different name, and has imposed a more complete discipline, in some respects even more restrictive than the previous order. If a defect had, that law, it was if anything to limit the reformist intervention to the margins of labor law, without touching its heart, that is, the rule of job property that is by its nature the creator of a deep division between core workers and peripheral workers, between protected and unprotected. But that defect was certainly not a result of a timidity in the reformist approach of the extensor of the law, but of the barricades erected by his opponents. The essential part of the intellectual heritage that Marco Biagi left us, however, is not so much in this or that contingent choice of labour policy, but in the affirmation of a new method for the very approach of the labour policy debate: a method founded, first of all on the confrontation between law, economy and sociology, but based above all on international comparison. Discussing those ideas with respect, rejecting any temptation to close the debate preventively, is a civil and moral duty for anyone who cares about social progress and democracy itself. The battle against terrorism is also won in this way. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Sacconi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u30	He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u31	Mr President, the Government is associated with the memory of Professor Marco Biagi: an intellectual of the highest level, by his choice at the service of the State; a modern reformist who incessantly sought the balance between the inalienable rights of the person and the collective needs of the community; a civic hero, lucid precursor of analysis and ideas that have accompanied us in all these years in search of solutions that he had already indicated to us. Who knew him, as happened to me, esteemed and with him worked, still remembers with emotion that night of many years ago, the dismay, pain and discomfort that took us. We felt like it was all over. If we can say today - as is often rhetorically done - that a sacrifice has left its mark, this is the case. The country proceeds, the world of work advances towards new perspectives between contradictions and difficulties. Well, for much of what is good and better today Italian society and the world of work live and have built merit is, still today, much attributed to Professor Marco Biagi. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and AP groups (NCD-UDC) and Senator De Cristofaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u32	Ladies and gentlemen of the senators, yesterday the world witnessed an act of vile barbarism and unacceptable violence. The events in Tunis are an expression of intolerance which requires all the institutions and each of us to be firm in principles and intelligence in building together the foundations of civilization along the paths of peace, justice and integration. In memory of the victims and in a spirit of genuine closeness to their families, I invite the Assembly to a moment of recollection. [[The President stands up and with him the whole House, who observes a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u35	RICHIUTI (PD). Mr President, yesterday in Tunis we were surprised by a cowardly and senseless attack. The political violence of ISIS struck blindly and wanted to show that no part of North Africa is safe. I therefore express my most heartfelt, unbelieving and sorrowful closeness to Mr. Sergio and to the whole family of Giuseppina Biella, native of Desio and resident in Meda; likewise to the relatives of Francesco Caldara, Novara, and Orazio Conte, of Turin. My thoughts also go to the families of the victims of the other countries involved and those of Tunisia. 10:08 a.m. (Follow-up). The Italian victims paid tragically also as visitors animated by a spirit of friendship, curiosity and solidarity. The journey into our culture has always been this: a way to establish bonds of mutual knowledge and exchange, to banish wars and violence from the vocabulary of international relations. It is no coincidence that Islamic terrorism has gone on unarmed tourists to a museum. I am sure that politics will come back to say its own, to take the field back by its means, its mediations, its procedures, its scope of commercial relations and institutional and cultural confrontation; I am sure that none of us will bend to the blackmail of terror. It is only when politics is silent, when European Chancellors are afone and helpless that peace and stability are compromised and we remain at the mercy of criminals without scruples and without humanity. That's why we cling to the families of the victims, we cry with them, but we do not surrender to the domination of entrepreneurship of international fear. [[Applause from the PD, Misto-SEL and Senator Bencini groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u38	Mazzoni (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group - Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura I express my condolences for the victims of yesterday's vile attack in Tunis. Let me say a few words about the fact that Tunisia is not Libya, where the revolt against the Gaddafi regime, also because of the tragic errors of the West, has become a struggle of all against all who have opened the way to the Islamic caliphate and has allowed to conquer ever larger portions of territory. But Tunisia is not even Egypt, where it took the enlightened coup of al-Sisi to put the Islamic fundamentalists of Muslim brotherhood out of play. Tunisia's spring did not bring dramatic upheavals, so much so that democracy was strengthened. But even a strong democracy can be put in danger of the combined presence of terrorist groups moving within its territory and of fighting that has taken place, for several months, along the Algerian border against Salafist gangs that have organic relations and with Al Qaeda of the Maghreb. Then there is another element that should not be underestimated. Tunisia has been one of the largest suppliers of jihadist recruits to the ISIS militias fighting in Syria and Iraq in recent months, but last night's big demonstration in Tunis against terrorism is a great sign of hope: it is the signal that there is a democratic Tunisia ready to challenge the caliphate. We must all look ourselves in the eye today and tell ourselves clearly that perhaps it is not by chance that, for the first time, ISIS yesterday shed Italian blood and we must count the first victims of the war that the caliphate has declared to us. It is necessary, therefore, to rediscover the same spirit of national cohesion that allowed us to overcome internal terrorism and it is essential that the Government implement all measures aimed at guaranteeing the security of citizens on the eve of three crucial events that await us this year: the exhibition of the Holy Shroud, the Expo and the Jubilee that will begin on 8 December. In fact, ISIS has repeatedly pointed to Christendom's symbolic places as its privileged goals. In the last hours intelligence services have launched the alarm for possible actions also in Italy, whose risk is therefore becoming more and more concrete. So whether we are willing or unwilling, we are already in this conflict and must equip ourselves accordingly. In the background of the terrorist attack in Tunisia, the rapid solution of the Libyan crisis must be accelerated in order to prevent ISIS from expanding its areas of activity also to neighbouring countries and, above all, to export their total war to Europe through Italy. The international community must stabilize Libya at any cost. It is an imperative priority for our national security and, therefore, we are on the eve of a heavy commitment to which we must all live up to. We absolutely must mobilize, so that our victims of yesterday are the first and the last of this war that ISIS has declared to us. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, LN-Aut and LAG groups (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u41	Stitches (LN-Aut). Madam President, of course I am speaking to express my condolences and my sympathy to the entire Group of the North League for all the victims of yesterday's attack: for the four Italians in particular, but also for all twenty-four people who have died. I would also like to express my wish to the wounded who are currently fighting for their survival, some of whom unfortunately are certainly in quite precarious situations. What happened in Tunisia must make us think, because it happened within a country other than those of the area with which it borders. It is a country that - as its President said yesterday - tried to take a path that looks at democracy, of course with a certain declination, knowing how complex it is to implement its principles in that reality. However, this is a path that must be supported and encouraged. The attack was carried out in a symbolic place because, if it is true that the first objective was Parliament, it must be said that the Bard Museum is the largest in Africa and is perhaps the place of culture, the place of cultural reference, for a large number of African citizens. This must make us think, because it was known that there was still the presence of many foreign citizens. And, therefore, the echo of an event that if it had taken place within the Tunisian Parliament, rather than within the Bardo Museum, it would have been world-wide. It has happened inside the museum and has resulted in the loss of lives of people belonging to various nationalities, and this today requires a reflection: a reflection that, as far as only 2015 is concerned, has already asked us for the Paris attack on the writing of "Charlie Hebdo"; it has requested the attack in Copenhagen and requires us constantly, looking at our home, also the public opinion, which is very careful and very fearful. In this regard, before three important events have been mentioned that will affect our country in the coming weeks and months: the exhibition of the Holy Shroud, the Expo and the Jubilee, which are very delicate events as well as important, to be managed with attention. Our luck is to live in a country attentive to what happens inside it and that, therefore, draws everyone to their responsibilities. I hope that what happened in Tunis will be a further stimulus to those who govern us, to those who represent the Commission and to those who work in certain areas linked to the prevention and security of citizens, and therefore aimed at preventing dramatic events from happening, to be even more determined to tackle this challenge with the right rigour. In fact, it is a question of making choices that are not drastic, but just in defence of the citizens and the security of our country, in order to prevent such facts, which have concerned - in the case of yesterday - Italian and European citizens outside the borders of the European Union, can happen also within our country. I believe that on the instrument we have at our disposal today, which is the debate in the other branch of Parliament on the decree-law on terrorism, we must apply ourselves to include new measures that can give further guarantees to our citizens. I hope that the Government will accept this invitation, because these dramatic events cannot be silenced and deserve adequate answers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u44	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I rise to associate my own words, my party and my group with the condolences that my fellow Members expressed a few minutes ago and to express feelings of closeness and solidarity first and foremost with the families of the victims. I would also like to make a very brief consideration - I imagine then that we will have the opportunity to talk about it more widely, when we think we will do a deepening - about what is happening in the countries of North Africa and unfortunately now also in Tunisia. The consideration is linked to what has been noted in the last hours by many analysts and observers - in my opinion very agreeable - about the fact that yesterday was hit a country like Tunisia that, moreover among the few in North Africa, has been able to give a true path to the Arab spring and put in place, in the past months, a completed democratic path, a new Constitution and meaningful forms of participation that have affected a substantial part of the population. In short, it really is a country that, over the course of these months, has tried to move from a condition of dictatorship to a state of democracy. It is certainly not a case, Madam President, if ISIS' cutthroats and murderers strike a country like Tunisia, where there is such a significant and important democratic path. But fortunately it is not even a coincidence that not only we, who look at what is happening on the other side of the sea, in North Africa, but above all the people of Tunisia yesterday mobilized and said no to terrorism, no to terror and yes to democracy. We have to be with those women and those men. We must be with democracy and against terror. And we must encourage and promote all democratic paths from below, which are the only ones, despite everything, that can be today the real antidote and the real opponent of fundamentalist terrorism. [[Applause from the Mist-SEL, PD and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u47	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, I rise to express the closeness of my Group to the families of the victims of the events in Tunisia and to remind this House that, for a long time, the 5 Star Movement has been calling for a commitment of foreign policy, especially in Libya and Tunisia, which are the two bulwarks (especially Tunisia) of an area that needs democracy and is working hard to build it. The attacks that have occurred must in some way affect your consciences and those of the Government, because up to now we have exported mainly corruption and weapons. I do not want to accuse the whole of foreign policy, because we have a competent Deputy Minister who has certainly done a good job. For the rest, however, the Ministers of nothing you have put to foreign affairs have represented nothing and have not built anything in the Mediterranean, but they have only kept their eyes on the masters of the ECB and Europe. Well, I tell you, these victims shouldn't let you sleep today either! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u50	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, I asked to speak because I would like to ask the presidency of the Senate to consider the possibility of convening a Conference of Leaders, so that a change in our timetable can be considered in order to speed up the start of the debate on the anti-corruption measure in this House. We have two parliamentary needs, both of which are of particular importance. We need the Commission to conclude its work regularly, and with all due consideration, so that the measure can arrive as fully as possible in this House, with all its investigation completed. At the same time, we need the House to start work, so that we can then quickly conclude it, so that Italy has an anti-corruption measure, which it particularly needs at the moment. Corruption in our country has become a phenomenon that undermines its stability and are, therefore, also fundamental legislative measures to combat it. I must stress that time cannot be an independent variable. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u51	Senator Zanda, I will promptly inform the President of the Senate of your request.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u54	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I rise in relation to President Zanda's request that the Group of Forza Italia shares the urgency and priority of the debate on the anti-corruption law, in order to intervene on a phenomenon that - alas - tires the economy and the fate of our country in an absolutely intolerable way. Beyond that, however, I would like to make the House and the Presidency aware of the decisions that will be taken at the possible Conference of the Leaders on the progress of the work. Last Monday amendments were tabled by the Government on the subject of fake in the budget. As required by the Rules of Procedure, a sub-emerging phase was opened with regard to these amendments and, yesterday, the vote began. With reference to an amendment by the Government, it was found that it referred to Article 131-a of the Rite Code: an article that did not appear to have not only entered into force but also published in the Official Journal. From there, a request was made by certain members of the Commission to reopen an amendment, limited to this amendment, in order to allow the submission of sub-amendments, once the text of Article 131-a has been known. The investigations, carried out particularly quickly by the Commission yesterday, made the Commission aware of the following. Madam President, I am sorry to draw your attention, but this is a very sensitive subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u55	You are right, but one thing is to call for the Conference of Leaders to be convened - and I have informed the President of this - another account is to open today an item that is not on the agenda. I still gave her the floor to be fair, and she knows it. I'm just asking you to allow us to continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u56	Madam President, I do not intend to open a debate on this matter, but to represent the situation from a procedural and regulatory point of view, to the extent that I believe it is useful for the decision that the Conference of Leaders will adopt. May I? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Not surprisingly, there are already other senators who intend to intervene. I pray everyone remains within the framework of the rules we know. Go ahead, Senator. There is no doubt, Madam President, and thank you. About 5 p.m. or 6 p.m. last night, it was learned that the abstract text published in the Official Journal of 18 March would be published today. Thus, for a form of advertising, it was possible to place the Official Journal on the online website. The sub-emendancy phase, open to all the senators of the Republic, therefore imposed the fixing of a deadline for the submission of sub-amendments for today's day, because, if this had not been done, Article 71 of the Constitution would have been violated, with a relapse of constitutional illegitimacy on a legislation as delicate as that of anti-corruption. At 11 a.m. today, therefore, the deadline for the submission of sub-amendments, which will be forwarded to the Budget Commission and, once the opinion has been delivered, the Justice Commission, which is convened for this purpose, will proceed to the vote. However, I would now like to represent the House and the Presidency that the fact that today has been officially published in the Official Journal the legislative decree on the particular nature of the matter does not amount to its entry into force. This means that, in the Commission, we will be faced with an amendment which has no regulatory scope, since Article 131 bis of the Criminal Code has not entered into force, although it has been published. This obviously raises problems in this respect, which can be dealt with in a certain way in the Commission, but which I think create major problems for the decisions that will be taken in this House. This, however, is a problem of the presidency of the Senate and not of the President of the Justice Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u59	CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, I always speak on the order of business. I would like to thank on behalf of the Group Mr Zanda, who has been able to see that he has woke up this morning and had a good coffee, because we have been waiting two years for him to arrive in this House. We thank him, therefore, kindly. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I agree with your request to convene the Conference of Leaders immediately and I will propose that we come to work on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, because that measure must come to the House. If the thing that President Palma tells us is true, it is because the Government has written an amendment that does not comply with the laws existing at this time in Italy. Senator Palma, however, accepted the Government's amendment, in which there was a material error. If the amendment has been accepted, but today we are told that Article 131- bis of the penal code does not exist, I would like to know if you read the things you write. So, if the government opposes itself, maybe the real reason is that the Grasso bill was fine and you wanted to destroy it, so you wouldn't reach the goal. Let us do one thing, then: let us tell the Government to withdraw that amendment, or at least its second part, in which we talk about Rule 131-a, and come to the House tomorrow morning. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u60	I inform the House that the President of the Senate, whom I informed of the request to convene the Conference of Leaders, has arranged for the meeting to take place after the votes on the constitutionality of the decree-law on popular banks and the questions referred to it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u63	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Madam President, what the Presidency has just said strengthens me in the need to speak in this House. The Presidency's decision, which stems from the necessary and mandatory prerogative to direct and coordinate the work of the House, at the head of the President, makes it clear that President Zanda's request is absolutely necessary and appropriate. This has a great meaning. President Zanda, in fact, could have made this request not in this Chamber, but with a simple phone call, so as to urge the President to what the President immediately considered a necessity. But, if President Zanda has done so, he has revered his ancient experience, which has seen him thus begin his public presence in our nation. Communication is of great importance. So what you did by amending President Palma's behavior (in the sense that President Palma might not have intervened for a request made by President Zanda) did not mean anything, because what President Zanda has done has a meaning, not on the organization of the work, but political. Then, on the political significance of the leaders, if you will allow me, they have not only the possibility, but also the duty to intervene. The political point is that the Government has an internal contradiction on this measure, which arose not already in the last week, given that it was even more evident in it, because on Tuesday the Government submitted a large-scale amendment. This internal difficulty dates back to the beginning of the year, because the timing of this measure - as we remember - was called for by the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement as early as the beginning of January. And at the beginning of January - she was also present at the Conference of the Leaders, Madam President - we understood, from the stuttering of the Government, that there was some problem. Now, what is a government problem cannot be poured into the organization of the work. The government should be clear within it and should tell us what it wants to do, also because, if it wanted, it could have tabled the amendment not in the Commission, but in this House, as it has done so many times, putting us in front of the fact it has done, as it has always done. Why doesn't he put us in front of the accomplished fact? Because the government doesn't know what to do. Then the government first communicates it to us and the better it is, not only for the work of the House, but for the good of the nation. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u64	We greet the students and students of the State Science High School "Amedeo Avogadro" in Biella. Welcome and welcome to the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u67	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Madam President, it is clear to everyone that the Group to which I belong has always insisted that the anti-corruption bill be carried out well and quickly. We also insisted that it be included in the calendar over and over again. However, I would also like to express to everyone the concern that we are now building a law that is clearly considered a particularly sensitive node, because - whatever we say - we have been working for two years and for two years this bill has been proposed, proposed and subjected to a path of truly complex obstacles. The main concern is that a text that is clear and usable will eventually come to an end. The difficulty created by the fact that the Government has included such a reference in this amendment is objective. We call for this to be dealt with with very carefully and supervised by the Presidency: we would never want to see a particular change to the fake in the budget that should not only prove ineffective, but also open up a dispute that we cannot afford at this time. [[Applause from Senator Carraro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u70	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, I understand that at this time of extreme difficulty in Italian politics it is necessary to give signals and to be as populist as possible. I think, however, that, after this measure has been in the offices for more than seven hundred days - and I would like to stress this - without being treated by anyone, that is forgotten by almost all of Italian politics, we cannot come to this House today to tell us that we must speed up, after the Conference of the Leaders of a few days ago, where serious proposals had been announced by our colleagues, and also by the League. Mr President, let us leave the 'tends' to the President-in-Office of the Council outside this House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Here are serious people: people who work in Commissions, as they have done in the last hours and these days. There are senators who work for the good of the nation; senators who, in the matter of corruption, have clear ideas and know very well what to do. If populism is to be done to ensure that the Democratic Party, after what has happened in recent days, puts its hat in the public's eyes to be against corruption, after for seven hundred days you didn't give a damn about it, I'm not in it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Paglini]] Today we are dealing with the provision on popular banks. Tuesday you will put your trust in this decree-law and, in the afternoon, we can safely deal with the bill on corruption. It will not be two more days to turn Italy into a total chaos: those who corrupt and those who are collusion are today as in two days' time, regardless of whether this bill goes to the Chamber or not. We are willing to reason, to speed up as much as possible. If it is necessary to come Saturday and Sunday, we come; if it is necessary to come to Easter, we do so. We were willing to work in August for the whims of the President-in-Office of the Council. Let us, however, be serious people, President. For once, when decisions are taken at the Conference of the Leaders, if they are, because otherwise, unfortunately, those who vote on the calendar are not serious, if after two days they come here to propose something different. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Rizzotti and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u73	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I understand the situation in which the Government and its majority are located, because nobody escapes the combined arrangement - this word is so fashionable - of President Renzi's silence on the Lupi affair, embarrassing, on the one hand, with the discussion of the anti-corruption bill, on the other. You, Mr President, have attended all the Conferences of the Leaders and you know perfectly well that an embarrassing ballet has been going on for months on this matter: the bill has been in the Commission where it has been working and then it has been stopped, because the Government had announced the presentation of its own text, which we have been waiting for several weeks. We cannot now come to this House to make such demands. On the other hand, I am sorry because President Zanda does not usually go along with pure propaganda. He could make his request by calling the other group leaders, as he always did. Having so done, this request has the sole purpose of trying to give an external message, given the situation that is before everyone's eyes, as well as the embarrassing silence of President Renzi on the Lupi affair and the delays accumulated on the bill anti-corruption. We voted on the timetable, among other things in this House, once again, the other day. For God's sake, as far as we're concerned, we can work this afternoon, Friday and whenever you want. However, for weeks now the resistance put in place by the majority and the government to carry out this bill has been going on. This morning, however, President Zanda wakes up and suddenly decides that, within a few minutes, problems can be solved. We are always willing to make sure that it is done quickly, but we are no longer willing to tolerate in this House attitudes that serve only propaganda and demagogy when the facts are others. We had to get up in this House - and I also say this to the President of the Senate - when the number of days and hours appeared on Sky and in the newspapers as if it were the responsibility of this House for the fact that the anti-corruption bill has been waiting for 700 days. It is not the responsibility of this whole House: it is the responsibility of the majority alone and of the government alone. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u74	The next item is the resolution on the opinion of the 1st standing Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, on the existence of the conditions of necessity and urgency required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, for draft law No 1813: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No. 3 of 24 January 2015 on urgent measures for the banking system and investments" is already approved by the Chamber of Deputies. At its meeting on 17 March the first standing Commission gave a favourable opinion on the existence of these conditions and requirements. Subsequently, by the prescribed number of senators, the vote of the Assembly was requested on that opinion. I am asking the extensor of the opinion, Senator Migliavacca, if he intends to intervene. Mr MIGLIAVACCA, draftsman of the opinion. Mr President, I am speaking only to confirm the opinion in favour of meeting the requirements of necessity and urgency. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would remind you that you will be able to speak no more than one representative per Group for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u77	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, we have already had the opportunity, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to explain in detail why we believe that there are no constitutional requirements for this decree-law. We believe that this decree-law - it is not the only one because we are now used to it, but in particular - is in clear and total contrast with Article 77 of the Constitution. We believe that, in this case, there are no constitutional conditions for the adoption of the decree-law, because we do not see the necessity and urgency. And the reasons are very clear and absolutely obvious and are found, moreover, also in the report that accompanies the same decree-law. First of all, I would like to say quite frankly that we are faced with the fact that this decree-law introduces a system reform. To introduce a system reform, it is certainly not the decree-law the most appropriate instrument. System reforms must have a path that the Constitution certainly does not trace in the possibility of using the decree-law. Among other things, the alleged urgency of the decree-law is contradicted by the time indicated for adaptation to the new provisions, which was established in eighteen months. Someone has to explain to me how there can be the conditions of urgency required to issue a decree-law, when the same provision provides eighteen months for adaptation to the new provisions. Not only that, there is an absolute indeterminateity of the effectiveness of the same prescription, which starts from the adoption of secondary implementing rules issued without any time constraint by the Bank of Italy. Therefore, we are talking about eighteen months and then of no kind of time constraint for the secondary rules issued by the Bank of Italy. Therefore, the key question of Article 77, namely the fact that there are conditions of necessity and urgency, is contradicted by the devices provided for in the decree. Another question which, in our opinion, is absolutely clear that there are no preconditions and that the decree-law is clearly affected by constitutional illegitimacy is the following. I would point out that a system reform is being introduced and, therefore, these are rules of order that cannot be conditioned by contingency. Not only that: in the explanatory statement to show the necessity and urgency of the reform, it is invoked that there are indications and European directives that force us to transform popular banks. We have discussed this for a long time in the Commission, including with the contribution of senators who had participated in the debate on the directives themselves, being MEPs at the time. It is clear, by reading the directives, that there is - in our view - no obligation or infringement procedure. Indeed, on the part of countries such as Germany, where the role of territorial and popular banks is very strong, the demand has been made for a particular consideration of the cooperative form in the banks themselves. Therefore, in drawing up the directives and also in relation to the freedom of movement and allocation of capital, to which the Government refers, the Commission, intervening on the filing of an infringement procedure opened in 2003 for suspected violation of Article 56 of the Treaty, concluded then that cooperative companies have a particular importance in the economy of the Member States where they have operated and continue to operate thanks to their social model, and that the right of such companies to expand and to resort to the market for the collection of capital is fully recognised. I quote these, which are the conclusions reached by the European Commission at the time, simply to say that the reasons given for trying to demonstrate the necessity and urgency of the measure, as required by Article 77, are not exactly represented, because the debate in Europe and the question of the application of the directives are much more complex. We will therefore be able, Madam President, during the debate on the preliminary constitutionality, to explain in an even more detailed way the constitutional defects present throughout the decree-law, in addition to those referred to in Article 77, but it is clear and clear that never as in this case there are no constitutional presuppositions of necessity and urgency provided for in Article 77 of the Constitution. To this we add that for the umpteenth time next Tuesday - already we all know - the question of trust will be raised on this decree-law; once again we introduce such a broad system reform, which will have very heavy repercussions on the territories, local economies and small and medium-sized enterprises, through an instrument, such as the decree-law (in our opinion spoiled by a total constitutional illegitimacy), and once again we resort to the question of trust. Madam President, for these reasons we do not believe that the constitutional requirements for this measure are met. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u80	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, colleagues and citizens, we are delighted in this exercise of debate, which we know will lead to nothing. The majority will go, as usual, like a caterpillar ahead with their own ideas and so the government. A short time ago, we heard someone criticising the Government because it had tabled an amendment to the Justice Commission referring to a paragraph of a measure that had not yet entered into force: I say this to make it clear where we stand. Let's remember that it is the same Government that in December last year issued a decree-law and published the corrective decree on the same day that the law of conversion was published, because the original text contained an error: it could not be done otherwise, because otherwise the decree-law would have expired. We're in these hands. We now consider the constitutional requirements. I would like to refer to the point made by the House's Committee on Constitutional Affairs: it is not the opinion of a single person, but it is the opinion of the whole Commission. I read it: Given that it is an organic discipline that has a delayed effect on the nature of the institutions (popular banks) and does not limit itself to correcting some serious and punctual distortions, the form of the decree-law in which it is contained does not appear to be the most reasonable and consistent with the very nature of the urgent decree as set out in Article 77 of the Constitution. The rapporteur, in his speech in the Commission, defines it as a reform: the word'reform' should already be regarded as an oxymoron in relation to the instrument of the urgent decree. But we also read, in the first article (related to the popular banks), the expression "in the first application" is practically referring to all popular banks; in fact, if you write "in the first application" from that moment, from the day after the entry into force of the decree-law, the new possible popular banks must already adapt to what it prescribes, so there is no need to define a concept of first application: obviously we talk about the existing popular banks, so all those that have those requirements. Then it continues: within eighteen months of the date of entry into force of the provisions issued by the Bank of Italy must adapt to the following: provisions issued by the Bank of Italy, according to the preceding paragraph, but which do not have a time limit within which they must be issued. We have, therefore, a decree-law that provides that the Bank of Italy will have to do something, perhaps, one day. After this measure by the Bank of Italy - and on this we could open the debate, but it is a question of the constitutional prejudices on the substance of the measure - only after, within eighteen months, the popular banks will have to adapt. You all understand that this is not an urgent rule: otherwise it would appear that within a month the banks have to adjust. Those are the rules. Obviously there is no such urgency: it is only a pretext to be able to approve a reform, with all the critical issues raised when this decree-law was issued, with references to the well-known events that closely concerned Minister Boschi, linked to the various popular banks. Perhaps the urgency was linked only to this: to the urgency of resolving internal issues, to be able to obtain direct economic advantages by issuing a decree-law. I would add that this decree-law was issued in the presence of a President of the Republic protempore. I remember, in fact, that it was signed by President Grasso on 24 January, in a situation, also this, a little'sui generis. We therefore have a decree-law that is not urgent, because it does not presuppose an immediate problem, which will apply within eighteen months after the directives of the Bank of Italy and which was issued during the pro-tempore presidency of President Grasso, perhaps in the fear that the successor - in the lottery of the appointment of the next President - might be a guillotiner of non-urgent and unnecessary decrees. For these reasons, for the umpteenth time we invite you to reason: not like the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has given this opinion ('is not the most reasonable'). I can't understand, even now, what it means "isn't the most reasonable": either it's reasonable or it's not. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There's no logic. To say that this provision is not really fair is not good. Here we are making laws, we are Parliament: either one thing is reasonable or it is not. That is why I call on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the next decree-law (because we already know what will happen since there are too many economic interests at stake), to pull up the back for once and to reject the decree-laws when they do not have the prerequisites of necessity and urgency. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u83	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, the Forza Italia Group also considers that there are no conditions of extraordinary necessity and urgency which, let us remember, are not a fantasy but are provided for in Article 77 of the Constitution. Others have already said, but it is right to point out, that the rules under our scrutiny have been in force for eighteen months, even the most important ones, and even 540 days for certain deadlines, so there really is no need and urgency. On the other hand, there is a problem with Articles 41, according to which private initiative is free, and 45 of the Constitution, which protects cooperation and ensures its character and purpose. These are cooperative banks, which are suddenly transformed into something else and who is inside is seeing a situation changed that is based on privateistic characters. Then we see the failure that can produce the decree-laws. There has been talk of insider trading and it is not exactly a question of journalistic gossip: these are reports that come precisely from the body responsible for monitoring this kind of practice, that is, from the President of CONSOB who spoke in his own seat, that is, during a hearing held in the other branch of Parliament. The President spoke of suspicious transactions with purchases made before 16 January and sales in the following week that provided profits for ten million euros. Let's forget the names, which were made, of those who did these operations. It is clear that this is an abuse of the use of the decree-law, but in addition the decree was foretold that on 20 January the Council of Ministers approved it, but the publication took place only on 24, so four very useful days have passed. In the markets, in fact, I know it from direct and personal experience, the second ones are also important. Imagine how much two or four days are, which is like saying two business days bank. Among other things, if the operations, as it turns out, have been carried out since January 16, it is clear that someone already had an idea about them before. In a sense we can talk about progress, because for the so-called unlock Italy for six weeks has been shot a text by characters who are on the judicial chronicles of these days before it was published in the Official Journal. We must say no to this kind of practice, no to regard respect for the Constitution as an old-fashioned thing to put behind us, no to interventions that present serious problems that risk putting in serious difficulty an entire system that is very important for small and medium-sized enterprises with justifications and pretexts such as those mentioned in the decree-law. I conclude by recalling the premise of the decree-law in which we read: "Received the extraordinary need and urgency of starting the process of adaptation to the banking system" - for the truth there was something else written, probably there was a change of pace - "to the European addresses." Then the EUR 8 billion threshold is introduced, which is not written in any of the European standards. Let us say, therefore, that there is a self-denial even in the very text of the decree-law which states that there is no trace of the presuppositions of necessity and urgency. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u84	We shall now proceed to the vote on the favourable opinion of the first standing Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of the conditions required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, with regard to Decree-Law No 3. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the favourable opinion expressed by the first standing Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of the conditions required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, with regard to Decree-Law No. 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u85	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1813 which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteurs, Senators Moscardelli and Scalia, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Moscardelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the provision for the conversion of this decree-law contains important rules in some areas, in particular Article 1 concerning the reform of popular banks. A subject that was at the heart of a debate that was also very involved and strong in the course of which several objections were raised regarding the choices made, the need to maintain a peculiarity that is represented by the popular banks, then objections were raised about the parameters chosen and so on. In fact, I believe this reform, which has long been awaited (the Bank of Italy itself had stressed its urgency several times since the issue has been on the table for years) is an important point and I believe that the choices made go in the right direction. We need to take account of the context in which this reform takes place; a context that has seen the global economic and financial crisis act in particular on the banking system, as well as in terms of its impact on the real economy and employment: this is a crisis that, starting from the banking and financial system, has seen a suffering, a difficulty, of the whole European and Italian banking system in coping with the recession and the crisis. There have been many steps forward, there has been timely action. In fact, our banking system has also highlighted a number of elements of difficulty that were initially assessed in a limited way: today we are thinking about a deteriorated part of the banking system and we are talking about deteriorated credits for about 180 billion euros. There has been an important process of capitalisation and strengthening of the capital of our banks and there has been a fundamental step at the level of European institutions. The crisis has therefore acted in the direction of strengthening the unity of the European Union and the most significant step has been taken, especially on the side of the banking union. From this point of view too, our system has managed to overcome the evaluation phase well (I am referring to the new control and supervisory system): we are therefore in a condition that has certainly brought us out of a difficulty, from a strong concern for the maintenance of our banking system. Why, then, is there intervention on the system of popular banks? We must bear in mind that our system of popular banks represents, in a way, an element of peculiarity and differentiation in relation to the European context, but not in a positive sense. We, in fact, refer to the popular banks automatically thinking that they are banks of proximity and of the territory, banks that help to differentiate the offer, especially in a very difficult framework of access to credit: we think, in short, that it is an element of positivity and wealth that helps our entrepreneurial fabric. Actually, this hasn't been true for a long time. Our popular banks, mainly the larger ones but their large part, have lost these connotations for their spread on the territory, for their size and for their ability to carry out their activity of credit intermediation on the national territory and no longer at the local level. When we talk about these characteristics, we must refer to a bank that has territorial limits and that provides the loan mainly within them; however, these characteristics are no longer the property of the popular banks, but they are in fact the cooperative credit banks, which are - these yes - a model that is closer to the European context of the sector. However, there is an important difference, that is, that their insistence limited from a territorial point of view and support to the credit of that territory, as well as the absence of a network context of this type of banks are factors that diminish the efficiency and the ability to intervene positively, as it happens in other countries. From this point of view, too, the measure ensures a better efficiency of governance and ability to access the capital market, i.e. it seeks to provide answers that go in that direction. On the other hand, we must remember that the system of popular banks presents some critical issues that are at the root of this reform. In the meantime, it must be said that the best quality assets of the major populars, equal to 11.6 percent, are slightly lower than that of the most significant Italian banks, but much lower than that of Europe already calculated in 2013. However this 11.6 percent was achieved in extremis, under an even incessant and strong action of the Bank of Italy to fall within the parameters of the comprehensive assessment. This system of popular banks presents critical elements ranging from impaired shares of 18.7 percent of total loans (two points above the average of the system), to a coverage rate with provisions in the balance sheet of 32 percent (10 points below the average of the system), to a low profitability, because the annualised return on capital and reserves was 2%, one point below the already lower of the system as a whole. It is clear, therefore, that the new European context is moving towards more and more stringent rules and more and more aimed at protecting savers, because the strengthening and capitalisation of the banking system also goes in the direction of safeguarding savings and it is not possible, from this point of view, to think of going back. It is not a type of bank that will favour access to credit: moreover, the measures taken at the European Central Bank level, the provision of liquidity and the measures taken today give the banks great access to credit at very low rates. There is a problem on the other side, that of demand, which is still low because of an economy that now finally begins, after many years, to give signs of recovery and therefore is on the investment side, the stimulus to the real economy that we must support this access to credit. On the other hand, with regard to the type related to the size of enterprises, the cooperative credit banks system is the reference point on which we can give a response at this level, linked to a small dimension that characterizes most of our production system. On the subject of popular banks, the legislation actually intervenes by stimulating, through this reform, a real push to aggregate, to capitalize, to strengthen and we must bear in mind that even the chosen limit of the eight billion euros of assets has its own logic, that is to support this reform first for the banks that have a larger asset: take into account that of the 37 banks, 10 (the so-called largest popular banks) are largely above the eight billion euros. For these, therefore, the drive to change, to improve governance, to make access to the capital market easier, to make investment easier is an element of positivity and not of change. The issue of contestability within the system of these banks is not a distorting element, but an element of efficiency, an element that helps and does not mean that the objective of the banks is to give credit and not to be contestable: they are two different profiles. It should be borne in mind, however, that among the popular banks which have less than EUR 8 billion (i.e. the remaining 27 banks), only one of them has an asset of little more than EUR 6 billion, while the other 26 have an asset of EUR 4 billion down and for these is maintained the system of limited liability cooperative shares, which is the current legal instrument. For these too, however, the possibility of access to capital markets and efficiency in governance are improved. It is clear, therefore, that the push for transformation for banks with an asset of more than eight billion - that is, the ten main popular banks - is now logical, it is in things, it is also in their national dimension and in the exercise of their activities on supranational markets, so that a whole series of objections and criticisms reached at this level of reform are not acceptable. I think, however, that the possibility of exceeding a whole range of limits and casts related to capitarian voting, to too strict limits on the holding of quotas, to the possibility therefore of improving the renewal of the governance of these banks, given their size, is an absolutely positive element. As far as the further elements of the decree that we are going to convert into law are concerned, I would point out some other rules and changes that pertain to this reform. In particular, Article 2 provides that banking institutions and payment service providers, in the event of a transfer of a payment account at the customer's request, shall adopt and conclude the relevant procedure within the time limits provided for, without charges and costs of portability at the customer's expense, even in the presence of a simultaneous transfer of financial instruments, payment orders and other services and instruments associated with it, and shall also place the obligation to compensate the customer, in accordance with criteria to be defined by a special ministerial decree. Thus Article 2-a identifies services which, in the case of a request for a cross-border transfer of a payment account or a current account to a bank or payment service provider of a Community Member State other than that in which the bank or payment service provider receiving the request is established, the latter is obliged to provide, within the time limits laid down in the European framework Article 3 - fully replaced by its original wording - in paragraph 1 gives Cassa Depositi e Prestiti the competence to carry out credit activities, which can carry out it directly or through SACE, or through a different subsidiary, in the latter case subject to the authorisation of the Banca d'Italia. In paragraph 2, the discipline of the so-called export bank is amended accordingly, allowing the use of funds coming from the so-called separate management of Cash deposits and loans for all operations aimed at supporting the internationalization of the enterprises, and not only those - as previously established - assisted by guarantee or insurance of SACE or other insurance institution whose bonds are guaranteed by the State. Article 5 amends the regulation of the optional facilitated tax regime - so-called patent box - introduced by the 2015 Stability Act. This is the exclusion from the formation of the total income of a percentage of the income deriving from the use and/or the transfer of works of ingenuity, industrial patents, trademarks functionally equivalent to patents, as well as from processes, formulas and information related to experiences acquired in the industrial, commercial or scientific fields legally protected. In particular, trademarks are now included in the intangible assets for which the tax benefit is recognised and the objective scope is extended. It also provides that the Italian Institute of Technology Foundation can establish or participate in innovative start-ups and other companies also with public and private subjects, Italian and foreign, operating in the fields functional to the achievement of its purpose, specifying that the Foundation can allocate to the realization of the same a quota up to a maximum of 10 percent of the annual allocation subject to authorization of the MIUR in agreement with the MEF. Article 6 amends the existing legislation on the exemption from withholding tax on interest and other income from medium- and long-term financing to companies, extending the above-mentioned exemption scheme to finance from all institutional investors established in countries included in the so-called white list, even if they are not subject to fiscal subjectivity, and subject to supervision in the States in which they are established, or regardless of their policy of using leverage for investments, as well as their membership of the EU territory. Thus Article 8 amends the mechanism of soft loans to small and medium-sized enterprises for investment in machinery, plant and industrial goods. Article 8-a aims to introduce some changes to the framework of the Central Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises. Mr Scalia, for the 10th Commission, will speak more widely about other important measures relating to the business system and research and innovation. However, there is an obligation to point out that here in the Senate we had to have the opportunity to make some improvements. However, the House has kept this provision for too long, essentially limiting our ability to make a contribution in terms of improving the text. The text, however, I repeat, contains an important and positive reform, which goes in the right direction, as it is now included in the European context of the capital market and of the entities entitled to intermediary credit, therefore of our banking system: this is an important and awaited reform, which I consider very positive. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u87	We greet the students and students of the Liceo Scientifico. Albert Einstein in Rimini: welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]] We also greet the honorary consul of Romania, Dr Maurizio Passerotti. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]] Finally, we greet Monsignor Colafati, of Lamezia Terme, who came to the Senate accompanied by a group of towns and citizens. Welcome to the Senate, too. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u88	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is my responsibility to report on the part of the measure which has only been marginally affected by the debate that has taken place over the last few months. The attention, also media, focused in fact on the topic of popular banks, while the other measures introduced by the decree-law that we are converting, aimed at allowing our country to fully grasp the challenges of innovation and growth and consistent with the action carried out so far by the Government, remained substantially obscured. Yesterday the President of the Council, speaking in this House, had the opportunity to highlight the five factors that can finally trigger economic recovery. For four out of five, these are conditions determined by the Brussels decisions of the last few months, the result of a change of paradigm which, it must be said, has been significantly favoured by the Italian Presidency. This is the Juncker investment plan, the communication on flexibility, the quantitative easing desired by the European Central Bank of Mario Draghi and, in particular, the latter, a more logical and economically sustainable relationship between the dollar and the euro. The fifth factor is the lowering of the price of oil, which obviously depends on reasons outside the action of Europe and our country. Well, it would be unforgivable for us if we did not put our country in a position to seize the opportunities that come from these factors. The small ones, but important signs that the economy and the trend of the occupation are highlighting in these days - like the expected return to the positive territory of the Gross Domestic Product in the first trimester of 2015 and the demand for access to the decontributions previewed from the law of stability for the new assumptions of 76.000 enterprises from 1 to 26 past February, reported to us from the president of the INPS Boeri - confirm us in the conviction of being on the right path. At the same time, however, they motivate us to an even deeper and punctual commitment, aimed at allowing our country to grasp and fully exploit the stimuli that come from the new phase of European economic policy, to consolidate the first - still weak - signs of recovery and return to growth in a stable and sustainable way. From this point of view, there is today's measure, which, in addition to reforming the system of popular banks (the subject of which Mr Moscardelli has already mentioned and on which, as I said, the general attention has been focused), introduces important measures to encourage investment in innovation, export credit, capitalization and restructuring of companies in crisis. With regard to the provisions falling within the competence of the 10a The Commission, which I am going to explain, introduces the definition of "small and medium-sized innovative enterprises" which will have access to some of the simplifications, facilitations and incentives currently reserved for innovative start-ups. The article also intervenes in the scope of the legislation on innovative start-ups, with the aim of extending the related discipline facilitated to further subjects. They are innovative small and medium-sized enterprises - in the text amended by the Chamber of Deputies - capital companies, formed also in cooperative form, employing less than 250 people, whose annual turnover does not exceed 50 million euros or whose annual balance sheet total does not exceed 43 million euros (these are the parameters set out in Recommendation 2003/71/EC for the identification of SMEs), meeting the requirements set out in the standard and having some innovative content. In particular, this latter condition applies in the presence of at least two of the following requirements: volume of research and development expenditure equal to or greater than 3% of the largest amount between cost and total value of production, excluding expenditure on the purchase and rental of real estate, but including those for the purchase of technology with high innovative content; personnel qualified in percentages, compared to the workforce, different depending on whether they are doctors or PhD students, or graduates with at least three years of experience certified research, or staff with a master's degree; ownership of at least one industrial right. The rule provides for the establishment of a special section within the register of enterprises to which innovative SMEs must be registered in order to be able to access the facilities and regulates the registration procedure in that section, indicating in particular the information to be contained in the application, as well as the frequency for updating the information (30 June of each year, since the Chamber of Deputies deleted the other deadline of 31 December). Paragraph 9 of Article 4 extends to innovative SMEs various favor provisions currently provided for by Decree-Law No 179 of 2012 for innovative start-ups. These provisions apply, as a result of the changes introduced by the Chamber of Deputies, only to innovative small and medium-sized enterprises made up less than seven years after their first commercial sale, in compliance with the conditions and limits laid down in Article 21 of EU Regulation No 651 of 2014. The Chamber of Deputies has also added a paragraph 9-a, which specifies that, for innovative small and medium-sized enterprises operating on the market for more than seven years since the first commercial sale, tax incentives apply if small and medium-sized enterprises themselves present a plan for the development of new products, services or processes in the sector concerned. Paragraph 10 also extends to innovative SMEs the rules on the collection of risk capital introduced for innovative start-ups, allowing it to be done through online portals (the so-called crowdfunding). In addition, action is taken on the single text of the provisions on financial intermediation, modifying the definition of "portal for raising capital for innovative start-ups" and integrating it with innovative SMEs. The portal is now an online platform whose exclusive aim is to facilitate the collection of venture capital by innovative start-ups, innovative SMEs and savings collective investment firms or other companies that invest mainly in innovative start-ups and/or innovative small and medium-sized enterprises. The measure also deals with legislation concerning innovative start-ups. In particular, paragraph 11 also extends its scope to companies resident in a Member State of the European Union or the European Economic Area, provided that they have a production site or branch in Italy. The House of Deputies then added additional rules extending the facilities provided for innovative start-ups. In particular, paragraph 11-b extends the requirement relating to the creation of the innovative start-up, increasing it to 60 months from the 48 previously foreseen, and extends to five years (before there were four) the period, following the entry in the special section of the register of enterprises, the exemption from the payment of stamp tax and secretary's rights and the payment of the annual fee due in favour of the chambers of commerce. As far as Article 5 is concerned, Mr Moscardelli has taken into account the changes concerning the patent box regime. It is up to me instead to deal briefly with paragraphs 2 and 3, completely replaced by the Chamber. The new paragraph 2 provides that the Italian Institute of Technology Foundation can constitute or participate in innovative start-ups and other companies also with public and private subjects, Italian and foreign, operating in the sectors functional to the achievement of its purpose. The new paragraph 3 provides that, in the case in which the aforementioned purposes are realized with public contributions, the foundation can allocate to the realization of the same a quota up to a maximum of 10 percent of the annual allocation, subject to authorization of the Ministry of the university and the research in agreement with the Ministry of the economy and the finances. Of particular importance is Article 7, which provides that the Government will promote the establishment of a public limited company for the capitalization and restructuring of companies based in Italy, whose capital will be entirely subscribed by institutional and professional investors. The aim is to restructure, support and rebalance the financial and capital structure of companies which, despite temporary capital or financial imbalances, are characterised by adequate industrial and market prospects. God knows how much support is needed in this phase of exit from the crisis to companies that have through the crisis, have sometimes been deeply touched but maintain the industrial prospects of the market. The Chamber of Deputies has made some modifications to paragraph 1: it eliminates the exclusive reference to industrial enterprises, among those for the revival of which the company must undertake initiatives; where the aims of the company are defined, it is specified that it must favor processes of consolidation not only industrial, but also occupational; between institutional and professional investors are included the social security institutions in minority share; it is expected that the term for the sale of the participants, that is, the transfer of the goods and relationships object of the single investment, decorates as soon as possible, after the overcoming of the situation of temporary imbalance and, in any case, within the period established by the statute. A period has also been inserted by the Chamber, with which the Ministry of Economic Development is expected to present an annual report to the Parliament on the activity of the company; then the object of the decree for the identification of the characteristics and the maximum share of cover of the guarantee, the criteria and the modalities of concession and execution of the guarantee itself and the obligations, towards the State, of the subjects who make use of the guarantee, inserting the reference to the rights of the subjects who do not make use of it. Under Article 7-a, the maximum guarantee limit that the State can lend for the debts that companies in extraordinary administration contract with credit institutions for the financing of current management and for the reactivation and completion of industrial plants, buildings and equipment is increased from 500 million to 550 million. Article 8 amends the mechanism of soft loans to small and medium-sized enterprises for investment in machinery, equipment, capital goods and new factory equipment for production (the so-called new Sabatini). The amendment consists of the optional and no longer mandatory use of the appropriate ceiling set up at the Deposit and Loan Fund by banks and financial intermediaries providing finance to SMEs for the above-mentioned investment purposes. The Chamber also introduced amendments to the framework of the Central Guarantee Fund for SMEs. In particular, the operation of the fund has been extended to insurance undertakings for financing activities other than the granting of guarantees, as well as to collective investment firms for savings; it has been limited to the sole direct guarantee the limitation of the granting of the guarantee of the fund to the financial operations of new concession or provision; rules have been introduced regarding the flexibility of the use of the resources of the fund and the right to return towards the final beneficiary and third parties guarantee providers of the sums paid as losses from the fund. Finally, Article 8 (b) aims to recognise priority of investigation and resolve requests for access to the Central Guarantee Fund for SMEs made by those companies which are suppliers of goods or services (i.e. creditors, for the same reasons) related to environmental rehabilitation or to the continuation of the activity of companies operating at least one industrial establishment of national strategic interest, subject to extraordinary administration (this is the issue that we have recently dealt with in this House also for Ilva's supplying companies). In order to further simplify access to the fund for those undertakings, it is specified that the Management Board of the Fund must decide within 30 days and, after that period, the request is deemed to have been accepted. Madam President, I believe I can conclude that this measure introduces appropriate measures not only to support, through financial support, thus facilitating its life, the emergence of innovative start-ups, but also the continuous development of innovative enterprises and the accompaniment beyond the crisis of those companies that have gone through the crisis itself, have been affected but maintain industrial market prospects. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u89	I communicate that a number of questions have been referred for a preliminary ruling. He asked for the intervention of Senator Council in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u90	Madam President, after a series of speeches on subjects that are not really pleasant, I would like to wish all the fathers present in this House, and not only, and the neo-papas, first of all.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u91	Congratulations to all my dads, too.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u92	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Representatives of the Government, President, Decree-Law 24 January 2015, n. 3, represents a bit the paradigm, I would say even the metaphor, of the government action of these last two years: a continuous decree of urgency in the most varied and heterogeneous subjects, interventions on structural interventions, few times contingents (almost always not urgent), no listening to society and social forces and never listen to the proposals of the opposition. If these decrees come from the Chamber of Deputies in the last few days available they become absolutely inemendable decrees and, therefore, the use of trust is indispensable. The repeated use of the decree-law has been censored several times by the appeals, not only of the opposition, but also of the Head of State and the numerous judgments of the Constitutional Court. The measure in question presents several critical profiles in relation to the respect of the constitutional profiles. The requirements of extraordinary necessity and urgency required by Article 77 of the Constitution are clearly ignored. The homogeneity of the subject has been clearly distorted, given the presence of rules on matters which would require treatment in separate measures. The decree-law, then, aims to reform a part of the national banking system, claiming, by the majority, the most varied reasons, but the reality is that the transformation of the popular banks into public limited companies could produce absolutely different effects from those indicated by the Government, putting at risk the financing to the enterprises and the families. The measure is therefore contrary to Articles 41, 45 and 47 of the Constitution. The doors were also opened to investments to foreigners, probably to public limited companies, to the detriment of small banks, in fact altering the rules of free competition. Nor was Article 3 to find room in this provision, as it includes rules of an orderly nature. Mr President, King Midas, who enjoyed turning everything he touched into gold, soon realized that his covetousness would no longer allow him to feed himself and begged Dionysus to take away that power. How long should we spend to realize that the power of business banks is starving this country? It's been eight years since Lehman Brothers failed. In these eight years all - I say all - have paid the high price of an economic crisis resulting from a perverse system of financial speculation based on the alchemy of generating money from money. With this measure, for the umpteenth time, you are encouraging that sick and bankrupt system. Not only with this decree-law are you violating the fundamental principles of the Constitutional Charter which enshrine in Articles 41, 45 and 47 the social usefulness of economic initiative, the social function of mutual cooperation without the aim of private speculation and saving in all its forms, but you contradict that natural and unwritten right to respect for human dignity that can never be conditioned by the economic becero interresse. Mr President, therefore, the Senators of the Lega Nord Group cannot believe the statements made by this Government if the facts it produces and the measures it proposes for the approval of this House are totally contrary to the declared and flagrant principles. For these reasons, in order to restore the principle of constitutional legality and the principle of accountability of the institutions, I propose, on behalf of the Lega Nord Group, not to proceed to the discussion of this bill, of the conversion of Decree-Law No. 3 of 24 January 2015, and to substantially revise its contents, eliminating all aspects of unconstitutionality highlighted in this proposal for a preliminary question. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u93	He asked Senator Bernini to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u94	Madam President, once again we are commenting on a decree-law issued by the government that should never have been born. We are at the twenty-ninth decree-law of the Venetian era; decree-laws that mostly present themselves, and this is their characteristic and their common denominator, lacking, at times totally, the necessary constitutional presuppositions, enshrined in Article 77 of the Constitution, of extraordinary necessity and urgency and therefore homogeneity. I thank the rapporteurs for the presentation of the contents of the measure. I thank the rapporteurs for trying to give this House an alibi: the alibi to vote on a measure once again spoiled by unconstitutionality. Inconstitutionality in the method: why a decree-law? I repeat once again: why a decree-law? Beyond the objective lack of the presuppositions of extraordinary necessity and urgency, we perceive only the subjective necessity of the haste of this Government that wants to regulate the form and governance of banking institutions that have existed for 150 years and with respect to whose regulations the drawers are full, not only of this branch of Parliament, but also of the Chamber of Deputies: projects, proposals and drafts of law that could, more appropriately and democratically, regulate them. Once again: why did you want to proceed authoritatively, unliberally and anti-democratically with a decree-law? Because the requirements of necessity and urgency have not been met, the previous speakers have said so. It's almost tautological. We have said this: for 150 years these credit institutions have been operating on the territory - and we will see with what elements of positivity - and now we are demanding, in eighteen months, to change their legal form, above all by prevaricating articles of the civil code that, for more than sixty years, protect the statutory autonomy not only of credit institutions, but of corporate formulas that we cannot forget. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] We're authoritatively prevaricating the civil code, too. Colleagues, we are exaggerating; rapporteurs, we are exaggerating! I repeat, I appreciate your efforts, but it is not possible for anyone in this House to notice - and here, ladies and gentlemen, forgive me, I make a "pornographic" allusion to the substance - that we are expropriating members of their right to reimbursement of the quota in the event of withdrawal. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Colleagues, this is an expropriation of nothing proletarian, but a confiscation by the Government of company shares that are on the market. Colleagues, we are talking about market, competition and growth. Indeed, the promise, the report of this measure, says: the necessity and urgency arise from the fact that Europe is asking us to do so. As our President-in-Office of the Council said he would go to Europe to beat his fists, I do not understand the reason for this attitude, but, ladies and gentlemen, Europe does not ask for it; the European Central Bank does not ask for it; the International Monetary Fund does not ask for it; the Commission does not ask for it. Merkel has done much better in this case than we have, because it has protected its Volksbanken and its Landesbanken, and it has established that we cannot go beyond 30 billion assets before exercising an authoritative banking assessment and protection. Banking supervision for strategic banking institutions that exercise credit and protect savings cannot be exercised below 30 billion. Why do we want to be more authoritarian than Merkel? Colleagues, why? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I'm not used to trial intentions, nor am I going to do it here and now. There is already CONSOB that is considering why, at a historical moment prior to the issuing of this decree, there have been alterations in the volumes and values of the market and the stock exchange. We will not be the ones to say why, who did it and on the basis of what interests of protection of friends or supposed friends of friends. However, we cannot help but wonder, ladies and gentlemen, whether Bank Etruria was assisted by the gypsy when it decided to make investments that led to its non-negligible capital gains. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, let us remember that we are considering constitutionality from the point of view of the method and constitutionality on the merits of a measure that certainly violates Article 3 of the Constitution with the unequal treatment of corporate formulas that are authoritatively imposed by a government that is no longer ashamed to do anything. Infringement of Article 41, freedom of economic undertaking. Infringement of Article 45, mutual purpose. Colleagues, these credit institutions, at a time of crisis, unlike all the others and in countertrend, have paid credit to the territories: one billion euros on the territories when all other credit institutions with credit crunch, the contraction of credit and an increasingly stingy credit merit, forced companies and individual consumers to make recessionary choices! [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups and Senator Endrizzi.]] Where is the growth, ladies and gentlemen, in taking away from these banks the possibility of operating on the territories, of having a more aware credit credit of the individual territorial realities? Where's the growth? Where is the implementation of growth? There is a violation of a mutual sense of true mutuality that prevails. 11:45 a.m. (BERNINI followed). And a colleague tells you that she comes from a region where he has abused himself in an inverbecado way of cooperativeism. Article 47 is violated. That's not how you collect savings. We are then making a real pity on the systematic violation by all of us of Articles 70 and 77 of the Constitution, as we have already said. The unevenness is in re ipsa. We are almost ashamed to make provisions that are not decree-laws and are not uneven. Article 81 is also violated. Colleagues, we promise money from separate managements of the Bank deposits and loans and from presumed funds not better identified, of which we do not know the consistency. Colleagues, once again we are making commitments that we do not know if they can be maintained, and in this case, once again, we do not only have ourselves as the contact points of our behaviour, but the Italians, businesses, consumers, the individual citizens who look at and expect serious behaviour from us. Speaking of homogeneity, I can only mention a few things. The provision for our examination is divided into two, with one hyate. There is a part that speaks inconspicuously of popular banks, making urgent and necessary what is not and therefore violating the Constitution in all respects that we have said, and a remaining absolutely uneven part that talks about everything, for example credit provision on the basis of intangible assets that are otherwise taxed depending on whether or not they are re-employed in the company. This could seem useful and profitable if it were not that for the sites materiae the placement is wrong. Why does the government have to do this, why can't we decide on the famous patent box already mentioned in the law of stability for patents and trademarks? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, M5S and LN-Aut.]] Why once again, ladies and gentlemen, do all the important things in this legislature have to pass over our heads? Couldn't we have a regurgitation of pride? Could we not think that it would be right for us to be concerned about these issues, especially if they impact on the lives of citizens? Colleagues, we have talked about method and merit and I would say that from my words you cannot escape that my Group considers this measure to be deeply illegitimate and deeply wrong in method and substance. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, M5S and LN-Aut.]] It is for this reason that we will vote in favour of this preliminary ruling so that there is no transition to the articles of this unfortunate last production of this Government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, M5S and LN-Aut. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u95	He asked Senator Endrizzi to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u96	Mr President, we believe that this measure is not constitutional. I wonder who will be interested in this issue: the citizens. I believe that the Constitution is also of economic value and I ask you if you have any idea if you know how to quantify it. What does the adherence of the legal order to shared values bring into our pockets? It leads to the organization of a life in which the behaviour of cooperation prevails over those of opposition, because one recognizes himself in a common good, in values that are clear, immutable, respected, protected by Parliament and not enslaved. It is like having a rudder that stands firm, straight, on the course to be held: not only do we avoid risks and dangers, but we also save energy, increase well-being and quality of life. The problem is that if we do not represent it, if we do not realize, for example, how much it costs us in terms of gross domestic product points, we lose our sense of the importance of this reality. A judicial system that works and that is fast could make us jump, alone, in terms of wealth and employment; or it could do so the fight against corruption. Instead, you have deserted the network of courts and are holding back on a measure that all Italy has been asking for for decades. We would not be like Germany, we would be better if we had full respect for the principles of the Constitution. [[Applause from Senator Donno]] Why doesn't this happen? Because if the Constitution has an economic value, it also means it has a price and many are willing to pay to be able to take control of the Constitution, of the legislative power. The government is doing this, with a Senate reform that will make it composed of nominations, one hundred percent, and with an electoral law that will also give three quarters of nominations to the House. Have we seen or not - or perhaps we forget - how a former senator exploded his assets while he was in control of political and legislative power? At this point, we must decide what we are playing on this measure and on the responsibility for the opinion that we now have to vote on. What are popular banks? They were born in 1800, with different peculiarities compared to other credit institutions. Each member cannot exceed 1% of the share capital and is voted with the principle of a head, a vote, so that it is not capital that prevails but ideas. It is no coincidence, then, if in times of contraction of the credit to the enterprises, in times when the crisis has been scientifically amplified by the policies of rigor, this banking system has guaranteed the holding of the credit - what little has happened - to the small and medium-sized enterprises, that they do not have saints in paradise in order to succeed anyway to have the investments guaranteed by a favorable credit. We're thinking of small businessmen today. Small entrepreneurs are also members of popular banks, which are usually cooperatives. These subjects are not protected by this provision: they are expropriated, as has been said, not only of the power to decide, but also of the power to recover their quotas; they are, in fact, put in front of an aut aut. This conflicts with many constitutional principles. Article 41 of the Constitution protects the freedom of the enterprise; freedom also from the power of taxation of the Government, which, moreover, takes place in violation of another rule, Article 117 of the Constitution, which gives the Regions the legislative matter of cooperation. It also conflicts with Article 3 of the Constitution, not only because it violates the principle of equality between citizens, but because this article leads to the principle of reasonableness of the law, and a law that does not achieve the results it aims to achieve is not reasonable. In fact, on the one hand, it proclaims that it wants to intervene in favour of credit to companies, on the other, it undermines the autonomy, freedom and praiseworthy action, so far carried out, by one of the cornerstones of the credit system. It then violates Article 45, which recognizes a social value to cooperation. This violation comes precisely from those who derive from a political tradition that considered this value a source of important principles at the basis of their political and government action. It also violates Article 47, thus entrusting the citizen himself to legal certainty. What happens, in fact, if by law we make obligatory the alteration of the statutes? It means that if someone joins an economic enterprise by becoming a partner, on the basis of a certain internal regulatory framework, which is then distorted without giving members the opportunity to express themselves, to be able to intervene properly, a disturbance is created. Personally, I do not think I have the doubts of Mr Bernini as to why we are doing all this. Perhaps the explanation lies precisely in the words I said: you want to touch something that works to make it work in a way that will benefit others. We have already demonstrated this. With the announcement of the Government, in fact, a speculative phenomenon was created immediately: Bank Etruria has increased its quotations by 65% in a few hours; and let alone the conflict of interests of Minister Boschi, that perhaps should be treated elsewhere with a motion of distrust apart. [[Applause from Senator Donno]] We are faced with a distortion of the market, of the social function of saving, and of large financial groups that have probably already done great business and are preparing to do so, because from the eventual dismemberment of these banks - we do not know the future outcome of this measure - these financial groups can easily proceed to their climbing and repulsing. Other banking groups will also be able to do so. We are going to create a catastrophic effect which cannot be reconciled with the statements made by the rapporteur, Mr Scalia, when he says that it is accepted that there are also measures in favour of credit to businesses because with these statements he is denouncing the uneven nature of this decree; a decree that we are now converting in a short time when everything is already happening, thus also violating the principle that gives Parliament legislative power. Instead, we are abdicating blamelessly. Then I close with an invitation to consciences, those that may not have a price. I also recall the warning given here by the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs about the urgent decree; I saw how he remained unheard. I hoped, after the President of the Republic pronounced, that something would change. Well, gentlemen, today with the vote each one of you is called to determine whether his conscience also has a price. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u97	Senator De Petris has the floor to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP4.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u98	Mr President, as I have already said a great deal, there is a clear contrast between the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 3 of 2015 and Article 77 of the Constitution; however, the provision for our attention presents some very broad and, in our opinion, very clear aspects of unconstitutionality. I return to one of the data that frankly struck us the most, namely the use of the decree-law to quickly initiate and impose a system reform. In addition, Mr President, they are surprised at the reasons given for the urgency of the conversion of the measure. It was said, that there would be the possibility of failure of these popular banks. Now, of the two: either the Government has decided to question the stress tests that almost all these banks have passed widely (and therefore it is declaring to us that those results are not reliable), or the Government, in motivating the urgency of the decree-law saying that its conversion is absolutely necessary for the failure of the credit institutions involved, knows to lie. This in our view affects the whole operation itself and, having also used it to justify its necessity and urgency, is in clear contrast to Article 77 of the Constitution. However, there are other aspects that we should be discussing, but we will have little chance of that, because on Tuesday we will have confidence in the decree-law under consideration, so as usual we will be deprived of the possibility of having a more in-depth debate in this House, as well as that of amending the text. However, we are struck by the fact that there are very clearly aspects in violation of many articles of our Constitution. For example, the new rules introduced by Article 1, i.e. the limit of 8 billion assets imposed on popular banks, with their prohibitions and sanctions, conflict in our view with Articles 3, 41, 45 and 47 of the Constitution; moreover, the consequent measures to overcome this limit, in particular the obligation to transform a cooperative society into public limited companies, conflict with Articles 2, 3, 18, 41 and 45 of the Constitution. In particular, the limit of 8 billion to the assets of the popular banks does not appear reasonable and consistent with the recognition of cooperation, including in the field of credit, and with the constitutional direction that requires to promote its increase. Even if they are cooperatives with non-predominant mutuality, in the popular banks there is no lack of the mutual element. I quote, among other things, an authoritative opinion by the President emeritus of the Constitutional Court Mirabelli. According to constitutionalist Ainis from this comes an obligatory conclusion: Decree-Law No. 3 of 2015, in the part in which reform popular banks, is spoiled by unreasonableness, or rather by irrationality, in contrast to its own premises. The violation of Article 45 of the Constitution repents in our view that the provision, in requiring that it promotes and promotes the increase of mutual cooperation, does not allow a limit to be imposed on both the scope of the activities in which cooperation can operate and that it is related to the dimension it can take. In our view, cooperation is not an eccentric body in the Constitution, or the result of a low-level compromise, but rather a concrete and typical form, freely activated by the citizens, in order to achieve, in a specific area, that economic and social solidarity which constitutes an indispensable duty and whose fulfilment is connected with the enjoyment of the inviolable rights enshrined in Article 2 of the Constitution. Therefore, in our opinion, the violation of these articles of the Constitution is absolutely clear, just as it is equally clear the violation of the principle of substantive equality as set out in paragraph 2 of Article 3, which is satisfied by banking cooperation in the realization of economic democracy, because it allows the articulation and diffusion of economic power, as well as the exercise of freedom of association, which is also guaranteed by Article 18. The political problem behind this decree, however, is that the obligation to transform cooperative banks into spa will actually put this system under stress. In fact, it is the banks of the territories that in recent years have had the historical function of providing loans above all to a clientele linked to the small and medium-sized companies of the territory. The obligation of transformation into Spa, in our opinion, will therefore create a very serious problem, because it will not only allow the merger and therefore the creation of a more solid banking system, but will make it scalable, especially by foreign banks, these institutions, which are experiences that not only exist - I would like to remind you - in our country, but also in Germany, where they have been largely defended and strengthened. It will represent a very serious problem because once again it will call into question, above all, the possibility of credit to small and medium-sized enterprises, with the relative problem of credit that will open up at this time, with such a sudden and compulsory transformation. We are very concerned, Mr President, not only because constitutional violations are so obvious, but because this decree, which was obviously intended to protect some small, small and perhaps even well-known interests, will once again put into question and threaten the possibility of recovery of a sector such as small and medium-sized enterprises and family credit, which has been severely stressed in recent years. For this reason, we ask that the draft law No 1813 be not examined. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u99	I put to the vote the question referred to you for a number of reasons by Senator Council and other Senators (QP1), Senator Bernini and other Senators (QP2), Senator Bottici and other Senators (QP3), Senator De Petris and other Senators (QP4). It's not approved. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u100	The session is resumed. The Conference of Leaders decided by a majority that the sitting would be suspended to allow the Commission to continue its work on the draft law on corruption. The sitting will resume at 5.30 p.m. for the report on these measures. The deadline for tabling amendments is again set at 1 p.m. on Monday 23 March. For the rest, the timetable remains unchanged. AIROLA (M5S). Can't work tomorrow? It's hard, it's too hard. Instead, the electoral law can be framed at seven o'clock in the morning! Shame on you! CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, of course, the questions of constitutionality will not be raised today, otherwise I would not have time to prepare myself. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No. Today, only the report will be carried out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u101	The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.49 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u102	I communicate that, on 18 March 2015, the following bill was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister of the Interior (Conversion to Law of Decree-Law No 27 of 17 March 2015) laying down urgent provisions for the simultaneous conduct of regional and administrative elections (1818).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u103	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 19, 657, 711, 810, 846, 847, 851 and 868, in the unified text proposed by the Commission. The rapporteur, Senator D'Ascola, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u104	Mr President, the current draft law consists essentially of two parts. The first concerns crimes against public administration and a whole range of provisions related to punitive treatment of public officials' crimes against public administration. The second part focuses on the crimes of false social communications. As far as the first category of crime is concerned, it is expected that there will be a general tightening of sanctions, i.e. not only the main penalties but also the ancillary ones. In particular, there is intervention on the crime of corruption for the exercise of the functions of corruption by act contrary to the duties of the office, of corruption in judicial acts, of undue induction and of flawedness. From this point of view, the tightening of sanctions treatment has been extended by virtue of the need to harmonise and rebalance this treatment within the figures that make up the crimes of the public officials against the public administration because the tightening of sanctions, mainly focused on Article 319 of the Criminal Code (corruption for an act contrary to the duties of office) has determined the need for a more general penalty coordination aimed, precisely, at harmonizing the tightening of sanctions among the figures that make up the entire category. In order to give an easy example to the problem, once the sanctions on Article 319 were tightened, it seemed necessary to provide for an even more harsh penalty for the most serious - at least as the Commission considers - crime of corruption in judicial proceedings. As rapporteur, I would like to respond to a number of issues which have mainly been raised in the course of the proceedings before the Justice Commission, with a view to responding to a major objection raised by the oppositions. It has been said that the tightening of sanctions is not justified in relation to the objective of general prevention, i.e. the objective identified in the alleged decrease of facts concerning the crimes of public officials against the public administration in relation to the increase in sanctions. On this point it must be clear that even if there is no scientific rule aimed at identifying a clear relationship between the increase in sanctions and the deterrence in committing crimes of this kind, it is undoubtedly true that the justification of this harsher sanctioning treatment is identified on the side, we might say classic, of remuneration. In fact, the more disapproval for such crimes grows in society, the more the multi-offensive nature of such crimes is recorded. It is well known that crimes against public administration have harmful effects on, for example, the national economy, the international image of Italy, from which, of course, they also have economic consequences. As I said, the more offensive this nature is, the more justified an increase in sanctions with reference to the classic aspects of a penal system that is based on the remuneration principle, that is to say the increase in the damage is justified an increase in the sanctioning intervention. I must also say that there are not only measures of a repressive nature, but also measures to encourage the preventive side. This legislative strand includes the information requirements to determine coordination between the National Anti-corruption Authority, the Public Prosecutor of the Republic and the regional administrative courts, which obviously have the pulse of dysfunctional situations that can and must, for the Commission's belief, be referred to that Authority, which then has the task of coordinating preventive action in the field of anti-corruption. With the justified aim of knowing a greater share of the facts concerning crimes against the public administration, it is expected that cooperation in the context of a provision that usefully imposes the emphasis on the adverb "effectively" aimed at pointing out that the attenuante is recognized only to persons who have made a collaboration that has given a useful result for the investigations. From the asset point of view, Article 322-b provides for a plurality of capital punishment, which can be reported in more detail at the stage of the debate and the vote in this House. It is envisaged, for example, to repair the damage which corresponds to an entity equal to what is wrongly received, but to be paid for the benefit of the administration of belonging; in this provision we see not only a sanction for the infidelity of the official public and for the damage caused to the administration of belonging, but above all a sort of further deterrent function. It is emphasized that, whatever the ability to conceal the origin and profit of such crimes may be, however, that unjust advantage will be sanctioned by an obligation of reparation that corresponds exactly to the amount wrongly received. The sanctioning increases in the framework of the bill, as a result of amendments to be attributed to the Government, do not only concern the side that we could define as the original of the bill n. 19, i.e. the crimes of the public officials against the public administration, but also provide for rules, such as Article 416-a (Mafia-style association), against which it was intended to intervene with sanctions - and here the adverb has a meaning - further aggravating of an already substantial sanctioning treatment. Here, however, the argument for justification, in the sense of explaining, of course, why this decision approved by the Commission, lies in the ever-increasing seriousness of the associative phenomenon, as indeed controlled by recent and - we might say - unceasing news events. Then there is the side of false social communications. We could of course talk about this for hours and that is certainly not the task of the rapporteur, and no one has to worry about it. But there is a clear connection between the crimes against public administration and the crimes of false social communications, especially when they connect to the possibility of creating that black then functional to the payment of bribes. The discipline is however necessary, as regards its modification, for a whole series of objections that have already been taken over by the Constitutional Court with the well-known judgment of the year 2004, with which it is true that the constitutionality of the hypotheses referred to in Articles 2621 and 2622 has been saved as reworded by the 2002 reform, but it is also true that with that judgment all those aspects that have made of these two criminal rules incriminating of the cases that we could define as armored. And the past participle is to highlight the rarefaction as to the scope of standards built functionally to a very rare application, so rich were those provisions of components aimed, in fact, to make them poorly applied. In short, what were the basic choices for one verse of the bill and another of the Commission in the long phase of the elaboration of a text clearly complex and difficult, and above all what were the choices of the Government? In fact, if it is true the accusation of armor (I could repeat this term) addressed to the two provisions born with the 2002 reform, it is also true on the other hand that at the level of the opposing interests, especially at a time of serious economic and financial difficulties for the country, there was the need for a protection of the companies and therefore of the economic recovery, aimed, precisely, to determine a reduction of the risk of criminal interventions in sectors that, except cases proven to be forgeries, had to be considered protected. It was therefore a delicate game of balance and the need to respect them. On this point, the rapporteur, who is also the author of a text on the crime referred to in Article 2621 and the supplementary one referred to in Article 2622, has repeatedly insisted in the course of his work in the Commission on the fact that false crimes have a unified structure and the false in the budget is nothing more than a particular hypothesis of the manifestation of false crimes. In short, we had to conceive, while respecting these requirements, the reconstruction of a special, particular hypothesis of false that was, however, conceived in a unitary, rational and coordinated context with respect to its general discipline. The Commission believes that it can present to the attention and authority of this House a text that deals with these problems and that is, of course, built in the forms of so-called crimes of its own, i.e. the offences that are envisaged in the sense of assuming the typical subjective authority for certain particularly qualified persons. This is in the history of fake crimes in the budget, this is what happened before the Commission and it is clear that, regardless of the prediction of a typical author, the rule of Article 110 of the Criminal Code, which regulates the participation of several persons in the crime, makes these rules applicable to anyone who has been, however, competitor in the fact proper and typical of the person expressly evoked by the legislative provision. To say something very synthetic about the structure of the norm (I refer to Article 2621 but the same things could be said with reference to Article 2622), it is characterized by a component of a specific dole, characteristic of crimes that, regardless of a dangerous structure, are however possibly functional to offend property interests. So much so that there is a specific malice: "in order to achieve an unjust profit for oneself or for others." It is characterized by the fact that social information and communications cannot be any information, but only those typically provided for by law. This is in compliance with that principle of taxability and determination that marks the constitutional face of criminal indictment. The standard is then constructed in the double form of the action or omission perfectly equivalent: they either display or fail. And what do they have to expose or omit to expose? We are talking about: (i) material facts relevant (ii) material. This expression of the legislator may seem to be emphatic and characterized, essentially, by superficiality. One could say that the fact is inevitably material, and perhaps this objection may deserve a counter-objection. But it is said: "Remarkable" and the rapporteur allows himself to give a functional interpretation, being the term "relevant" aimed at guaranteeing the profile of offensiveness. We know that the offense is built in relation to the damage, as well as the danger. Therefore, a material fact is relevant when it is not an inappropriate fact to offend the legally protected interest, even if formally corresponding to the type. In this way, allowing the rapporteur to evoke a historical, traditional issue, which is part of the experience of every criminalist: the problem, dealt with repeatedly by the Constitutional Court, of the necessary offensiveness of conduct of criminal importance, to be determined even in the presence of their apparent correspondence to the type. Therefore, the legislator, through this formula (which to a distracted observer might seem emphatic, repetitive, characterized by superficiality), wants to emphasize that the inoffensive facts, evaluations, the facts that in essence are not even able to trigger the category of danger, are placed outside the scope of punishableness. The Commission (but even before the Government) has thought of an attenuating circumstance: the fact of a small amount punished with a penalty ranging from one to three years of imprisonment, unlike the typical hypothesis, punished with a penalty ranging from one to five years of imprisonment. This legislative choice is not a random choice. It plays a specific role (we could call it irreplaceable), because it links the crime referred to in Article 2621 to the problem of the tenuity of the fact and, therefore, to that cause of non-penalty. Here I use an atechnical, generalizing term, under which, historically, there are a whole series of phenomena characterized by non-penalty, but clearly diversified from each other. The cause of non-penalty is foreseen, as we know (and this will also be an issue that will be dealt with in the Chamber), and it was published in the Official Journal of the Republic just yesterday. The admissibility of this cause of non-perpetuality is, in essence, provided only for crimes punishable by a sentence of up to five years' imprisonment. Therefore, the sanctioning forecast and the direct effect of that article 2621-b - which the rapporteur has not yet said, but which he will speak of immediately - provides, in a way that we could say "special" (and I use this adjective to underline the connection of the cause of non-criminality of the tenuity of the fact with the specific matter of false social communications), whenever this fact of false social communications is characterized by the historical components of the tenuity of the fact, an assessment which, however, looks prevalently at the damage that has been done. We therefore have a complex discipline: Article 2621, in its dimension that we could say generalist; the mitigating circumstance of the small entity, as provided for in Article 2621-a; the additional forecast that all those facts which fall within the scope of the companies referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 1 of Royal Decree No 267 of 1942, (the so-called bankruptcy law), all the times in which those companies therefore fall within the quantitative limits referred to in points (a), (b) and (c) of paragraph 2 of Article 1 of the Royal Decree in question; and then, this special hypothesis of tenuity of the fact, all the times in which for the precise fact, since Article 2621 - hence of companies not allowed to a regulated market: this is the discrimination and the line of separation between Articles 2621 and 2622 - this fact seems particularly tenuous, with that special forecast of tenuity which requires the judge a particular and more careful assessment, with reference to the components of the damage that already characterize precisely that special tenuity referred to in Article 131- bis of our penal code. I repeat: the latter is a rule which has not yet entered into force, but which is in force in our legal system, because it is published in yesterday's Official Journal. Well: there is little left to say, with reference to Article 262 because, when I allowed myself to explain the structure of the crime referred to in Article 2621, I said that it is essentially comparable to that referred to in Article 2622. Therefore, if I were to illustrate this second structure of the fact, I would only repeat what I have already said with reference to the figure of 2621. I have said, however, that the differential element is the historical one: in short, as long as these are non-listed companies, with securities not disclosed and not admitted to a regulated market in Italy or in the European Union, or to situations deemed equivalent by the second paragraph of Article 2622, these are facts which can be taken on board in the scheme of Article 2621. On the other hand, when these facts relate to the much more serious events that connect to the companies that operate within regulated markets, that is to say that they are in those four situations considered equivalent by what we believe will be the future criminal law, therefore from the paragraph of Article 2622 then there is no doubt that the fact is more serious. In fact, not only the penalty as the greater index of disvalue is higher, because here we reach a maximum edittal of eight years, but the hypotheses provided for in Articles 2621-a and 2622-b - on which, convinced that I have long reported, I do not intend to delay further - are not even applicable precisely to the crime referred to in Article 2622. I close with a very widespread topic on the point. Article 2621 is characterized, as we have seen, by an area of non-perpetuality, which is in 2621-b, and by an attenuating one that renders the crime of very limited seriousness and that concerns the small facts, such as the facts that take place in the context of societies that are not subject to the agreed preventive, nor to failure. In short, it seemed rational to us that, if these companies cannot be subject to competitive procedures, obviously they deserved favorable treatment also on the complementary and related side of criminal treatment, therefore being of course a treatment different from that of a bankruptcy nature, but that still must take into account the favorable assessments that the legislator, with the reform of the bankruptcy law, has considered to dedicate to these societies. Nevertheless, these favorable treatments are not foreseen and some could not even be foreseen. It cannot be considered structurally a minor fact or a fact that is not punishable by the tender nature of the offense that occurs in the context of companies that are of size and, essentially, the structure and functions of companies that are admitted to the regulatory market. With this last and perhaps repetitive consideration, I believe that I have fulfilled an obligation, albeit synthetic, of information, and of course considered myself available to the House to give any further and subsequent information that may be deemed necessary. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Compañera and Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u105	I greet the pupils, the pupils, the teachers and the companions of the State Institute of Higher Education (Galileo Galilei) in Florence, who have followed this interesting report, although quite technical, but very educational. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u106	In accordance with the timetable, I shall refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u107	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-413.ana.u108	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 24 March, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.58 p.m.
