ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 27 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.07).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I would warn you that, as you have already informed the Groups on the short routes, at 12 noon tomorrow, the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport will make a statement on the serious inconveniences that have recently occurred at Leonardo da Vinci International Airport in Fiumicino. Groups will be able to intervene for five minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u11	TONINI (PD). Mr President, as required by the Rules of Procedure, eight senators - including the majority leaders - propose that the agenda be reversed in accordance with Rule 56 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. It would be a matter of tackling today, immediately, the measure on the reform of the public administration in order to move after the conversion of the decree-law. Of course, the reason is quite intuitive: the complexity of the reform of the public administration is undoubtedly greater, as is the delicacy of the measure, which is absolutely central to the government's programme and essential to the preparation of the budgetary maneuver for next year, which will obviously be the qualifying point of our work to the autumn recovery. We therefore call for this reversal of the agenda, starting from the so-called reform Madia, and then arriving in the next few days at the conversion of the decree-law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u12	I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 56 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, one speaker against and one against may speak on the proposal to reverse the agenda for no more than ten minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u15	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I do not need ten minutes to point out to you that you, as President of the Senate, must reflect for a moment on the fact that a bill has priority over a decree-law, which sets out the criteria of necessity and urgency. Here we are completely demeaning Parliament: a bill goes beyond a decree-law that is necessary and urgent and that has therefore not been done because it presented the requirements of necessity and urgency, but to impose the dictatorship of the Government. Let us reflect before making these changes: the 5 Star Movement, that whatever you say, it is collaborative, it does not get against them, we would miss it; but here we carry out a bill with respect to a decree-law, it being understood that, according to the same article of the Regulation, I remember that later we will have to examine the bill on civil unions. I therefore ask Senator Tonini if the PD is then available, according to the same article of the Rules of Procedure, to change tomorrow's agenda to anticipate the handling of the draft law on civil unions compared to the decree-law in bankruptcy matters. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Is Senator Tonini available or should he ask Schifani and the whole NCD Group? The 5 Star Movement Group is therefore certainly opposed to this reversal of the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u16	I note that a senator has spoken against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u19	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would simply like to explain to the Senator who has just spoken that the reasons he has put forward are precisely to support Senator Tonini's proposal, because, if there were a dictatorship of the Government, if anything, it would manifest itself by decree-laws, certainly not by a bill, which is the prerogative of Parliament. I therefore thank you for the reasons for your support. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group. Senator Castaldi points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u20	Senator Castaldi, there's no response on this, you've already spoken. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to reverse the agenda. Verification of SANTANGELO (M5S) quorum. We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the proposal to reverse the agenda. I put to the vote the proposed reversal of the agenda, tabled by Senator Tonini. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u21	The next item is the debate on bill 1577-B, approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteur, Senator Pagliari, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u22	Mr President, I would like to point out to the House that I shall put the analytical report to the record with the precise indication of the changes made by the House, and I shall confine myself to a few reflections on the most important issues. The House, net of the changes resulting from the parliamentary protagonism end in itself that always weighs down because of both branches of Parliament the parliamentary shuttle, introduced new articles, changes and valid additions, to be recognized as a positive contribution. The new articles of greater scope are those relating to the accounting process and to the acceleration of the procedures in the matter of productive settlements and public works. With regard to the trial before the Court of Auditors, intended in particular, as is well known, to ascertain the erorial responsibility of public administrators, this broad and organic delegation, the result of a synthesis between experience, doctrine and evidence of case law, will allow to have a code of the process in consistency with the right tendency to give to all the jurisdictions covered by our Constitution a code or a single text. It is a delegation that I can be discussed and perfected, like any delegation, but which certainly deserves, for the assessment of the merits that I can make, to be approved. With regard to the rules on speeding up procedures in the field of production sites and public works, this is a delegation which wants to further narrow down the time-frame between the conception, approval and implementation of a production plant or a public work. It is a very controversial and old issue, which in this draft law comes back in many respects both when it comes to electronic procedures, when it comes to service conferences or silence-consent and more. The amendments tabled show some concern about this issue, taking the issue of speed as a damage to compliance with legality and legal certainty. I believe that the need addressed is, on the contrary, sacrosanct. I would like to say that a stronger intervention would have been desirable. In fact, speed is not irreconcilable with respect for the law. In fact, experience leads to the fact that, on the contrary, a fair speed is an antidote to corruption, and this does not forget, apart from certain Byzantineisms scattered in art several times in our legislation, that laws are not the cause before slowness. Unfortunately, this is created and determined thanks to a often unhealthy synergy between administrative, political and business systems. This is the mechanism that must be countered by measures that lead to substitute powers and other accelerations of productive investment processes. [[Brusio.]] Sorry, I wish there was a little less rumble in this House. The individual changes or additions did not upset the overall bill, which remains in its structure the one launched in April by this Senate, which today is called to give the definitive seal of law to this draft surely shaped by Parliament, in constant and constructive dialogue with the Government. This virtuous circuit, also favored by a confrontation not conditioned by insoluble contrasts of merit or prejudice, allows to conclude the process of this reform without the vote of confidence. It is an even more positive enterprise considering the quantity, complexity of the subjects and the mass of interests affected, as well as the potential innovative scope of the reform. The risk that everything changes because nothing changes in Italy always remains very high, but if the legislative decrees and implementation will not betray the expectations the changes determined by this bill will be really remarkable. In the absence of the reform of Law No 241 of 7 August 1990, and the regulation of controls, as well as the aggression of the subject of legislative technique, one cannot fail to note that the heading of the draft law should be changed. This draft law has assumed in part, but no less significant, the characteristics of a measure relating not to reorganisation but to reform of the public administration. The digitisation of procedures, the silent assent, the service conference, the self-protection and the unique texts on local services and participating companies are all topics and measures designed to further change the face of public administration. The digitised process can result in a very profound change in the administrative activity itself, in the relationship between public administration and citizens and in the same substantial function as public personnel. What makes the scope of management and staff reform even more evident. How can we fail to see, from this point of view, the social and political importance of delegations on participating companies and local public services? When these delegations are implemented, it will radically change the way we operate and, above all, the way we participate in them. This is an order change of enormous importance, which will involve a change in the structure and action of public administrations, affecting the waste of public money and giving a picket to clientelism. It is a very deep-rooted clientelism, because on the system of the companies involved - it is the experience to tell us - so far they have not wanted to make decisive interventions, even if the legislation would allow them. Let me turn to the last reflection. The text that comes to this House bears the signs, not only of the necessary parliamentary confrontation, but also of the many resistances to change. The result, in the end, is also broadly positive for politics, which has sufficiently resisted pressure. However, the problem of resistance to change remains. The phenomenon we are witnessing in every area, albeit with different nuances, is that of the defence of the status quo, which is no longer attributable to the dichotomy between conservatives and reformers, but has its natural transversality, uniting all those who do not want reforms, i.e. new and different scenarios and situations, but want restyling, without substantially modifying the framework, the substantial balances and consolidated certainties. This opens up a negative space for rhetorical declamation of change and hopeless criticism of every reform. Everyone must accept the challenge of reform, leave behind selfishness and put themselves at stake, because the victory of reforms is not the victory of a part, but of the country. On the other hand, this reform of the reorganization of public administration, albeit perfectly, redesigns and protects important aspects of the right of citizenship. It does so by innovatory and cannot be otherwise. Today the protection of rights lies not in their declamation, but in their redefinition in the context of the changes that take place with the strong reference to the Constitution, but without prejudice. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u23	I communicate that a number of questions have been referred for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Malan to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u24	Mr President, I am trying to summarise here the broad reasons that we have set out in the written text. First of all, we are faced with an omnibus measure, a great cauldron in which everything that has to do with public administration is put together (the criterion of homogeneity is completely forgotten); everything that is public administration (that is, practically everything that the State does and that should be the subject of much of our legislative activity) is within the measure. On everything there is a delegation to the government, very often extremely vague. Therefore, there is no homogeneity but, above all, there is not what Article 76 of the Constitution requires for the exercise of the legislative delegation, starting from the defined objects - the provision contains the world universe and not defined objects - and by the principles, which are totally vague. Without going far, just look at Article 1 (b), where it says: "to redefine and simplify administrative procedures, in relation to the needs of speed, certainty of time and transparency towards citizens and businesses, through a discipline based on their digitisation (...)" We are therefore talking about redefining and simplifying: this means that we can do anything; we can enlarge the meshes or we can tighten them; we can further bureaucratise these rules or we can - perhaps - simplify them. It's all left to the government's arbitrariness. Then, when it arrives in Parliament, the Commission will be able to express its opinion, unless a simple consensus is already ordered by the majority, because in this case it will probably be ignored. This way of introducing the so-called criteria is used in general. Redefinition: what does redefining mean? It means to do it all over again. But does that seem possible? When a person wants to do restoration work in a building, he cannot write to the registry office and office of the municipality only that he wants to modernize his home: he must write specifying what he will do, otherwise he will not have permission. That's what we should do with the government. In this case, however, there is the possibility of doing anything at the will of the Government, and this also creates a considerable advantage, naturally unconstitutional (sin for this small detail), for the Government. Since the government has proved very good in giving titles to the provisions, but much less good in writing the texts, here we remain to the titles. "Good school": who wouldn't vote for a good school? But then there is the problem that a good school did not come out of the text. Or I'll take the example of jobs act : with a slightly maccheronic Englishman, it must be a law to increase jobs. Then it became an employment act, because since it came into force we have again reached the record of youth unemployment and absolute unemployment, because the text was not up to the title. With this measure there was the brilliant finding: you put only the titles, you write the title of an article and you ask the government to do a good job. Who would not want to redefine to simplify and make more suited to the expectations of citizens and to the criterion of transparency the laws on the whole world universe that is touched on in this bill. As you know, there is everything: from forestry to local government offices. Reorganization of the administration of the State: this is all so; it is all titles and the text will then do so for its own convenience, without the disturbance of having a Parliament where people elected by citizens can make proposals and, most importantly, do them in the light of the sun. On one point, we should know who voted yes, who voted no and who made the proposal. Instead, there will be a series of monsters of legislative decrees inside which there will be everything and no one will know who wrote it. Yes, of course, it's the government, but there will be office X, office Y, as we've heard many times. It will not be possible, in fact, to amend the individual points, so that everyone can do their utmost. This is ideal for those who govern, but it is not ideal for democracy, it is not ideal for the Constitution, much less it is ideal for citizens, who pay taxes, as known very high, to support public administration and they would have the right that their representatives could put their noses on how public administration is organized, since there is a whole procedure guaranteed by the Constitution to do so. That is why we ask that we do not continue with the discussion of this measure and that the Government come to us asking for yes and no on things defined and with precise criteria, as the Constitution requires. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u25	He asked Senator Stefani to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u26	Mr President, as a Group of the North Legacy, we too wanted to make a preliminary question of constitutionality. In this sense, we associate ourselves with some arguments that have already been reported by Senator Malan; more than one of us has serious doubts about the constitutionality of this measure. We believe that this bill is in stark contrast to Article 76 of the Constitution. In fact, let's remember that the exercise of the legislative function can never be delegated to the Government, except with the famous determination of the principles and the guiding criteria, for a limited time and for defined objects. Now, a brief reading of the measure is enough to show the very wide scope of the rules contained in it and, above all, the diversity of the areas on which action is to be taken. The articulated, as a whole, cannot but be regarded as dishomogeneous and disorganic. We believe that, precisely because of the complexity of the matter under consideration, the principles and guiding criteria underlying the various legislative decrees should not be recognized. These principles are so broad and so general that, indeed, we believe that there can be a real impossibility on the part of the Government to respect the law of delegation: it is difficult to respect the guiding principles, if they are not even recognized in the provision. As a simplification, there are many when it comes to the reordering of the discipline of local public services. However, the delegation criteria identified are respect for the principles of adequacy, subsidiarity and proportionality. These are definitions which, if they are not declined in concrete terms, remain mere statements. There is no guiding principle and criterion here, but merely a ratio or objective is being enunciated, which, indeed, is a fundamental principle of all administrative matters. Let me give another example, as far as public leadership is concerned. There is even a sort of precarious management here, in total contrast to the constitutional set-up provided for in Articles 97 and 98 of the Constitution. Last but not least - and we believe that this is very serious - this measure refers, as principles and guiding criteria, even to alternative options that can be decided by the Delegated Government itself. We believe that this is really important and particularly serious. In this sense, let us also remember the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which had pointed out that the free appreciation of the delegated legislator can never become a guiding principle or criterion, as regards the antipodies of bound legislation, such as, by definition, delegated legislation. For these reasons we believe - apart from the content of the measure, on which we can say well afterwards, and we have already said, when it came to examining this chamber some time ago - that from the point of view of constitutionality there are extreme difficulties, on this as well as on other measures which have unfortunately been examined in this House. Then we will find ourselves in the future with the decisions of the Constitutional Court that will come to dismantle measures, as has already happened, for example, in the case of pension treatment, and it will be discovered with surprise that the Constitutional Court has intervened on our legislative activity. Maybe we need to think about it a little bit further, when it's legal, whether we're doing something constitutional or not. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u27	He asked Senator De Petris to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP4. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u28	Mr President, it was absolutely necessary, not for a ritual fact, but for the absolute substance, to place before the Assembly a preliminary constitutionality on the draft law to reorganize the public administration, because in our opinion it is in open conflict in many parts with the principles laid down in Article 76, because it is characterized by inconsistencies and profiles of illegality precisely with respect to the criteria laid down in Article 76 of the Constitution as regards delegation. The delegations provided for therein are, in fact, generic and indeterminate and, therefore, of insufficient content in many parts to limit the discretion of the delegated legislator. In particular, the principle of limited time is not respected since, in almost all the articles, it is expected, in addition to the time necessary for the presentation of delegated decrees, also the possibility for the Government to issue further legislative decrees that are correct and complementary, in times not indicated. Moreover, every decree delegated, according to the text, requires three successive passages, as we know. With specific reference to Article 9 - for example - it is difficult to hypothesize the number of legislative decrees necessary for single roles, with three additional procedures and four months of time. With regard to the principle of the determination of guiding principles and criteria for defined objects, Articles 2, 5 and 8 contain provisions containing generic principles and criteria. Similarly, the criteria and guiding principles laid down in Articles 17 and 18 - to be integrated with those provided for in Article 16 - appear to be very broad and not easily delimitable. Hence a dangerous example of the marginalisation of the parliamentary legislator. The government project is also characterized in many parts by a strong hyper-enhancing trend, contrary to Article 5 of the Constitution, which defines our organisational model based on the wider administrative decentralisation in the implementation of services, based on a strong character of autonomy. We then come to the most difficult questions, from every point of view, both from the point of view of respect for Article 76, and from other constitutional points of view. In particular, paragraph 3 of Article 3 extends in a general way the mechanism of silence-acceptance also in the procedures in which it is foreseen to acquire absences, concerts or nothing precludes however called of administrations responsible for environmental protection, landscape-territorial, cultural goods and the health of citizens. Until now, paragraph 4 of Article 20 of Law No 241 of 1990 has excluded silence-consent for proceedings involving sensitive interests, in the constitutionally impeccable assumption, as repeatedly pointed out by the Constitutional Court, of a prevalence of public interest over that of private citizens in cases where interests of constitutional rank are involved, as in relation to the themes of cultural heritage and the environment, pursuant to Article 9 of the Constitution. In environmental matters, there is a fundamental principle which can be derived from a number of provisions, to be interpreted in a unified manner in the system, according to which the silence of the administration responsible for the environmental constraint cannot have the value of assent (cf. 26, 1996 and 440, 1997). In addition, Article 4 has been inserted in the Chamber, which provides for the enactment of a delegification regulation, which lays down rules for speeding up administrative procedures relating to important production sites, works of general interest or the start-up of entrepreneurial activities which the President of the Council of Ministers will be able to identify at his sole discretion. For these works and permissions all terms will be reduced to 50 percent. Moreover, the President or the Prefect delegated by him shall be conferred substitute powers which override the powers, both of the competent Ministers and of the territorial authorities, in clear violation of Article 95, second paragraph, of the Constitution relating to the individual liability of the acts of the Ministers and of Article 117, third paragraph, in the field of concurrent legislation. The forecast, moreover, contained in article 8, paragraph 1, letter a), of the absorption of men, means, experiences and abilities established in years of commitment in the defense of the environment, of the territory and of the agri-food safety and of the biodiversity of the Forest Body of the State, even if temperate from the term \ possible and modified widely by the Chamber, configures - ahinoi - the explicit will of the Government to achieve anyway a dismemberment of the Body, and consequently to the dispersion of energies, as well as valuable and indispensable experiences, without which would be lacking those fundamental functions and necessary for the respect of the principles enshrined in Article 9, in the broadest sense of the protection of the environment and the territory. Moreover, the dismemberment of the Body presents - in our opinion - profiles of serious criticality precisely for the ulterior delegation to the Government regarding the definitive organization of the Body itself. And again, in Article 8, redefining the powers of functions between the President of the Council, Ministers and Council of Ministers, forcing their centralization at the head of the President of the Council, in fact exasperating the spirit and the letter of the Constitutional Charter which, in Article 92, indicates the Council of Ministers as the highest body of government of the country, expressly indicating to the first paragraph that "The Government of the Republic is composed of the President of the Council and the Ministers, who together constitute the Council of Ministers." In addition, the delegated rules provide for the amendment of Law No 400 of 1988, which governs the activities of the Government and the organization of the Presidency of the Council. It is noted that the President of the Council is in a position of supremacy over the Ministers, but not of real hierarchical superiority. According to Article 95, the President of the Council of Ministers directs the general policy of the Government and is responsible for it. It maintains the unit of political and administrative direction, promoting and coordinating the activities of the Ministers. Finally, Article 11 extends the unique role also to the leaders of the Regions and local authorities, affecting the matter concerning the organization of the offices which the current Article 117 of the Constitution confers on the exclusive competence of the individual Regions. Nor does this legislation exclude the staff of regions with special status. The forecast contained in paragraph 1 (h) of Article 11, according to which the public manager without a post, after a certain period of placement in availability, would fall from the single role, constitutes a real dismissal. The absence of office cannot be attributed solely to the responsibility of the individual manager, but more often it is due to the prevailing will of the political authority on which it depends. The text in question thus allows too much interference of policy with public administration, contrary to the principle laid down in the second paragraph of Article 97, which ensures that public offices are organised in such a way as to ensure the smooth running and impartiality of the administration. The data and all the elements contained in the accompanying technical report do not give the necessary guarantee that there will be no new or higher public finance charges. Among other things, the effects on public finance resulting from more delegation appear to be evident. Then, in the article, there is the abolition of the figure of municipal secretaries, and this too - in our opinion - is in close coherence with the provision concerning managers and is in clear violation of Article 97, as regards the indication of the good performance and impartiality of the administration. For all these reasons, pursuant to Article 93, we ask that the draft law No 1577-B be not examined. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u29	He asked Senator Bonfrisco to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u30	Mr President, we have listened to important issues from the speeches that have preceded me and I do not want to go back to them. I merely add a few comments in relation to the text in our examination and to that Article 76 of the Constitution which provides for the exercise of the legislative function, which cannot be delegated to the Government except with the determination of guiding principles and criteria and only for limited time and defined objects. It requires the necessary precise content of the delegation law, in particular the indication of a limited period of time, of defined objects within which the delegation must be limited, as well as the determination of guiding principles and criteria. The logical-juridical precipitates of such contents are the impossibility of a transfer of the legislative function to the Government, through the indication of a certain and, in any case, uniquely determinable term, within which it is possible to exercise the delegated legislative power and, moreover, the necessary identification of the objects of the delegation, which prevents Parliament from having the executive legislate on any subject, clearly establishing the boundaries of the delegated matters. Not only that: in the field of the delegated objects, the Government cannot be free in its action, being rightly bound by the necessary indication of the principles and guiding criteria, which should be characterized as conformative norms of the subject subject of delegation and indicative of the modalities to be followed and the objectives to be achieved in the delegated legislation. This has the aim of ensuring that normative sources are set up, which is one of the main elements that characterize the form of government in our current constitutional system: until we change it, it is so. In this sense, in one of the many points identified by judgment No 171 of 2007, the Constitutional Court affirmed that this structure is linked to the protection of fundamental rights and values in States which, like ours, are inspired by the principle of separation, albeit mitigated, of the powers and subjugation of the administration and jurisdiction to the law, whose adoption is the responsibility of the governing bodies whose power derives directly from the people, principle expressed in the Constitutional Charter to Article 70, where it is expected that the legislative function is exercised collectively by the two chambers. In short, this is a government that has never received popular legitimacy and should therefore be more careful than others to obtain from Parliament the right delegations that it demands, in order to be able to operate and work, but with precise limits, given by the certainty of the times as well as the specific object of its delegation. In fact, if we all care about the functionality of the legislative power, even more at heart, we and the Italians, the functionality of the Executive, so that it is always in a position to legislate quickly and promptly, in the best possible way. Until now, however, the delegations we have voted in this Parliament have hardly ever responded to the constitutional principles required by the Constitutional Court, including by means of important and important expressions, on the fact that the object must be clearly identified and, above all, that time should be limited. After that time, if the Government has not been able to implement the delegation, it means that it does not deserve to receive it from Parliament. In the light of what I have said, it seems obvious that there are different profiles of constitutional illegitimacy of the text to be examined by the Senate. For example, articles containing the delegations for the modification of the famous Law No 241 of 1990, on the administrative procedure, and in particular Articles 17 and 18, relating respectively to matters of extraordinary importance, such as the reform of labour in the hands of the public administration and that of the company participations of the public administration, to be implemented on the basis of principles and criteria set out in Article 16, which appear, contrary to the provisions of the Constitutional Court's judgments, entirely generic and indefinite, as repeatedly highlighted in several judgments of the Court itself. I would remind you that the proper exercise of delegated power requires that the principles laid down by the delegated legislator should not only constitute the limit base for delegated rules, but also an instrument for interpreting their scope. How many times, moreover, we are obliged to exercise the function of correct interpretation of the norm. And I would say that, in the gigantic door of the act we are examining, we will have many opportunities of this kind. Finally, there is also a serious vulnus to the temporal limitation for the exercise of the delegation: in multiple provisions of the text under consideration, the Government is granted, for the drafting of the delegated decrees, a temporal period only apparently and in the first instance limited to twelve months, but subject to further and inaccurate corrective and supplementary interventions, starting from the indicated first expiry of twelve months and can be practiced substantially sine die, in the absence of any indication of the delegation on the point. Further profiles of constitutional illegitimacy are found in relation to Article 3, and not only. For this reason, I would like to move quickly to the conclusion by recalling a part of our dispute with regard to the constitutional profile, which I find particularly significant. I refer to Article 11, Mr President, which, in paragraph 1 (b), extends the unique role to the leaders of the regions. This forecast is clearly contrary to Article 117 of the Constitution, since it affects the organization of offices, reserved for the exclusive competence of the Regions. Similar considerations can be applied with respect to Article 11 (1) (b), n. 3, which even extends the unique role to the managers of local authorities, where the system outlined in Article 117 of the Constitution entrusts the relevant discipline to the Regions. Finally, it should be noted that, despite the provision in Article 23 of the draft law, containing the clause of invariance, there is no effective guarantee that there will be no new or higher public finance charges arising from the implementation of the delegation law and related delegated legislative decrees. It is foreseeable, in fact, and it is very easy that negative effects on public finance will arise, merely by way of example, from the implementation of Article 10 on the reorganization of the functions and financing of the chambers of commerce, from the new remuneration regime provided for in Article 11 (1) (i), for managers without a mandate, as well as from the establishment of the database in which to insert the curriculum vitae, the professional profile and the results of the evaluations for each manager of the roles. For these and many other reasons we ask the Senate not to proceed with the examination of the bill n. l577-B, because we consider it particularly full of profiles and constitutional reliefs that should make all of us reflect. In wanting to grant this Government such a broad set of delegations, we risk reading only newspaper headlines and then not seeing anything in fact and, if something happens, it will probably be a vulnus dangerous for savings and public accounts.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u31	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, during which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u34	LO MORO (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly to declare the PD Group's vote against the questions referred for a preliminary ruling and to keep track of some of the remarks which I consider to be particularly important and also respectful of the work that has been done in this House. The arguments offered to our assessment are many and some concern the merits of the measure. I shall refer only to two main subjects, one of which calls into question the homogeneity of the measure. This observation is easy to reject, because there is no need for uniformity: in the measure under consideration, the homogeneity of the argument is that it is a reform concerning public administration. We are in the presence of a very complex measure, which introduces an articulated and highly innovative legislation. And it will also be our concern to assess in the future the impact of this reform, which will not be mild. Therefore, a homogeneity in the strict sense, as is required - this yes - by the legislation regarding decree-laws, was not predictable and was not foreseen in a provision of this nature. However, the subject that I would like to remain with the acts concerns delegation. Reference has been made to Article 76 of the Constitution and it has been correctly recalled that the exercise of the legislative function cannot be delegated to the Government, except with determination of guiding principles and criteria and only for limited time and defined projects. It is true that there are a number of delegations in the measure under consideration. I seem to remember that there are at least 15. And, therefore, it is clear that the verification and criteria of Article 76 of the Constitution apply to all 15 delegations. I believe I can say that, for the long work done in the Commission and then in this House, this criterion has been respected. What I would like to say is that it is not just a matter of formal compliance with Article 76. This House, following the adoption of the amendments with the favourable opinion of the rapporteur and the government, has accepted for all delegations a principle that provides for a double passage in the Parliament of legislative decrees. This was not at all obvious and, if we are to be clear and honest to the end, in some cases, probably at some point, it was decided to have access for all delegations to this procedure, which is therefore strongly strengthened, which provides for a double passage in Parliament. And this amendment is at school, because in other measures we are also proposing and obtaining an enhanced procedure. To argue that even delegations assisted by a double passage in Parliament are lacking in the conditions of constitutionality seems unfair to me, not so much as to the government, but also to the House, which has approved amendments that are a guarantee for all of us. The substance of the reforms will be seen. Another point also needs to be dealt with. Above all, I had here before my eyes a point introduced by the Chamber: within the framework of the norm by which we have established that, within twelve months of the entry into force of the legislative decree, a new legislative decree with supplementary and corrective provisions can be produced, has even foreseen that it can be produced not one, but also more decrees. This means that we are fully aware that this is such an innovative measure that we must verify. And I assure you that I am also aware that, with respect to some measures, I have been highly critical (such as, for example, on the provision on municipal secretaries). Therefore, if it is necessary to act with supplementary and corrective measures, in order to be fair, this will have to be done on the basis of the results that will be achieved. It seems to me, therefore, that there are all the appropriate precautions, as well as constitutionality, for a reform that is truly of great impact and will revolutionize public administration. So, it is right to be innovative, but also cautious. [[Applause from Senators Fornaro and Padua.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u37	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the questions referred for a preliminary ruling by my group. First of all, I would like to refer to what President Casini has just pointed out, in the context of the vote on the reversal of the items on the agenda: by anticipating the work on the delegation law rather than on the conversion of the decree-law, we give more dignity to Parliament rather than to the Government. Defining this law as Parliament's fruit is, however, a little excessive, considering that it is a draft law of the Government that tells Parliament what it wants to be delegated to write the contents on. It's a loop that may not even be explained on the outside. In fact, I confess that when someone asks me how the delegation law works, I find it difficult to explain that it is the Government that writes the delegation for itself and that, usually, writes it as it already thought it would, leaving it blank to open a fan on many aspects. When the reform of the public administration - and the Minister can confirm this - arrived in the Commission, it was welcomed with some enthusiasm. We also immediately expressed the desire to cooperate in a proactive way, because it seemed to us the time to have to deal in depth with the public administration, the machine without which no law that we approve in these classrooms is applied. Let us remember that the public administration is that gear that links legislative production, the citizen and what is in the middle. So, it's something delicate and essential. It's the engine of this country. It is perhaps the way in which she was treated is a little coarse and left to the government's action on duty. I now come to the substance of the questions raised, with particular reference to the issue of undefined criteria. In many points we find the texts written in the following way. It is said that the Government must adopt the legislative decrees according to the following criteria and guiding principles and then it is found to define the criteria: that is, it delegates the Government to issue legislative decrees in which it must define the criteria, without even going into detail. Again, we are talking about defining the criteria - for example - for the optimal territorial organisation of local public services of economic importance: but in what direction? We are talking about the reorganization of the incompatibility system or something: but in what direction? Towards a more restrictive direction or widening the meshes? What is the governing criterion that the Government must follow? Today is this government, tomorrow maybe there will be another government. Perhaps, also thanks to the issue just mentioned by my colleague Mr Lo Moro, further corrective legislative decrees can be issued. The grain of all this provision is obviously the last point, the article that perhaps makes all the bill unconstitutional. It is the article in which the Government is delegated to repeal those laws that provided for delegations to the Government and that it itself - the current or the previous ones - has never implemented, giving it ample margin to decide which laws to repeal because considered no longer current. But topicality is a political choice, if one defines itself as a current theme rather than another, and certainly not as an objective choice. In addition, truly picturesque rules have been added to the House, such as those concerning the identification of provisions whose repeal would have an indirect effect on public finance. Well, what did you do after you identified them? It must only identify them as: repeal identified as (e) or as (f); but it does not say that a provision must be repealed because it falls within a given category, or it must not be because it falls within another category. These are just a few examples of the white delegations contained in the draft law under consideration. There is no question of homogeneity just because there is a regulatory requirement for the draft law to delegate it. It is perhaps a prescription of common sense because, when we deal with so many issues, we should start a thorough discussion on each of them. Gentlemen, the reorganization of the police functions is left as follows: "Reorganization of police functions" unless it is stated that the forestry police and the provincial police must be abolished a little everywhere. Is that the point of reorganizing the police function? Perhaps something more in detail should have been said. Another highly critical element, which undermines the draft law, is Article 20: "Reordering the procedure of judgments before the Court of Auditors": this is a matter I do not believe to be settled with two lines. Yet, it was included in the House in the last reading and the Senate - they probably thought it had already been abolished, but they have not yet dealt with the whole process - did not have the opportunity to make any intervention. We are in a position today to have an article 20 that reorders the whole process before the Court of Auditors written only by one House, while the other is forced by the times dictated by the Government. Today, in fact, the Senate could say something about Article 20. And yet, you can't, because by August 7, President Renzi has to tweet to say that they got this too. That, then, there is nothing to obtain, because it is legislative decrees. If this government follows the path of the governments that preceded it, it will have to wait for someone to give the sponge to abolish the delegated laws and probably will not see the light even the legislative decrees of this delegated law. Perhaps only one will see the light - as has already been announced - that will be done in September on participating companies and public services, which is perhaps what interests most. I believe that the essence of all this bill, except for some aspect, lies in that part left blank and around which there are more money, armchairs and interests. That will perhaps be the only part that will be implemented, because there may be an interest in putting in hand the participants and the public services, even in violation of what the referendums on public water have decided. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u38	I put to the vote the question referred, with several reasons, by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators (QP1), Senator Centinario and other senators (QP2), Senator Bonfrisco and other senators (QP3), and Senator De Petris and other senators (QP4). It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last April, during the first reading of this measure, I tried to highlight some critical issues that accompanied that text, such as the amalgamation of the State Forestry Corps to the other police forces, the exclusion of school leaders from the unique role set up by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, and the consideration of the approval of certain administrations responsible for the protection of health, artistic heritage and the environment, even if they did not send their will within the end of the work of the same conference. Despite the changes made by the House of Deputies, the problems just listed have remained unchanged in the text that came to the attention of the House today, in the haste to make it pass before an urgent decree-law that motivated the reversal of the agenda. This measure, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Renzi recently said at the press conference with Minister Madia, is the additional piece of a puzzle, along with the unlocking-Italy and pseudo-reforms of the school and Senate. Unlike what Mr. Renzi says, however, this puzzle does not seem assembled to improve the social and economic conditions of the country: the real objective that is highlighted, in fact, is that the Government intends to destroy the rights and democracy of the country. (17.07) (Following BLUNDO). And this is done with confusion and illogicality, which appear evident when it comes to observing that, with regard to the delegation concerning public management and the evaluation of the returns of all public offices - including the status of the school manager, who, because of the non-management nature of his role, has not been recognized the inclusion in the single role established by the Presidency of the Council - this decision contrasts with what is shamefully established in the pseudo-reform of the school, in which school managers are recognized as positions of a purely managerial and even managerial nature. Minister, please listen. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask Senator Corsini not to distract the Minister who has to listen to the speeches. BLUNDO (M5S). In addition to the power to choose one's own team of teachers, school managers are also given the opportunity to identify educational paths and to enhance the quality of the school as alternative to the traditional ones. It is clear, therefore, that the Government has voluntarily decided to weaken the public function of the school manager, making his specific character and his role as a good father of the family in the planning and carrying out of the educational-creative activities of his institute, deciding to transform him into a critical head of the company, constantly bound to a cold analysis of costs and benefits in the realization of his educational mission. At least give us some weight. It is not possible to make conflicting measures at this level. I hope that you will give us some clarity on these aspects. The status of the school manager, however, is not the only measure so unacceptable and incomprehensible. There is much more, as my colleague, Senator Crimi, has mentioned in the question. The condition of the Forest Guard is evident. We are faced with a suppression of the State Forestry Corps. Its amalgamation with the State Police undermines one of the most important instruments of control of the territory. And here too there is an incongruity. Now we are trying to include this body, at the suggestion of the Carabinieri, in their reality being more similar to their organization, especially as regards the locations. It is, however, the case that the Forest Guard has the similarity of territorial dislocation and also an advantage. I am referring to the fact that 80% of the premises have been assigned to the Forest Guard free of charge from the state property, while the Carabinieri have 80% of the homes for rent. So, there is certainly an advantage to this Body on this aspect. It still remains an incongruity because the Forest Guard Corps is quite different from the military organization of the Carabinieri's weapon. The choice to combine them is by no means the fairest, the most just and the most logical that the Italian State had to do in response to the scaling and reorganization (there were no 1,600 units in the organic plant of the Forest Corps). A fair and correct decision would have been to absorb the provincial police, having skills more similar to those of the Forest Guard than the assignments to be carried out by merging with the city police. The provincial police, in a voluntary way, could merge into the Forest Guard having a preparation and a study on the environment much more specific than what it takes to go and do the fines in the streets and to be at the service of the municipalities. Here we are moving absolutely inappropriately - I repeat: not adequate - and then the incompetent are us. The main work of the Forest Guard is prevention. (Minister Madia converses with Senator Cardinals.) Minister, I'm going back to asking you at least to be careful in this House about what we have to say. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Blundo, it's not the Minister's fault, but the senators are talking to you. Moreover, the Minister is probably also able to follow while someone speaks to her. Let us not underestimate his abilities. BLUNDO (M5S). Thank you for giving the minister the spelling. That is why there are the thirty natural reserves that were assigned to the care of the Forest Guard. The Forest Guard also deals with information, enters schools and informs citizens about prevention and to really protect these riches. I wonder how we can proceed with this amalgamation. We wanted to move this agenda. Tomorrow, however, the event does not move; however, there will be a great demonstration of the environmentalist and animalist world and of all the trade unions of the Forest Guard that will manifest. Above all, I hope and hope that a special law will be drawn up to review the entire police and security sector, because there is also the inconsistency of the regions with special status. We also need - and this can only be done with the revisiting of the whole sector - a real saving of expenditure and a real rationalization and not the one you want to sell with your conferences, seminars, meetings and press conferences of various kinds, which do not correspond to the reality of the measure and of what you have put your hand to. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u41	Madam President, it is emblematic that this measure has been brought forward and brought to the debate in this House by reversing the agenda. There can be many reasons for this, but we cannot fail to find a symmetry with the statements made by the President of the Council of Ministers just the other day in Japan: we will quickly close the measure, indeed we will immediately steer it down because the reforms of the public administration are among the ones we care most about. Obviously we must not make laws because of the "announcements" that chronically afflict the President of the Council of Ministers, but we must carry out the legislative activity according to the needs of the country and, therefore, focusing attention on the content of the measures. In fact, Madam President, if one thing is to be looked at, it is the content of the measure. This pseudo-reform will have no capacity to affect public administration except when implementing decrees are issued. In fact, this is what it is about: a great delegation that contains nothing, at present, except indications of principle and general lines, that the Government will then take all the time to go and decline according to the interests, even political-electoral, of the case. This is how far away there can be from the needs of the country. In fact, if it is easy to go to Japan and do the graded 10,000 kilometers away from the country, it would also be necessary for the President of the Council of Ministers to abandon every now and then the blue car and go among the people, perhaps leaving Rome to end up in the smallest town of Italy, so as to realize how a municipal administration is made. In fact, the serious doubt that comes to us, which is almost an absolute certainty, is that the person who today presides over the Council of Ministers was simply a tape cutter when he was mayor in Florence and, even more, when he was president of the Province of Florence. Otherwise, you should know that a reform affecting public administration frees the municipalities from the Stability Pact. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] These are the things that the municipalities ask of us: a reform that cannot ignore a rebalancing, with the standard costs, between one public administration and the other. We still live today in a country where there is a city like the Capital that has an out-of-control public administration and small municipalities where, starting with administrators to switch to employees, the same people play the role of manager of the technical office, head of municipal police, responsible for culture and education service and I do not know which other services. That's because they don't have the resources to deal with everything. These are the things we expected to see resolved within this measure: inequalities and inequalities within the country. Instead, we are talking about the abolition of the State Forestry Corps. Yes, because it is necessary to give public opinion a certainty: that the reforms of the President of the Council of Ministers Renzi have a serious impact on the waste of the State, going to smuggle the image of the forest, the forestry employees, those of which we have read on the chronicles of the newspapers in the past years as an example of waste, with the Forest Corps of the State, that is that precious service to protect the environment and above all of investigation regarding the eco-reactors. What will be the future of the State Forestry Corps? To be dispersed: not even to be incorporated within the State Police, but to be dispersed, allowing its members to be dispersed among Carabinieri, Police or other organizations of the State in which they will decide to go. This is as far away from what we needed. Yet, once again, the President of the Council of Ministers' "announcement" feeds on these nefariousnesses. It would have been enough a measure that would have put hand to the inefficiencies of the public management, starting from those of the capital, because from this provision there will be no clarification regarding the public participations, including the participations of the capital: still today no one has been able to describe the system of the participations and the Chinese boxes inside of which the waste of the public administration is hidden in Rome. We then have waste management from the third world, a security management within the city that leaves much to be desired; and I do not think about the safety given by the state bodies, but by the municipal ones: I will repeat it at every opportunity. It is shameful that the President of the Council of Ministers goes to Japan to say that those who come to this country must find a welcoming country: he sometimes tried to go to Termini station and see what abusive taxi drivers do with tourists! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] He tried to take a walk in any day between the Pantheon and any tourist resort within Rome doing the slalom among the abusive! Then he would realize what the reality of the facts means compared to what for him instead is a golden cloud (probably the same as Fuksas), a beautiful cloud within which to hide. These are incapacities of government that are instead passed as great capacity for renewal. Over the next few days, the mayors are working harder, said the President of the Council of Ministers the other day. But does he know what the mayor means in a municipality with 500, 1,000 or 2,000 inhabitants? It means voluntary service for citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Instead, go and see what is reported in the newspaper reports about the inability of the public administration to use the funds that the European Union makes available. According to today's article in the "Corriere della sera", about the 12 billion of the European Union to invest: "To complicate everything there are the constraints of public finance". We have said that these are the reforms that need to be made. The article continues: "If Molise, Puglia, Calabria and Campania take out all the co-financing necessary not to lose EU funds, they should commit 60% of the expenditure allowed to them in 2015 by the Internal Stability Pact and with the remaining 40% provide for all other expenses". Inefficiencies must be addressed, because our local administrations are not even able to use EU funds. I'm starting to close. The article concludes by recalling that the delay, once again, depends on the direction cabin. Two years ago the Letta Government established by decree the Agency for Territorial Cohesion; but, a year later, the appointment of the Director General was still to be done. And a year later, a few days ago, here is the call for the selection of 37 experts. It bitterly concludes the article: "Another useless body?" These are the reforms that we would need: removing unnecessary bodies. None of this is done, perhaps also because, within the Government, Minister Madia weighs much less than other Ministers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u42	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, the draft law under consideration will introduce major innovations in very different areas of public administration; I use the future not only because, of course, we will have to wait for publication in the Official Journal of the law to be promulgated, but also and above all because the real changes will depend on the numerous legislative decrees that the Government intends to prepare in the coming months or not. This is because the Government will still be free to exercise or not to exercise the numerous delegations that it will receive with this bill. This is already a controversial point, I would say procedural, in the reform of public administration. I wonder: why not propose directly, with a draft law of government initiative, the novelties that are intended to be introduced by asking instead for the delegation to Parliament? On the excess of delegation laws, after the most known excess of decree-laws, have recently expressed important commentators, with largely shared considerations. I am referring to Professor Ainis, who, from the pages of the Espresso, spoke - excuse me for repeating - negatively about this little transparent instrument for drafting the laws. In any case, here we are examining this text which contains so many novelties. In its vastness we go, citing only some examples, from the reorganization of the Armed Forces (including the possible amalgamation of the Forest Corps of the State) to the centrality of the English language (whose knowledge will be indispensable in public competitions), from the transparency in the waiting files in the sanitary structures to the judgments on the public leaders, from the "Freedom of information act Italian" (everyone will have the right to access, also via the web, to documents and data of the public administration) to the single booklet for the cars (finally will unite the PRA with the ACI or, at least, the data will be unique in a single book). Yet, despite the vastness of the novelties, they are completely absent - this is the painful part - really qualifying interventions in the fight against corruption, which is a scourge that afflicts Italy and in particular the public administration. I refer specifically to the 25 points indicated by the National Anti-Corruption Authority (NAAC) in the reporting act No 4 of 10 June 2015. In this official act of the DAC, directed to the Government and the Parliament, there is explicit reference to this draft law, so that the indications contained in it are incorporated. I read, in fact, what is stated in the act of the DAC already mentioned: It decides to approve the following proposals for amendment, correction and integration of the existing legislation on the inconferability and incompatibility of administrative tasks... to be sent to the Government and Parliament, also to allow the examination for the approval of the bill Act House 3098... (what we are talking about now). The 25 proposals mentioned in this document are in three areas: the inconferibility, incompatibility and supervisory powers, order and sanction of the DAC. Unfortunately, this transposition, although requested by the DAC, did not take place; personally I am trying, in this last Senate Act 1577-B, to introduce them with my amendment 7.2, which contains many of those 25 points proposed by the DAC. I promise to explain its contents later, but here I would like to stress its origin. I admit it: it is not flour from my sack, but it is in fact an amendment directly from the DAC. This was not enough in the Commission, because the amendment was rejected. However, I will say more, it is surprising for me that, although I have indicated clearly and punctually the legislative interventions that the DAC considers useful to fight corruption and while having explicitly requested its inclusion in this law delegation, the Government has not done so. No obligation on the government to bring them all back, of course - neither did I in my amendment, I only took a few - but did not one deserve to be taken back? Wasn't one of them acceptable? It is surprising that it is common to feel that DAC is the most entitled authority both in the fight against corruption and to understand its dynamics and therefore the most entitled to propose instruments of contrast. In short, these are the questions that I ask myself and which I propose to your reflection. In conclusion, this bill contains many delegations, but there is a great and serious absence, that is, the delegations required by the DAC for the definition and clarification of fundamental aspects in the context of the inconferability and incompatibility of tasks. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Bianco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u44	Madam President, my speech will be very brief on a very dense and very rich measure, which starts a process of reform of public administrations with the aim of improving in efficiency and effectiveness the services rendered to citizens, people and communities, simplifying procedures, harmonizing systems, even diversified, innovative relationships, profiles of responsibility, infrastructure and, above all, organizational and management cultures. It is a measure which, as we know, is at second reading in the Senate. The House's intervention, as the rapporteur has also said, has further extended the measure by number of delegations and subjects. My intention is to illustrate only a few aspects that concern particular areas, including health, within public administrations. I would therefore like to recall, first of all, the intervention to Article 1, paragraph 1, letter c), which gives priority to the funds for access to public financing for the implementation of the Italian strategy for ultra-wide band, infrastructure with ultra-wide band networks also in the health sector, as well as in the educational-scholastic and tourist sectors. I believe that this is a very strong integration, which certainly goes in the direction of starting that process of e-health, i.e. health on an electronic network, capable of producing quality and efficiency within health services. I then quote article 2, paragraph 2, letter n), in the matter of discipline of the conference of services and, in contrast, article 3, paragraph 1, paragraph 3, which raises from sixty to ninety days the deadline for the opinion on silence-consent between administrations. Certainly this intervention on this subject tends to make the role of public administrations in very sensitive decisions more effective and even more responsible, in the time restriction, in the service conference and in the expression of opinions. The health authorities themselves, as is logical, have been included in the ranks of these administrations, with a small concern, however, that I transfer to the Minister: it is okay to lighten up and make the times safe and secure, but we must be careful that this does not go to the detriment of a responsible choice on sensitive subjects, such as health, environment and culture, which preside over constitutionally protected rights. I also believe that it was appropriate to provide for this intervention on the subject of transparency, because I believe that the President of the Anti-Corruption Authority himself has pointed out that the excessive burden, the excessive standardisation of procedures and objects relating to the transparency of public administrations ultimately play against: what is too complex, too difficult and too standardized does not understand the differences. Without prejudice to the guiding principles of Law No 190 of 2012, therefore, the procedures, modalities and plans have been revised, even harmonizing them with the specific realities of the public administration, which are not all the same, but very different from each other. Coming then to the vexed question of the choice of directors-general, it seems to me that the solution found is a solution of balance, a transparent solution that clears the field from a whole series of procedures and acts that in recent years had been subject to major discussions. Let me just say that what is envisaged today in the revision of the government leadership is already foreseen in the National Health Service for at least fifteen years; I am referring to the single group of management, the time assignments, the evaluation, the obligation of continuing training. It is not bad, therefore, of these difficult times, to say that if it is to modernity that we look - and this measure certainly does - health, at least in its structure, is a modern sector of our public administrations. Two last thoughts. It is proposed to set up the single number for emergencies: it was now, because, as you know, an infringement procedure has been opened at European level; I have only a few doubts about the adequacy of resources and their distribution over time, also because, as we know what the startup costs, not the maintenance of the structure (it seems to me that the financing arrangements are a bit reversed). Finally, as far as the introduction of the consultation for disabled workers in the public sectors is concerned, it seems to me to be a complete instrument, with this mechanism of participation and transparency, of Law No 68 of 1999 which, as we know, is also experiencing difficult situations. [[Applause from Senator Rossi Gianluca]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u45	Senator Astorre is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with the fourth attempt to reform public administration in the last 20 years. A reform, this, whose watchword must be and is: "simplification." The objective of public administration reform is, in fact, to simplify a state that has become heavy due to the overlapping of rules and bad practices that have stratified over the years. The complexity that characterizes our institutions, the bureaucratic delays, the slowness in giving answers and above all certain answers, has profoundly negative consequences both in terms of anti-politics, with citizens increasingly distrusted towards the public administrations state and local, and in terms of the escape of the entrepreneurs who would like to act and invest, frightened by the biblical times of response and the uncertainties that often derive from it. It is therefore our duty, and the measure we are debating today certainly goes in this direction, to build a simpler state, closer to the citizens, in which it is clear who does what and how long. We must move forward in the direction of a deburocratisation of administrations, remove all the bureaucratic processes that make administrative processes cumbersome, streamline the system both to improve the daily lives of citizens and to facilitate economic development. Minister Madia said well, going to the heart of the provision: It is a reform designed to respond to 60 million citizens and never to a single sector. In fact, all the regulatory actions are aimed at citizens, even those that affect the organization of the management, because it is evident that if the engine of the public administration works efficiently, and giving the right space to the merit of everyone and to make every person go to the right place for what are its characteristics and strengths, the service to citizens arrives better. It is precisely in this regard that I would like to applaud, not on a case-by-case basis, undersecretary Rughetti, who followed both the House and the Senate, in the Commission, the procedure of the measure, which has been particularly complex, since the draft law entered into Parliament's examination until its final version, which I believe we will learn to vote tomorrow. On particularly sensitive issues, which we have dealt with together, we have been able to appreciate his competence, which derives from his previous activity. I am referring in particular to the knot of municipal secretaries, which has been seen with great concern by the management and the sector, and to the particularly sensitive one of the State Forestry Corps, but I believe that in these weeks we have been able to find a positive response for both sectors. It is precisely on the node of executives that I would like to spend one more word. Since the 1998 reform, directors have seen a gradual decline in power in favour of managers, to whom the rule gives great, if not total, management responsibilities. In the political sector, local and national, it remains the only function of direction and control, but it is then the politics that, at the time of the elections, is called to be judged by the popular vote, even for acts that, according to law, do not depend on his will. Anyone who has had experience as a local administrator or in the bodies of their representation knows what I mean. This measure has the positive aspect of focusing a lot on the merit and productivity of managers, who must have the responsibility to give quick and certain answers. From here too the revival of our country's economy passes, as well as trust in our administrations. The guidelines of this measure meet the criteria of simplification, merit, transparency, productivity, innovation and responsibility: fundamental objectives for public administration, from which the ransom and growth of our country passes. We must bring the public administration, in all its forms, from the local to the national, to the center of the country's life, to be driven by economic recovery. For example, I have a small personal experience: when I was regional councillor for public works, we financed the works for the realization of a ring road in a Municipality of the province of Rome in 2005, but it was inaugurated - among other things, by a different administration - in 2012; it took seven years to realize a ring road already financed and planned in the regulatory plan. I believe that there is too much time to respond to the needs and needs of citizens. That is why we need more effective rules, which regulate the decision-making and control processes, and we need to remove all those procedures that only slow down: when you slow down then there is grey and there can be unpositive temptations. The world goes at a speed at which our heavy state must absolutely adapt, becoming a modern structure capable of dialogue and interaction in a fast and human way, an organism that has the tools, resources, infrastructure and capabilities to fulfil its duty at the service of the citizen, the family and the enterprise. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u47	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the government, the reform of the public administration that we are about to approve does not convince us, not only because it gives the government a lot of delegations - about fifteen - but because it has a highly centralist approach, which seems to be exclusively based on the achievement of the objectives of rationalization of expenditure. Instead, we would have expected a much more forward-looking vision, based on the simplification of bureaucratic structures, greater accountability of local administrations and the application of the standard requirements criterion and its standard costs to the entire public administration sector, which is the positive legacy left by the federalism delegation law of 2009. Of course, this reform contains points that are also acceptable, such as the modification of the code of the digital administration, such as the reordering of the conference of services, in which the issue of the certainty of the times arises, there are simplifications; there is the institute of silence assent, introduced thanks to an amendment of the North League right here in the Senate at first reading. However, there are above all negative aspects: for example, with regard to the territorial offices of the Government, we would have liked that there had been a non-reorganizational approach, but of much other importance, namely the suppression of prefectures, which represent the architrave or, if we want, one of the most powerful architraves of the Italian bureaucratic system. For us, with this draft law delegation, an opportunity has been missed to suppress the prefectures, which Einaudi also wanted to eliminate in 1944 because he saw in the prefect the symbol of the centralizing organization of the Italian State. Moreover, precisely in these weeks and months we have a confirmation in this sense, because the prefects, bypassing the mayors (who are the authority recognized by the citizens), put on the territory, without the knowledge of the first citizens, of the presumed refugees against the will of the territory. We agree with the abolition of municipal secretaries, other figures who, in our opinion, have been a brake on local self-government, their legitimate aspiration and their reformative will. However, we absolutely do not agree with the provision for relocation, forcing local authorities to acquire them as managers. I mean, the city secretaries walk out the door and come back through the window. We do not like - and we repeat -, as part of the reorganization of the functions of environmental protection police, the amalgamation in other police force of the State Forestry Corps. Even if it is not written in the delegation, it seems that, apart from us of the North League, we want to identify in the Arm of the Carabinieri, which already has the ecological operating core (NOE), that is specialized departments in the protection of the environment, the future police force to which the Forest Corps will be merged. Of course, the Carabinieri have a territorial location and of the principals, like the Forest Corps of the State; in theory this can represent the best organizational model, but in practice it will be very difficult to implement this plan. Let us bear in mind that we are talking about two police forces whose employees to date have a diametrically opposite legal status: the Carabinieri are a police military force with general competence in the permanent service of public security, while on the other hand the State Forestry Corps is instead a civilised state police force. To date, no one has highlighted this aspect, which is the focus of the entire project and which once again highlights the over-archism and superficiality of this Government. We certainly want to avoid misunderstandings: we praise the Arm of the Carabinieri; we praise the men and women who militate in the Arm [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] And we reiterate that we have the greatest respect for them and for all the members of the weapon, but the central hub of this delicate situation is that militarizing men and women of a civilian police force is a very slippery road. Suffice it to say that, for example, in the State Forestry Corps there are roles not existing on the military planet but present, instead, in the State Police: the so-called technical roles that have qualifications as judicial police, limited to the functions exercised, but not those of public security. We stress that subjection and transition to military status represent a choice of life that involves different and higher sacrifices than those required to be part of another police force in civil or other state armed corps, even from the point of view of the external aspect. We believe that it cannot be asked suddenly, to those who have embraced a civil profession, even if they are of service within a body armed with the State, to accept a penalising change of status, becoming subject to all the regulations and laws that apply to the military. No, dear Minister Madia, in general we consider this reform of the public administration to be bad and ineffective; and if good morning is seen from the morning, we are fresh! We are thinking, for example, of the Delrio reform. Another reform that was to be epochal and that had to reform the Provinces and bodies of wide area and that, instead, is proving to be a failure on simplification and a failure on the reorganization of functions, and that will lead to the failure of the Provinces, that they no longer have resources to do maintenance and management of the schools, the roads and the protection of the environment. As is a failure also the proposal (which shows that you are unable) to transfer all provincial police forces to local authorities or municipalities. The system of public administration payment is a failure. Minister Madia, where did the promised liquidity for companies go? It was tens of billions of euros. What happened to the telematics platform? She had to certify the credits, and she failed. The bet to pay it all on September 21st, St. Matthew, otherwise you would have to walk on Mount Senario, is therefore lost. Unless Prime Minister Renzi wanted to indicate 21 September, not 2014, not 2015, but even 2016 or 2017. Today "Il Giornale" attests that public administration payments in Italy on average exceed one hundred and ten days compared to the European average. But not all entities are the same. I would like to remind you that the Lombardy region pays 17 days and 50 days for health care providers. And those public administration payment criteria included in Decree No 66 to take account of the cuts to institutions have been shamefully removed in the law of stability to return to the practice of the famous linear cuts. No, Madam President, no, Minister Madia, this is not happening. Finally, I make a joke to Prime Minister Renzi who from Tokyo has allowed himself to speak unacceptable words, that is, the invitation to mayors to work more and to keep cities cleaner. But the mayors in Italy are not only Ignazio Marino, mayor of Rome, who has control of AMA, a company that operates in the management of municipal waste, with 7,800 employees. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Italy is made up of hundreds, thousands of mayors of small and medium-sized municipalities, who give up their office allowances, albeit modest, who make full-time volunteers, from morning to evening, who are forced to accept the irresponsible cuts made by governments, especially those of the PD appointed, the Monti Government, the Letta Government and the Renzi Government. Those mayors who have cut a lot of resources and who no longer have a euro, a penny, to cry, to guarantee minimum public services, to face the disastrous situation in terms of social services and who do not even have the money to repair holes in the streets or to fix public parks. Therefore, this invitation, made yesterday by Tokyo by Prime Minister Renzi, shows how far away he is from reality. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This appeal is a shame, it is an insult to the thousands of mayors operating in Italy, who are not absolutely called Ignazio Marino or Luigi De Magistris or others. Shame on you, Renzi! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u49	Senator Scalia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u50	Madam President, Madam Minister, I will speak only on one point of this important, extraordinary reform, which has remained a little under the radar in the public debate and in the debate in this House, both the one that has already taken place and the one that has taken place today ( only Mr Astorre mentioned it just now): the simplification of administrative action, to which the draft law devotes the first articles and the first part. It has been a matter for us for 25 years, from the basic law on administrative procedure, Law No 241 of 1990, which has seen numerous legislative interventions take place: the different Bassanini laws, the annual simplification laws, the liberalisations, especially after the Bolkestein Directive of 2006. These are interventions that have not achieved the desired results, if we are still in 56th place in the Doing business ranking, also due to the difficulty of relationship between our companies, our citizens and public administration. Both in this intervention, which is of system (and perhaps the Senator Astorre is right, when he says that he has had good game, in this case, the previous experience of the Undersecretary Rughetti), and in all the interventions of this Government, almost in every legislative provision, known interventions of simplification; I notice a different approach, that starts from the awareness that simplification is not realized with the magic wand, from above, with legislative interventions or with declarations of principle, so dear to the right to the Government - you will remember - is free everything that is not expressly prohibited by the law. Simplification is a process, made up of successive corrections, of maturation, also cultural, not only of bureaucracy, but also of citizens and businesses in their relationship with the administration. I would just like to give one example, which is alien to this bill: the so-called goldplating, our own mania to transpose Community directives by introducing additional, more stringent obligations and burdens than those that Europe requires of us, putting our companies in difficulty to compete not only with those that operate in emerging countries, who do not know our laws to protect safety at work, health and the environment, but also with the same companies as Germany and other countries of the European Union. Well, today, the law of European delegation lays down the principle that the directives which that law gives a mandate to transpose cannot introduce additional regulations, which are more stringent than those laid down in the directives themselves, as was the case with the law of delegation in the field of public procurement, which laid down the same principle. You see, the story of the attempt at simplification in our country is made up of modules that sometimes (and today very often) operate as instruments of complication rather than simplification. The service conference is an extraordinarily important tool, in a country where the complication also comes from the different levels of government and the different administrations that are involved and intervene in administrative procedures. It is an instrument, a module that allows to put together - now also telematically - the administrations involved and to compare the different interests involved, according to the best possible care of the primary interest and the better exploitation or the lesser penalty of the secondary interests involved. Well, this, in the experience we have experienced so far, was an instrument of complication, because it is always mandatory and very often, for uncomplex procedures, for those interested in it, it is more useful to acquire the few necessary acts of assent than to have the service conference convened. This is because the terms are always ignored and because very often one does not even know which administrations should be part of them or can understand how to calculate the majority. Today it is decided on the basis of the prevailing interest, i.e. what are the prevailing interests and how to put them together. These are all questions - as well as the veto power which the administrations responsible for caring for sensitive interests, such as the environment and health - for which, in the event of legitimate dissent, one must go to the Council of Ministers. The bill intervenes on all these issues, giving delegation to the Government and laying down precise criteria, in order to remedy these defects and to ensure that the conference of services is really a place of mediation of the interests at stake and has a certain duration, defined, short, without veto powers within itself and is not always mandatory, but only as a result of the complexity of the procedure. Another example is related to SCIA, DIA, the mechanism of silence-consent and communication of beginning works: these too today are elements of complication, because sometimes it is not known whether in a given procedure a certified reporting of beginning activity is replaceable or not and very often the professional does not assume the burden or the risk of attesting the applicability of the SCIA rather than an express authorization measure. Here too this reform intervenes, giving the Government the right to indicate precisely what procedures the communication will be used for, for which the SCE, for which the silence-consent and for which the provision expressed, making clarity and thus helping citizens and businesses in the relationship with the public administration. With the approval of this reform, there will be time limits, which were previously indefinite, to the exercise of self-protection by the administration: no more than eighteen months, in the presence of obviously of a current and concrete public interest to review the position taken, to give stability and certainty to the relationship between business, citizens and public administration. Finally, there is a rule that has introduced the Chamber of Deputies that is of extraordinary importance to me, that is, the one that introduces a delegification, that it sends to the government to define by regulation the procedures relative to works of important strategic and general interest and to the start of enterprises with simplified modules. I would like to make a suggestion to the Government: there is a procedure that has worked well so far. I am referring to the single procedure for the authorisation of renewable energy plants. Single procedure and service conference: a single measure authorising construction and management. It worked despite the current flaws of the service conference. An improved service conference could make this a typical process to be used in all these cases deemed relevant by the Government to revive our economy. I conclude by saying that this is a state rule concerning state proceedings. Unfortunately, the regions are very slow and diverse in regulating procedures in matters that affect the flesh of the citizens, the interest of the enterprises, the government of the territory, the building and the health and social services. On this point, however, constitutional jurisprudence, which has now been affirmed and which considers the rules of simplification rules that pose essential levels in performance, must be provided in a homogeneous way throughout the national territory - letter m), paragraph 2 of Article 117 of the Constitution - therefore of exclusive competence of the State; therefore, these rules are imposed on the Regions. I believe that the Government, when proposing this draft law to us, the rapporteur, who is also a technical expert in the matter being an ordinary of administrative law, and all those who have worked in the Commissions on this text have also done an excellent job in the House. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u51	Senator Campanella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I want to begin by saying that the Constitution must be protected. I'm not out of the question. This reform is in line with many others made by this Government and marks progress on the path of the famous structural reforms that have been asked of our country by the European Union and the international financial system. From this point of view, it goes in the precise direction of the summiting of the places of decision, of the reduction of the spaces of participation and of the spaces of control. This is seen in a number of articles and above all in the use, which seems to us overshadowed, of the Institute of Silence assent. This institution is a defeat for the public office. It's like people say to each other, You didn't? So, forget it. There's no need for that anymore. In some ways the function of control that a functioning public must do is abandoned. That is not to say that there are not too many delays and that we must eliminate them. What we support is that these delays should be eliminated by an extraordinary reform of the procedures and the way in which the public administration should function, which should have as its cornerstone the participation of the citizens concerned - those who in English jargon are called by all stakeholders - and the identification of specific responsibilities. To understand, if an office does not attend the service conference, even before the silence-consent, it should go to the manager and ask him why he did not attend. Why is that? In this way we would complete the process, everyone would assume their responsibilities and the public would do its job, which is to ensure that interests are respected, first among all public interests related to the protection of the environment and health. I am referring, in other words, to those interests which in this draft law are considered surpassable on the basis of a decision of the Government or, more specifically, of the President of the Council of Ministers. This is what is happening. With this in mind of reducing to one of the decision-making levels, we are going to rise and rise again, reducing participation and increasing the responsibility of the President of the Council of Ministers, who will then, basically, not pay, for the simple reason that the way to sanction it would be political, that is, not re-election. However, this goes through the information, which is proceeding with the reform of the RAI and the identification of people to him not unwelcome at the top of the highest Italian information agency, so as to ensure that this information is kind to him. Basically, the audience won't work. The public sector now works badly (as I said, responsibilities are not identified and affected), but in the future it will not work anymore, transforming Italy into a country in which it can be done. We can talk, not so much about a government of doing, as has been said so many times, but about a government of being can be done. In some ways this affects all those bodies, institutions and institutions which, within the public administration system, deal with controls effectively. In this way, for example, we come to the conclusion that the Forestry Corps does not serve and can be dismembered or can be assigned its tasks to other forces. It doesn't matter what that means in terms of moving to another force. I think, for example, of the Carabinieri we are talking about, who have another main institutional task. It does not matter that many of the employees of the Forestry Corps will not go to militarize and, therefore, will ask for the transfer to another place. It doesn't matter if an institution that worked - it's recognized by everyone that it worked and still works - will be depowered. The problem is that controls must be reduced. The only control that will actually be maintained is that of administration policy, because - here there is a problem - in defining the relationship between politics and administrative summits, the latter must absolutely assume their responsibilities. If it is true, as I have been able to verify personally, that administrative summits tend not to take responsibility, it is equally true that political summits always condition them - I always say - in one way or another. The change in management legislation increases the potential and conditioning capacity of the administrative summit policy. This, as some colleagues said, is not an extraordinary reform, but an ordinary reform. I no longer count the number of public administration reforms that have been made. What has not been able to change is the actual behaviour and impact of policy on public administration. This is an undue impact, attention, because it is obvious that public administration must apply laws and political decisions, but not in the way it has been done and we read about it all the time in the newspapers. For this reason, this kind of reform - I can make an easy prediction - is not the last one, nor will it solve the problems it claims it wants to solve; at the limit, it will speed up the procedures, but it is not always good. Let me give you an example. Imagine arriving in an emergency room, being greeted and, without being visited, being discharged: very fast, except that they did not check what they had to check and did not do the work for which you had gone to the emergency room. Is that what we're asking for? The public sector, if it is to function, is capable of working, but it must be put in a position to do so, with the necessary funds and decision-making autonomy, with the effective control by citizens, possibly in associations, of stakeholders, of holders of interests that can express a judgment on the performance of public offices, not leaving everything in a privileged relationship between administrative summit and political summit. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u53	President. - The debate is closed. She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u54	Mr President, in this reordering of public administration we are witnessing yet another attempt to weaken the authority of supervisors. Such attempts had already begun with the release of Italy, because already in that measure it was expected that the competent authority could not pass from the conference of services if it did not receive the opinion of the superintendence within established terms. Already there had peeped the silence-consent. Obviously, however, that rule did not seem clear enough to anyone, so there was a concern to intervene in this measure. I appeal to you, Minister Madia, because it is an appeal rather than an intervention. Silence-consent was variously and harshly criticized not by me, but by characters more illustrious than me, first of all Giuliano Volpe, president of the higher council of cultural goods. Minister Franceschini himself made an exception to the rule and had the courage to show a slight disturbance, a slight fear of this measure, and for us it is already great. Professor Andrea Carandini also spoke out against the measure of silence-acceptance applied to artistic goods and the landscape. As Giuliano Volpe says, textual words, this is a crude and dangerous tool because it aims to give a wrong answer to a right need and is ineffective to counter corrupting practices. With silence-consent, in fact, we give the authority to the corrupt superintendent not to assume even the responsibility to give the authorization to a "porcata," in fact we give him the possibility to say that he could not escape that practice in order to issue that opinion, to have forgotten the practice, to be victim of the cover-up of a practice, not to express that opinion and thus open the way to cement castings or the demolition of artistic goods. Once demolished, a good is not recoverable, so we are talking about actions that may not be remedied, because it does not even remedy the devastation of the landscape. Giuliano Volpe and Andrea Carandini, whose voice I bring to this House today, as a promoter of their own proposals, have thought to propose publicly, for example, that in all the Regions - and here I thank the Government, which accepted my agenda that goes in this direction - landscape plans should be made, in the wake of what has already happened virtuoso in the Tuscany Region and in the Puglia Region. Having landscape plans, in fact, would already have a judgment articulated on the use of the territory, as Carandini himself explains; therefore it should not be investigated every time starting from scratch. This would perhaps be a simplification of the investigations which are sometimes required to be able to deliver opinions and which sometimes lengthen the time, pending the answers. Volpe also proposes to activate operating systems and open databases. If we then consider that in this provision there is also the confluence of the superintendences within the prefectures for certain their competences, then within a hierarchically superior organ, able to override and pass over an opinion issued by the superintendence, removing obstacles, you understand well that the concerns and fears that the world of cultural goods and those who care about the protection of the landscape are with more voices expressing in these days would be to listen. The suspicion is that, after the bad teachers and teachers, Renzi decided to take on another category, that of the superiors. Instead of putting hand to the real problems that the superintendences (which there are and that no one wants to deny) with a process, with more adequate times, with greater reflection and listening to the operators of that sector, you have the suspicion that Renzi, as he did with the school, wants instead to give a blow of acceptance or a scythe, removing to the sentries that are in our territory (the superintendences) that power of control that is fundamental to try to save, protect and enhance, with that little power that still have, our artistic and cultural assets and our landscape. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u55	Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u56	Mr President, I take the floor in general, after we have worked very hard in the Senate in the evaluation and modification of this bill, as well as in the study of the work that has been carried out in the House, which has been significant and which has profoundly and in-depth modified some of the issues. I think it is appropriate to highlight some political aspects and give some more concrete examples of the elements that have been modified, of course, just a few of them. A first aspect certainly concerns the purpose of this reform. I believe that, even from the latest news that has appeared these days, the purpose of this reform is evident. We need to reduce the scissors and differences present in our country, from south to north. We can do this in the first place by making uniform one of the key and structural elements of our state: public administration. If we do not start from there, the challenge linked to the reduction of scissors in our country and the reduction of differences (not only in the provision of services, but also in the possibility of having investment and employment opportunities in our country) will be lost at the start. This is really one of the fundamental points to reduce differences in our country; public administration must be seen as a proactive tool in this direction and decisive in this direction. Much has been discussed about the delegation to the Government. Well, in the light of this experience, I believe that, unfortunately, there is still a great deal left in Parliament's classrooms and that there really is a need for a strong shot in our country. This step can be taken by the Government, which grasps within Parliament the general criteria authorising such an important reform as that of the public administration to then translate them into choices that have a consistency and a force capable of producing a real change in Italy. We are always fought between the need for simplicity and the Government of complexity. We need to be user friendly to citizens and businesses, but at the same time there is a complexity of issues and aspects that need to be monitored and that need to be deepened and even bureaucratic. There is a new front office to be put in place for citizens and businesses, just as there is a great need for the organisation of the back office so that this complexity is governed so that the weight does not fall on citizens and businesses. This is the challenge of the Government in its delegations and legislative decrees. Let me give you two examples. At the conference of services convened in the Province - and here I am referring to a real and real experience - the company is asked to provide some documentation together with 12 CD-ROMs, which will then be sent by mail to all the administrations that must be involved in the Conference itself. In this regard, there is an important part to the measure in our examination related to digitalisation and the code of the digital administration. It is not possible to send CD-ROMs by mail; the State must organise itself in such a way that the use of digital administration is consistent. At a time when an administrative path starts online, it must also end online; there can be no interference and exchange between paper and online authorization paths. They are different paths, which must be completed without mutual interference. The other example I want to make is the interweaving between public administration and participating companies. In Emilia-Romagna - I say this because it is my Region - the majority of the municipalities had eliminated the office for the collection of taxes, because there was no longer the tax on waste, but the tariff. This is an example of the scissors present in our country. The rebuilding of the TARI has meant putting in place in the municipalities offices that no longer existed, which were used for the collection of a tax, reintroducing a passage that the citizens and the enterprises now regulated directly with the manager of the service. These are two practical examples of how this reform of the public administration, which affects the chambers of commerce, the participating companies, the local public services, the code of the digital administration, is truly a crucial step. I believe that we are all aware of this, because we are all bearers of concrete experiences and we have in mind the simplifications that must be done in our State, but today we need the courage to carry them forward with consistency. I ask the government to do this work quickly, because the legislative decrees that must be produced must really give the feeling to the whole country - citizens, businesses, but also the operators of the public administration, who must be valued through paths in an area that does not represent for them an element of stagnation and lack of professional evolution - that this is done. This will be the real and most important figure of our country's change. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u57	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to focus on silence and consensus, which has been taken up several times in the debate in this House and which I believe should be linked more generally to the question of public administrations' response times. The silent assent is born because there is no respect for the time taken to pronounce the measures by the public authorities and therefore there is the need to give citizens a tool that will make sure the response of the public administration. Thus arise the silence assent and the silence denial, which are flanked by the silence-refusal, that is to say the refusal to provide. This is certainly a mechanism that marks the failure of the action of the public administration, which marks its inefficiency, but it is an instrument that wants to remedy this inefficiency in absolute adherence to the constitutional values, from those referred to in Article 2, to those referred to in Article 3 and Article 97 of the Constitution. And this value keeps in every field and in every area. The introduction of consensus silence has led to reactions in the bureaucratic apparatus, which have tried to hinder the application of this mechanism not by trying to determine conditions of faster exercise of the administrative function, but by trying to create obstacles to the definition of silence-consent. It is in this context that I believe that the strengthening of the silence-consensus that has been properly introduced into this bill should be assessed. The point is not that of a silence-consent that tarpails the wings to the individual administrations, but of a silence-consent that recalls all the administrations to the respect of own prerogatives, of own fulfillments and of own duties. And in this sense it must be seen the silence-consent placed on these authorizations or on these measures, of various kinds, which concern administrations that also protect particular interests. In this respect, I cannot fail to point out - and my assessment is of a political and not a technical nature - that in the division of tasks and functions within complex administrative activities, the times given to administrations which have to carry out consultative activities or which have to give permissions or ancillary opinions, and not the decisive and definitive ones, are fixed times in a logic of an overall time of performance of the main function and are given in a logic in which the loyal collaboration between the various administrations must exist. There is a constitutional reason for wanting this loyal cooperation between administrations. It is in fact Article 97 of the Constitution that states that the powers of the individual administrations are laid down by law and it is clear that, if one allows a practice for which the administrations, not conditioned by the forecast of silence consent, can allow the time to pass without issuing the provisions of ancillary nature, which must allow the application of the main provision, thus changing the order of competences established by law, violating the constitutional principle of Article 97 of the Constitution. In this key, I confirm my belief that silence agrees, as provided for in Article 2 of the reform, to be constitutional. I think it is right that the request made, which is also contained in approved agendas, should be made so that the budgets of the administrations and, in particular, of the supervisors are increased so that the shortage of staff does not hinder their action. Having said that, I absolutely believe that the measure is right and that it must be seen as a projection towards the future, in the sense of determining mechanisms that exceed more overall the situations of delay and mischief of administrative action. This is therefore one of the main aims of the reform under consideration, starting from the consideration that an administration perceived as a burden, an obstacle or an opponent by the citizens, must be remodeled and redefined, because the function of the administration, in the modern state, as it has evolved also in this country, is to be not an administration of the authority, but an administration of consent, sharing and collaboration, that is, an administration that promotes, encourages and favors and not an administration that blocks. In this respect, we must also take into account the changes that have been made to the services conference, on which I do not think there have been any strong critical arguments in the debate. I therefore believe that the conference of services is one of the cornerstones of this reform, in terms of administrative action. The conference of services, in fact, in this way and with this certainty of the times, becomes a real instrument of administrative action, which can bring to fruition not only the simplification of the administrative activity, concentrating in one place the various authorities that must express the different opinions, but really becoming the place where one can have a comparison on the merit of the issues. The fact that there is no possibility of using the service conference in an instrumental way to delay decisions makes it possible to hope that this can be the case. On the other hand, the whole reform under consideration is concerned with the search to restore an adequate level of loyal cooperation between administrations and to get out of that distorting dimension that we see too often, even in practical experience, because of the contrast between administrations and the will of each administration to mark its territory in a way absolutely distant from the consideration of its function and its fundamental duty, which is that of the protection of the public interest, in the interaction with the private interest, with the demand of the private and the need for the activities to be developed and not to be stopped. On the other hand, this is one of the mechanisms that, to reflect, best guarantees respect for the principle of legality, because a prompt and efficient administration, a rapid administration, removes the alibi to corruption, to the search for escape routes and, giving certainty, also gives a precise reference. From this point of view, I think we can also understand the reason why these measures concerning activity are, in the context of a draft law, together with those concerning the redefinition of the discipline of all public administration staff: from employees - so to speak - not graduated to managers. It is clear that in a design of this nature it is not necessarily necessary to think only of the formal profile, but of who is to interpret this administration, this responsible way of exercising the administration, and in this key is the reform of the work dependent on the public administrations. It is a reform which, unlike what I have heard here, does not go against employees. It is a reform that recognizes the value of employees, but that does not deny that there is also the theme, compared to a minimum proportion of employees, of giving strong signals and that there is also another problem, that of an organization of the public administration that can penalize the value and effectiveness of the work of individuals. And in this key there are certainly objective elements against which this reform seeks to remedy a strong one. Indeed, as we have already said in the debate at first reading and we cannot but repeat it now, the reform of the management, beyond being a novelty, however in the context of the administration of the year 2015 brings an element of novelty, of redefinition of the structure of the public leadership, which has a necessary scope but I also think potentially very positive. Thinking of a leadership that is called to play everything on its professionalism, a leadership that is removed the possibility of living annuity or to consolidate its power in a single area; thinking of a leadership that can no longer have those negative certainties that penalize its function, its role, its professionalism, is not thinking against Italy, it is not thinking against public administration or against citizens: in reality, it is thinking of Italy, public administration and citizens. This reform does not want to penalise the managers, but to call the managers to give to the full, in all situations, in all places and by definition, the maximum of their professional skills. Those who are afraid of this reform are afraid of playing, in terms of their professional and personal qualities, the challenge of their function, otherwise there is no one who should be afraid of this reform. Even less can be afraid of this reform those young people who want to approach the public leadership, because the text under consideration guarantees channels of access much more objective than those that existed before, in the sense that, by focusing the procedures of selection of managers, it gives an element that leads out of the situations that we all know and that have been allowed by an excessive decentralization of the selection of managers. It gives these young paths where you have to play the merit, where you have to play the work commitment, where you have to play in a framework of great motivation and great mobility with respect to yourself, the search for always further work experiences, in a view of the manager who is no longer the manager specialized in one subject, but who is the manager who assumes the basic professionalism that the manager as a whole. It is the ability to manage oneself in different situations and in different positions, having as a prerequisite a basic professionalism, to which is added, precisely thanks to this professionalism, the ability to acquire and to exercise the role in the most different situations. All this is something that will then reverberate also in terms of the relationship with the employees of the public administration. Well, these are the points that best sum up the debate, in the sense that it was the central points. I would like to conclude, because I would not like to forget that, with thanks to the staff of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and all the staff of this House. I'd like to say, if I could afford a joke, that they deserved the holidays, without vacation homework. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u59	I call the Minister for Simplification and Public Administration, Mr Madia.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u60	Mr President, senators and senators, we are almost at the end - I hope - of a long political and parliamentary path, which began with a public consultation, in April 2014. A consultation to which 40,000 citizens replied, not just civil servants, and which was followed first by Decree-Law No 90, converted by Parliament before last summer, and then the adoption a year ago of this bill, which we are discussing here today, in the Council of Ministers. In this year we had two important parliamentary passages, first in the Senate and then in the House. Two parliamentary passages that have profoundly changed the text proposed by the Government, have enriched it and have certainly valued it. They were parliamentary passages in which, by amendment, both in the Commission and then in the House (here in the Senate and then in the House), we wanted to confront ourselves in order to ensure that this text could be the best possible text. Today we are making an assessment and I, to explain to you the reasons for the assessments that, as a Government, we have made, I am taking inspiration from some critical interventions that I have heard in general debate just now. Many critical speeches highlighted the nature of the text that we are discussing. It is a bill delegated, in its broadest part. There are many delegations and, therefore, it will be the legislative decrees and it will be the whole implementing part that will really make this reform and this bill up to the needs of the citizens and the country. It is precisely for this reason, precisely because we are aware that the rate of reformism of a country is not measured by the amount of laws that are approved but by the amount of laws that are implemented and that come, as concrete changes, to the lives of citizens and people, that today our assessment is that certainly any legislative text can always be improved, but that it is urgent to move to the implementation phase, also in order not to retrace those - often bad - habits of the past, so that the delegated laws became a way to postpone a problem, a discussion, government in government and legislature in legislature. That is why I hope that this can be the final reading. I think that the sooner we can have this bill in the Official Journal, the sooner we can bring the legislative decrees to the Council of Ministers and, then, to the attention of the competent committees of the House and Senate. I must also tell you that this assessment, which has already been clear in the course of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs before reaching the debate in this House, seems to me to have been well received, precisely with these reasons, both by the majority (it has been understood by the few, almost null, amendments that have been tabled by the majority and for this I can only thank you), both by the oppositions which, although legitimately different positions on several points, have had no obstructive attitudes. I very much hope that the vote and the debate in this House will continue with what has already been done in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I really hope so, because I believe that the implementation phase of this bill will allow us to act - as has been pointed out in various interventions in general discussion - on nerve points of the administration, which until now have been the subject of blockages, complications and, therefore, of less competitiveness for our country. Of course, this reform is part of a reform process on which the Government is insisting very much. We are talking about growth and reform; in particular, in this reform process, which has made us leave behind the two words that for so many months, even with previous governments, we repeated ourselves, that were the words "crisis" and "austerity", there are certainly three legislative acts, albeit at different stages of approval and implementation, that must be considered together. The first is the implementation of Law No. 56 of 2014, the so-called Delrio Law. The second, which is still under discussion, is the intervention on Title V of the Constitution, which must put order between the competences of the State and those of the Regions, not because it is better for the State of the Regions or better the Regions of the State in having competence and in doing things, but because what we can no longer bear, as a country and as citizens, is the fact that there is confusion and we do not know who does what, because this confusion has brought innumerable conflicts of attribution in recent years, which have, then, materialized in lack of answers or in answers arrived too late to citizens and businesses. The last act is this bill, the heart of public administration reform. These three interventions must go together, because they all have the same objective: to make our state simpler and, therefore, more competitive. What do we do in this bill to meet this goal? We do different things, but they all have three goals that go hand in hand. The first is to have a state that meets the needs of citizens and businesses. What does that mean? Very banally and simply, it means a state that is able to say yes or no, with certain rules and times. I would like to point out that these legislative measures must give the citizen the face of a state that can say yes or no in transparent and certain ways, because some of the interventions contained in this bill have been opposed, sometimes instrumentally, saying: The rules of the draft law for the reform of the public administration will authorize everything. Well, this is profoundly false. Even the rule on silence-consent was one of the most contested by those who rightly recalled the protection of sensitive interests such as those of cultural goods, landscape and health, but did not stress that we have actually introduced - indeed, we are introducing, because Parliament is sovereign - a non-devolutional silence-consent, which instead makes the administration responsible for granting authorisation or not. On the contrary, compared to the supervisors and the competences of the supervisors, who are those who have emerged most in the various critical contributions to this reform, I would like to say that a change that I consider to be improving, which was introduced in the transition to the Chamber of Deputies, has removed the remedy where there is no consensus, but conflict, between different levels of government. Before the passage to the House, if a municipality wanted to authorize a building and the superintendent said that that building could not be done, there was the possibility of having a remedy, a third item that, before the modification, was that of the President of the Council in a collegial discussion in the Council of Ministers. In different levels of government, we have removed this remedy. What does that mean? Very simply, that every time to current legislation - where therefore the law foresees it in the path and in the process of authorization, because we have not changed the rules for the authorizations - the superintendent will say "this can not be done," that thing will not be done. It is a silence-consensus, therefore, that makes the administrations responsible, who owe the citizens and businesses answers, yes or no, with certain times and transparent rules (and I believe that this is a moral duty, I cannot convince myself otherwise). According to the same philosophy, in this first, great objective of the reform, another series of important regulatory interventions is included: I think, for example, of giving a time limit to the possibility of an administration to go into self-protection and therefore to change its mind. Here too, I want to point out something that I think is obvious, but that was not so in some critical notes that there have been. It is clear that we do not change the rules of the civil code and the penal code, but we simply say that an administration, after a certain time, can no longer review its judgment on the administrative legitimacy of that act, also this to give certainty of rules and times to citizens and businesses. As the rapporteur, Senator Pagliari, has pointed out very well before me - and I must add nothing - the intervention we make on the service conference is profound and incisive, which must be a place that simplifies, in which we can understand with greater simplicity and ease whether a public work or a private investment is good or bad for a territory and its citizens. In these years, however, it has not been so: it has been a place of vetoes, which has complicated and bureaucraticized and has often brought too late decisions and authorizations, compared to the needs of those communities, those citizens, even when these were then granted (this is the great paradox) or even when it had to say that a public work had to be done or a private investment could be made. That is why I summarize the first objective of this reform with the expression: to have decision-making processes that allow us to really have a state not so fast to be fast, but fast to be able to meet the needs of its territories and citizens. The second major objective of the reform also starts from an obvious fact, but it is often the most obvious thing to be the most revolutionary. Public resources are managed in the public administration. Public resources are the resources of the citizens, they are the taxes that many citizens with difficulty (also due to the fatigue of everyday life and daily work) pay, because it is a duty. Precisely because paying taxes is a duty of the citizens, it is a duty for those who manage to ensure that there is no euro of those public resources that is wasted and managed inefficiently. That is why we - I am sorry to deny in this regard the intervention of the senator of the Group of the North League - attack all those nodes - it has been said in several speeches - that they had never been able to attack before. I am referring, for example, to unnecessary bodies and public participants. After this reform, only those public participants who really serve as a tool for managing a general and public interest will remain; instead, all those public participants who have been more a social shock absorber in all these years will be eliminated than a useful tool to get a response to the citizens sooner and better. Why are we doing this? Why did I start with public resources and taxes? Because avoiding waste and inefficiencies will enable us to give citizens more quality services. This is why, immediately after, in the article that regulates the topic of public participants, we therefore address the issue of local public services and intervene to charge less taxes because we will remove any waste and any inefficiency. The third and final major objective of this bill is to be able to use modernity as a means of modernising our democracy as a means of regaining citizens' confidence in the institutions. I would like to stress in reply to this general debate that we are introducing in this draft law legislation on transparency which will be innovative and avant-garde in Europe and in the world. We are introducing the freedom of information act; we are bringing - if this bill becomes State law - our country to have innovative legislation on transparency. Transparency means, in fact, using new technologies and modernity; using everything that is now part of our time as a tool to improve democracy. It no longer makes sense to say whether we are in favour or against transparency. It only makes sense to understand that transparency is part of our time and to make it an instrument of transparency and better democracy. I should like to conclude with a wish. These three objectives of the bill will take us back in the second path. I was saying at the beginning that we are almost at the end of a first long political and parliamentary path, but now the path of the implementation of the delegation will begin: it will probably be the most exciting path, because from the implementation of the delegation will result in concrete changes for the lives of people. The objectives to be pursued will be three: a state that meets the needs of citizens and businesses, a modernity truly at the service of democracy and a moral commitment to eliminate any waste and inefficiency in order to improve services for citizens and reduce taxes. These will be the three objectives that we will take in the drafting of the legislative decrees and, therefore, in the implementation phase. I believe that, by sharing these three objectives, we will be able to make another ambitious path. When I say we think about the government and Parliament together. Senator Bonfrisco said that the measure contains a very vast set of delegations, considering it a critical element. I believe that this is instead an element that testifies to the incisiveness of the reform and the fact that we wanted to face all the nerves of the administration that today block the competitiveness of the country. Precisely for this reason, the implementation path will be ambitious and made by the Government and Parliament together. Senator Lo Moro recalled that, in each article, we have approved a reinforced implementation path in the interaction between Government and Parliament. There have been amendments that we discussed and approved in the first parliamentary passage to the Senate. I am convinced that, always bearing in mind the three major objectives of the reform, this strengthened path will enable us to make a path of implementation of great ambition and to really intervene with incisiveness and profoundly on everything we have said we want to do. I really thank Senator Lo Moro, the rapporteur, President Finocchiaro and the parliamentary groups, both by majority and by opposition, and I hope that, just as there has been a good parliamentary process of the bill so far, there can soon be an equally beautiful process of implementation by the Government and Parliament together. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u63	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, pursuant to Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, for the reasons which I have already expressed in the examination of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, I would ask you to vote on the non-version to the examination of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u64	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal not to proceed to the examination of the articles put forward by Senator Crimi. Verification of CRIME quorum (M5S). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the discussion of draft law n. 1577-B PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles, made by Senator Crimi. It's not approved. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I note that the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report, has been received and is distributed. In accordance with Rule 100 (8) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency declares that amendments 1.8, 1.19, 1.21, 1.22, 1.23, 1.26, 1.27, 1.29, 2.10, 7.9, 7.10, 7.11, 7.14, 7.15, 7.16, 7.22, 8.3 and 10.8, as they do not have any real modifi cation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u65	Mr President, Amendment 1.30, which we have also discussed in the Commission, is very simple and would give a signal to those citizens for whom this reform is said to be done. This is an issue that has been dealt with several times from the legislative point of view, but still today many public administration offices do not apply the rules relating to self-certification not so much with respect to the enterprise or to other subjects, but with respect to ordinary citizens. I put this question again to the attention of the Government and the rapporteur, also because it was said in the Commission that all the rules had to be reunited in order to give them more cogency. I would therefore ask the rapporteur and the Government whether they are in favour of making this amendment on the agenda, precisely in order to make all the rules more binding and therefore truly applicable to citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u66	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u67	Mr President, I begin with Amendment No 1.30, which has just been put forward by Senator De Petris: stating that in fact administrative sanctions are already provided for, I have nothing against its transformation into an agenda. For all the other amendments tabled in Article 1, I would like to withdraw otherwise.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u68	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u69	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.5 tabled by Senator Mauro Mario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.6 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.8 is inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.9, tabled by Senator Mauro Mario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.10 tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.12, tabled by Senator Mauro Mario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.13, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.14, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.15, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.16, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.17, tabled by Senator Mauro Mario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.18.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u72	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to say that it is essential - in my opinion - to vote on this amendment, at the first signature of Senator Crimi, which I support, as well as the other amendments tabled by the Group, especially for those who, in their own municipalities or when they go on television programmes, say that access to the web is essential and that citizens are given the opportunity to access it free of charge. In this case, you would have the opportunity to concretize what you normally say in words.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u73	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,18, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.19 is inadmissible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.20, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.21, 1. 22 and 1.23 are inadmissible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.24, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.25, tabled by Senator Mauro Mario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.26 and 1.27 are inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,28, tabled by Senator Zizza. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.29 is inadmissible. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G1.30 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u74	Mr President, I am calling for a withdrawal or otherwise I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u75	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u76	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.3, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.4, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2.5, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators, until the words 'of the project' are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 2.5 and Amendment 2.6 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.7, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2.8, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators, up to the words 'environmental character'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 2.8 and Amendment 2.9 are therefore not included. Amendment 2.10 is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.11 which is essentially the same as Amendment 2.12.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u79	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, these amendments - on which I spare you my thoughts - as well as the previous ones tabled by Senator Campanella, tend to introduce within the conference of services - which we have also heard about in the description of the type of reform, in the reply of the Minister, all oriented in the sense of promoting the relationship with citizens, businesses and the territory - a public debate procedure, which can find space in the redefinition of the types of conference and the decision-making processes, in order to really start a transparent process within the Conferences of the services, there being a problem of transparency vis-à-vis the communities and citizens. This is an issue which we have been discussing for a long time, and which we have also talked about during the reordering of the procurement code, of delegation. I believe, however, that this measure is the best opportunity - it is precisely the relationship between citizens and administrations and the involvement and participation of citizens themselves - to include a principle that clearly states that it is time to proceduralise the debate process, which is a fundamental element. I don't think, as many people think, that this process is going to lengthen the time. On the contrary, it is a process that allows all projects to be known and the public debate itself - in fact, we are talking about projects that then impact on the life of communities and territories - allows them to be known and deepened, giving citizens the opportunity to express their opinion, because very often they concern the same quality of their lives.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u80	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.11, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 2.12, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Gotor points out that he had a problem with the voting system and that he wanted to vote - I imagine - in favour. The Presidency takes note of this, Senator. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u81	Mr President, I call on the authors to withdraw the amendments, otherwise the opinion is against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u82	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u83	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.2 tabled by Senator Zizza. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.3, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.4, tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u86	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, Rule 3 concerns the well-known question of silence-consensus which, both in the general debate and in the replies of the rapporteur and the Minister, has had a considerable amount of space. I believe that it regulates the Institute of Silence-Consensus, as it has been regulated in Article 3, thinking that it is once again a step forward to streamline the relationship between citizens and administration and above all to make sure to overcome delays that may often be inexplicable in the Conferences of Services or in expressing opinions, represents only a part of the truth. The real novelty of this article is the fact that the mechanism of silence is introduced for the first time - also with respect to administrations responsible for the protection of sensitive interests, and therefore environmental protection, landscape and cultural heritage. Our view is that this is not a way of ensuring greater protection. Already in the question I referred to a number of rulings by the Constitutional Court on this matter, and I believe that there have been at least three such judgments. If the problem had been to ensure that the superintendents and all other environmental, landscape and territorial authorities could express their opinion even quickly, there would have been a clear need for different investments. We could have a long discussion here about the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and the conditions under which it is held, and you, Mrs. Minister, know perfectly well that for years there has been a list of precariousness within the Ministry of Cultural Heritage, Territorial Superintendents and Provincials, who are unable to express their opinion on the protection of our landscape, which is the most precious asset we have, precisely to meet the acceleration of the times. And in order to do this, it was necessary to enable supervisors and other administrations to express themselves quickly. I believe that the solution to ensuring greater protection in this respect is not silence-consensus. You'll never convince us about that. Moreover, in the mechanism of reordering the offices themselves of the superintendences that - as has been said - will ultimately depend hierarchically, at a territorial level, on the prefectures, the Chamber has been introduced - alas - also the silence- agreement between public administrations and managers of public goods and services. I believe that this is not the way to protect public interests, which is what we are here for. Finally, I wonder, if all the paralysis in our country really was true, why in recent years, and unfortunately still today, we have the highest rate of soil consumption in Europe. Obviously something does not work in all these reasonings and the administrations and conferences of services should pose the problem. The question of silence-consent must, then, be regulated in such a way as to defend first and foremost the public interests, which are those of sustainable development and, especially in a country like ours, the protection of one of the most precious goods we have. Or, as Senator Montevecchi has already indicated in her speech in general discussion, you must work to ensure that all the Regions, as Puglia and Tuscany have done, finally approve the regional law on the country plans. And, therefore, the work will be facilitated. But the truth is another: even the famous and much praised bill on land consumption has disappeared: it is stuck in the Chamber of Deputies and you do not know where it is. It has been announced that all the relevant rules should be dealt with and therefore legal certainty with regard to the country plans, but it is no longer known what happened to them. For these reasons we cannot but oppose this article, because what we are dealing with here really is an absolute novelty. Even governments that have not properly regulated environmental issues have never come to include the principle of silence-consent for bodies and administrations responsible for the protection and protection of such goods, because there has always been a caution, due to the fact that they are constitutionally protected goods.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u87	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u88	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u89	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u90	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.1, which is identical to Amendment 4.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u93	I would ask you, however, to speak briefly, because I remind all my colleagues that many groups have spent all the time at their disposal. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I did not use a second in the general debate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Your colleagues did, Senator Volpi. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we shall support the deletions of Article 4, which I believe have been taken into account very little in relation to the importance of its content. When it comes to giving such a broad delegation, without any definition of the procedures and those that are indicated as activities, it seems incredible that even a government commission can be allowed, compared to some actions to reduce procedures. I think it's someone's thing: it sounds like a rule with a first name and a last name, and I'd worry about it. As I said, we will therefore support the deleted amendments to Article 4. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u96	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u97	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Girotto and other senators, identical to Amendment 4.2, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.3, tabled by Senator Girotto and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u100	Senator Fucksia, unfortunately, also applies to you the speech on the times given to Senator Volpi. FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, I had raised my hand to ask for the floor earlier, but I have not been looked at. I would ask you to add my signature to Amendment 4.17, if Senator Perrone allows it, because not giving a public administration the data already in possession of other public administration is an old process that would be time to conclude. I am referring both to the Bassanini law, and to article 15, paragraph 1, of law n. 183 of 2011, which amends the DPR in the matter of documentation of public administration. There are many cases in which the public administration has to give the same data several times and the administrations have to pay them back. So, in fact, I think this - and I am addressing Mr Madia in particular - is one of those things to be done as soon as possible: if we want to streamline and make the public administration efficient, surely to duplicate the passages for the umpteenth time does not go in that direction.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u103	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business and on time management. Clearly, we are looking at a particularly significant measure and there has been a delay in the debate. In this respect, I would ask you to bear in mind that our Group has not practically intervened during the examination of the amendments, while fully respecting the timetable. I would ask you, therefore, to be willing to allow more time on specific issues. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I am always available, but the problem is that your Group has already spent plenty of time at its disposal. In addition, what you have now used to do this is time taken away from your Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u106	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I agree with the request made by Senator Candiani, since it is within his power to harmonise the time limits for them to be adequate. It is quite clear that there is plenty of time to examine the measure on the agenda and that we could put other items on the agenda before 7 August, but there is a willingness to conclude the work on Wednesday. So let's say there's time, and I don't think any of the other groups will go and trade out if you use a few more minutes. For the moment we are acting sparingly and at the most with one or two targeted interventions on each article. I would ask you, therefore, to be as helpful as possible, given that we have time and that there will be no intervention by the majority.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u107	I will be very flexible, but perhaps the majority will speak all about the last article. You never know. AIROLA (M5S). I wish he could intervene! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, please. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.4, tabled by Senator Girotto and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.5, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.6, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.7, tabled by Senator Girotto and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 4.8, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words 'and 'f'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 4.8 and Amendment 4.9 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.10, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.11, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.12.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u110	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, since we share with Senator Crimi the notion that the terms must be peremptive because this increases the certainty of the citizens, but we do not agree with the second part of its amending dictation, we would kindly ask the same Senator Crimi and the Presidency for the possibility of this amendment being voted in two parts, the first of which goes to the words: 'peremptory endings', reduced. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crimes, would you like to comment on Senator D'Alì's request?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u111	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator D'Alì for the observation and sharing of the initial part of Amendment 4.12. But it is precisely the second part that characterizes the amendment and represents the will that we want to express with it, rather than the first part. The first part brings with it the next part. So I thank Senator D'Alì for his willingness to vote on the first part of the amendment, but dismembering it would undermine the very reason for the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u112	Thank you for not having insisted on the request for a split vote, Senator Crimi, because the Presidency would not have accepted it, as it was not really modifiable.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u115	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, if a deadline is peremptory, it cannot be reduced or increased. I would therefore ask Senator Crimi to evaluate the request for a split vote, otherwise the amendment would contradict in terms. If a term is peremptory, in fact, it cannot be reduced or increased.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u116	In any case, since Amendment 4.12 does not make sense of logic or regulation if the vote is separated, the request for a split vote cannot be accepted by the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u119	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to explain to Senator Caliendo that in the amendment it is written "peremptory terms," reduced or, if so, added, in a specific case, "increased." It is therefore the second part that characterises the amendment and not the term "peremptori".
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u120	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.12, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.13, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 4.14, tabled by Senator Girotto and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.15, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.16 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.17, tabled by Senators Perrone and Fucksia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u121	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u122	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u123	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.1, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.2, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators, identical to amendment 5.3, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.4, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.5, tabled by Senator Girotto and other senators, identical to Amendment 5.6, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which an amendment has been tabled, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u124	I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u125	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u126	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.1 tabled by Senator Mauro Mario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 7, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Article 7 gives a delegation to the Government concerning the reform of the rules on advertising, transparency and dissemination of information by public administrations, contained in Legislative Decree No. 33 of 2013 is practically the implementation of Law No. 190 of 2012, the so-called Severino law. The Chamber of Deputies has suppressed the other object of the delegation, contained in the original text, concerning the reform of the discipline in the matter of inconferibility and incompatibility of assignments to public administrations and private entities subject to public control, of which Legislative Decree n. 39 of 2013, also issued in implementation of the law anti-corruption of 2012. I wonder and ask you: why? Perhaps in order to avoid at the root the problem of having to discuss some amendments, such as this one, which tries to introduce the stop sign to the relocations, that is to say the foreclosure for those who have been in positions of government or in Parliament to play top roles in public administrations for at least two years? At first reading, I have already mentioned that tens of thousands of citizens have signed the appeal "Restarting the future" and that even Raffaele Cantone, for months, has asked to put his hand to this distortion. At this point, the ball, for the umpteenth time, passes to you: do you vote on this amendment or do you prefer to perpetrate a misconception that is good for many people, especially in this House?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u128	Mr President, I come back to an issue that has already been discussed in general, namely the request by the National Anti-Corruption Authority, ANAC, with the Act of Guideline No 4 of 10 June 2015, to intervene in this draft law for the reform of the public administration to regulate certain aspects relating to the inconferibility and incompatibility of tasks that are assigned by public administrations. In Amendment 7.2, I have taken up eight points, which I would like to make without going into detail on all of them. The first refers to the clarification of the regulatory relations between inconferibility and incompatibility. Often the terms are used almost as synonyms, but the difference is evident: the inconferibility is about not being able to confer an assignment initially on the basis of certain characteristics of the person to whom it is thought to be given; the incompatibility, however, is linked to situations that prevent the continuation of the assignment. On this subject the DAC is clearly expressed and I believe that it should be properly considered. I refer, moreover, to point 6 of the aforementioned act of address, which deals with what, in French, is called "pantouflage" and, in English, "revolving doors," i.e. the transition from a public office to a public office in an institution or a private company, clearly raising a suspicion on the part of many of a possible action, during the public office, in favour of some private body and some company, which subsequently rewards the person in charge of the public office through a high-level assignment perhaps in a private company. These are some points not of my own volition, but they take back the 25 points of the DAC document. And with Amendment 7.2 we have the last opportunity to please President Cantone, who had requested us on June 10, 2015, writing explicitly that he would consider it important to use the opportunity of this bill. I hope that this will happen, although it may lead to a delay, because it would mean changing the text and returning to the House's examination. However, I believe that, for a majority, to which the numbers in the House do not lack, this intervention is particularly important. I therefore hope that the House will vote accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u129	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u130	Mr President, I am opposed to all the amendments and to the G7.1 and G7100 agendas, the latter with the following rewording:
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u131	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u132	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.1, tabled by Senator Fucksia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.2, tabled by Senator Orellana and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 7.3, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.5, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.6, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.7, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Mr Perrone and Mr Bruni to vote by a simultaneous ballot on Amendment 7.8. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 7.9, 7.10 and 7.11 are inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.12, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.13, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 7.14, 7.15 and 7.16 are inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.17, tabled by Senator Mauro Mario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.18, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.19, tabled by Senator Simeoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.20, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.21, tabled by Senator Mauro Mario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 7.22 is inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.23, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.24, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 7.25, tabled by Senator Mauro Mario, up to the words "the following": (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 7.25 and amendment 7.26 are therefore excluded. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 7.27, tabled by Senator Mauro Mario, up to the words "the following": (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Therefore, the remaining part of amendment 7.27 and amendment 7.28 are not included. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 7.29, tabled by Senator Mauro Mario, up to the words "the following": (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 7.29 and amendment 7.30 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u135	Orellana (Mist). Mr President, I insist that the G7.1 agenda be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u136	I call on Senator Orellana and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on the G7.1 agenda. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Gatti, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the G7100 agenda? GATTI (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G7100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 8, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u137	Mr President, Amendment 8,70 would like to make sure that the superintendences of the confluences within the prefectures are preserved precisely for the previous speech. Minister, we agree with the silence-consent, but it seems to me to be a punitive thing to bring together the expertise in the field of artistic and landscape heritage to the prefectures. At this point we would have to wonder what the superintendence of the Premier will have ever done. I return to the previous speech: we have punished the teachers and now we punish the superintendents too; it really can't be done anymore! You are not paid for silence-consent and you also want to weaken and impoverish the superintendence of their competences. Speak clearly and make manifest your plan, which starts with the MIBACT reform, with the art bonus and goes through the unlock Italy to find us here today. If you don't give a damn about art and the landscape, say it quietly and we'll stop getting angry! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u138	Senator Montevecchi: she's a lady!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u139	[[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u140	Mr President, the G8.1 agenda addresses an issue which arose during the examination of the measure in the House. I do not see President Latorre now, but some members of the Defence Commission are here, who unanimously adopted an opinion, which is echoed on the agenda. When amendments were tabled, the House was given the opportunity to reorder careers for the safety sector, which is certainly right and proper. There are a number of issues in the sector. The lack of renewal of contracts that affected the whole public, the problems of reordering careers and legal events have caused serious damage to the staff. However, we believe - on this point my agenda invites the Government and the Defence Commission in its opinion agreed unanimously - that the whole area of security and defence should be taken into account. Alongside the police forces or armed forces that have police powers such as the Carabinieri and the Finance Guard, there is all the rest of the armed forces (Army, Navy and Air Force) waiting for procedures to reorder. Moreover, the law that has sanctioned the specificity of the security and defence sector, in fact, has invested the security and defence sector. We therefore call on the Government, on this agenda, to make a commitment to resolve the problems that might arise in the security sector. It is an agenda that aims to add and not to remove. In essence, not being the amendable measure at second reading - although it would have been better to do so - with the agenda, where accepted by the Government - in the House I believe that a similar agenda has already been accepted and I therefore expect a favourable opinion - there would be a commitment that would allow us to work on the subject of reordering extended also to the armed forces and not only to the worthy police forces, but also to others, although with particularity and specificity that, within the delegated measures, will have to be addressed sector by sector and grade by grade. I don't want to entertain you on the details. The request is to obtain, as in the House, an approval of the agenda which is important for a sector that invests hundreds of thousands of people and that we have transfused into the Commission's opinion in the Defence Committee. There are colleagues - I am sorry not to see the President - who can confirm that if they think so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u141	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u143	Rossi Luciano (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I confirm what Mr Gasparri has just said and I would ask you to put my signature on the G8.1 agenda, inviting the rapporteur to pay attention to such an important and sensitive agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u144	We note that Senators Mauro Mario, Scilipoti Isgrò, Buemi and Volpi (on behalf of the Senators of the Lega-Nord Group) also add the signature to the agenda G8.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u145	Mr President, I would like to speak briefly on the G8.9 agenda, which stems from the fact that in Article 8 (1) (f) a delegation was introduced to the Chamber of Deputies for the discipline of the port authorities further to that already foreseen for the reform of the Italian Paralympic Committee (discipline that seems to us to be somewhat heterogeneous). The delegation previews, in particular, the reorganization and the simplification of the discipline of the harbour authorities, with reference to the identification of authorities of system as well as to the governance, taking also the role of the Regions. The field of the harbour authorities is rather complex and with a normative stratification that has meant that, as everyone knows, until today and in the past legislators has failed to carry out a reform. To date, in the 8th Commission, we are analysing a text which has in any case had a significant deepening. Its complexity arises also from the need to reorganize the port authorities. The delegation under consideration should therefore tackle this issue in an organic way. The agenda is intended to bind the Government with two requests. The first is to give an organic vision through the decrees that will be adopted, but taking into account the specificity (on the one hand, organicity and, on the other, specificity) to avoid inconsistencies and overlaps with the other instruments. Secondly, three elements must be taken into account. Article 117, paragraph 3, of the Constitution states that civil ports fall within the fields of concurrent legislation and, therefore, it is necessary to take into account the relationship between State and Regions, the State-Regions Conference and what the Regions think. Second, the implementation of the delegation can not prescind from the contained forecasts in the national strategic plan of the portualità and the logistics, that it is transmitted to the Parliament pursuant to article 29 of the so-called provision unblocks Italy, that it contains a specific proposal for the reform of the governance, emphasizing that this must take into account of the law 28 January 1994, n. 84 (that it establishes exactly how it must proceed) also regarding the topics of rationalization, the reorganization and the understanding. In conclusion, we call for the Government to keep these two commitments. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u146	Mr President, I would like to explain amendment 8.1, which provides that the need to implement computer procedures is taken into account in the work of shrinking services and instrumental activities. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that on many occasions I have found that computer procedures produced outside public administrations (i.e. outsourced services) have made public administrations obtain unsuitable and inadequate products at insane costs. In fact, within public administrations the need is drastically reduced by the analysis of procedures, which the internal operators can better illustrate to colleagues of computer services; this allows to achieve the same result (i.e. the computerization of services) with standards similar to those produced from outside or even better, with extremely reduced costs. Imagine considering the functions related to computerization of procedures as other functions is a strategic error.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u147	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u148	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 8. On the G8.1 agenda, the opinion is in favour if the rewording of the device is accepted by replacing the words "the Government is committed to taking the appropriate initiatives" with the following: "the Government is committed to assessing the appropriate initiatives."
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u149	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u151	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Does the remaining part of the device remain unchanged? Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. Yes, Senator Gasparri. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Then I welcome the rewording proposed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u152	I welcome the G8.2, G8.3 and G8.4 agendas and G8.5. On the agenda G8.6 the opinion is in favour if the following reformulation of the operative part is accepted uniformly to the other agendas of the matter: it commits the Government to carry out, in the form considered of the case, for the implementation of the delegation referred to in Article 8 (1) (d) of the draft law under consideration, a comprehensive and complete verification of all relevant parameters and criteria as a condition to proceed with the possible transfer of functions and to guarantee the cost-effectiveness of the implementation of the delegated act. I am in favour of the G8.7 agenda. On the G8.8 agenda, the opinion is in favour if the following rewording of the mechanism is accepted: Finally, I am in favour of the G8.9 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u153	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u156	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask the rapporteur to clarify the rewording of the G8.1 agenda, because our Group would perhaps be willing to sign it. Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. My proposal is to reformulate the agenda arrangement G8.1 by replacing the words "the Government" with the words "the Government" to evaluate the appropriate initiatives to regulate it. MARTON (M5S). We ask Senator Gasparri for permission to sign his agenda as reworded, as the M5S Group. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gasparri, do you accept Senator Marton's request? Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u157	I would also like to add my signature and that of the Senators of the Group to the agenda G8.1 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u158	Senator Gasparri, do you accept Senator Uras' request? Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u159	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.1, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.2, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 8.3 is inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.4, tabled by Senator Mauro Mario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.5, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.6 tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.7, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.8, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.9, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.10 tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.36 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 8.37, tabled by Senator Mauro Mario, until the words "the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 8,37 and Amendment 8,38 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.47 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.48, tabled by Senator Mauro Mario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.49, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.50, tabled by Senator Mauro Mario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 8.51 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.52, tabled by Senator Mauro Mario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.55, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.56 tabled by Senator Mauro Mario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.57, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.58, tabled by Senator Matteoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.61 tabled by Senator Matteoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 8,62 tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.63 tabled by Senator Bruni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.64 tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.68, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendment 8.69, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 8.70.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u160	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u162	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I would like to draw the House's attention to the importance of this amendment. At the cost of being heavy, it is madness to associate with silence-acceptance also this measure, which is nothing more than a punitive measure. You take the responsibility of impoverishing the superintendence of their powers and weakening the important work of garrison, protection and enhancement of our artistic and landscape heritage that they carry out on the territories. Know that, by voting against this amendment, you take on this responsibility; and you do not assume it in front of me, but you assume it in front of all those who care about our artistic heritage and our landscape and, above all, against the people who work in that sector every day, against eminent exponents among those who, every day, strive for the protection of our heritage. You take on this responsibility. When a monument is demolished without proper permission and when the landscape is disfigured, each of you, each of you who will vote against this amendment, will be directly responsible for that disaster. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u163	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.70, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.71 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.72, tabled by Senators Cioffi and Puglia, identical to amendment 8.73, tabled by Senator Crimi and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.74.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u164	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u166	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would just like to emphasise the difference with the text proposed and approved by the House, in order to show the difference as to how a full delegation to the Government should be given. In this amendment it is always spoken of reduction and rationalization of the harbour Authorities, but we speak also of the modalities with which to implement this rationalization and efficient the Authorities themselves; we speak of how it chooses the presidents of the harbour Authority, to characterize the procedures, the characteristics and so on, not leaving a generic reference to the reorganization, to the rationalization and the simplification of the discipline concerning the harbour Authorities, without moreover some indication on the number of the same (it is not said if they must be reduced or increased). The rule is unclear. In the norm, we are still talking about the identification of system authorities, as well as governance, giving the Government ample power to decide how to reorganize. In theory, as the norm is written, the harbour Authorities could also be doubled, since rationalization depends on how one interprets it. Instead, the amendment aims to introduce a different forecast, detailing the directives and principles to be adopted in the delegation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u167	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.74, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.75, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.76 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.77, tabled by Senators Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.78, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.79, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Gasparri, do you insist on voting on the agenda G8.1 (text 2)? Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G8.1 (text 2), presented by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Marinello, do you insist on voting on the agenda G8.2? MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Yes, Mr President, I insist. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G8.2 tabled by Senator Marinello and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would ask those present whether they insist on voting on the G8.3 agenda? PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G8.3, presented by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I ask Senator Arrigoni if he insists on voting on the agenda G8.4. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u170	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, on behalf of all my colleagues in the Lega Nord and Autonomy Group, I would like to be able to sign the G8.4. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G8.4 tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G8.5 agenda will not be put to the vote. I would like to ask the G8.6 draftsmen if they accept the rapporteur's proposal for rewording? DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Yes, Mr President, and I insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G8.6 (text 2), tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Mandelli, do you insist on voting on agenda G8.7? MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G8.7, tabled by Senator Mandelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Endrizzi, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda by the rapporteur, Mr G8.8? ENDRIZZI (M5S). Yes, Mr President, and I insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G8.8 (text 2), presented by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Cardinali, do you insist on voting on the agenda G8.9? CARDINALI (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G8.9, presented by Senator Cardinali and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 8.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u171	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u173	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, let me at least briefly comment on the article, since we have not been able to intervene on the part of the State Forestry Corps in other police forces, because we have seen that this is a decision that the Government has now taken, just as so many others have taken. Turning to what my colleague has just said, there is almost a doubt that in the life of our President-in-Office of the Council there have been events related to certain elements of our public administration. My colleague mentioned the superiors, and in the same way I can imagine that perhaps even the forest police could have played a role in his post as mayor, prior to that of Premier, and perhaps had put the poles in his wheels in something or perhaps prevented some operation that he wanted to carry out. We can only hold that doubt, but sooner or later we will flee. In any case, today we sing the de profundis of the Forest Corps of the State: in fact many citizens, in particular those living in the most distant and remote parts of Italy, in the mountains or in the places most affected by environmental degradation, illegality linked to environmental protection and waste management, will see a safety garrison fail. Nor has it served the attempt made in this branch of Parliament to guarantee at least the unity of this Body, even if inserted within another structure, that unity that would guarantee the continuation of that work that was doing well in some areas, but not even that has gone well to the other House, where the majority is clearly of the PD and therefore the responsibility is unique, there are no others and it is to be identified in the majority that the House is overwhelming. It is an example of what will happen in the future, when the Senate is actually not abolished, but cancelled in its functions and the House will move forward with decisions like a train, perhaps ignoring the considerations that can come from the other political forces that represent a large slice of the country. So today, with this vote, let's definitely say goodbye to the State Forestry Corps. [[Applause from Senator Airola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u174	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u176	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we shall vote against Article 8 for many reasons. I will also focus on the most serious aspect of this article. Frankly, we did not understand - and I say this once again to the Minister - why this choice was made of the actual dissolution of the Forestry Corps. We had, instead, a great opportunity to finally build a great environmental police, absorbing also the provincial police, and this, yes, was part of a reform plan, after the approval after twenty-one years of the law that introduces environmental crimes in our country. Today we have serious doubts as to how we can actually carry out a work of prevention, repression and protection in this field. Agendas have been approved, others of the same tenor, even at my first signature, had been approved in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in an attempt to reduce the damage, but we certainly risk very much in this country, which is also marked by a series of crimes - I would like to remind you: three every hour - to the detriment of our environmental heritage and our biodiversity. I still hope that, in the following, even after the adoption of the draft law on public administration, in the legislative decrees there may be an attempt to resettle, because otherwise you really do not understand the ratio of all this. In this regard it is good that everyone knows that, while the National Corps is dissolved, all the bodies of the Regions remain under special statute, which are six and which, as a whole, have more members of the Forest Corps at national level. So I don't think the spending review is very successful.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u177	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u179	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, we believe that this white delegation, given to the Government, will certainly reduce environmental protection and prevention against hydrogeological failure, while the activities of countering eco-reactions, agri-food fraud, animal abuse and poaching from tomorrow will have the weapons sprung up. We are aware that the majority of Parliament wants the Forestry Corps to be merged into the Carabinieri's weapon. As I said earlier, in the course of the general discussion, although this has a logical meaning, given the presence in the Arm of the Carabinieri of the ecological operating core (NOE) and its widespread distribution, from the point of view of practice we believe that the transition from civil to military law of 7,800 operators of the State Forestry Corps creates not a few problems. We therefore believe that, even with the commitment made earlier by the Government, with the G8.4 agenda, to maintain the civil status of the operators of the State Forestry Corps, this can create many problems. Certainly the objective of not dispersing the heritage of experience and capacity of the current Forest Corps of the State will be undermined. I would stress once again that the transition from civil to military law, which is compulsory for men and women, is not secondary. Certainly there will be problems and what seems to be the choice of the government will inevitably lead to the dismemberment of the Forest Corps, which, at the limit, we would have wanted to transfer, if anything, to a department of the State Police. I therefore declare the North-League Group's vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u180	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 9, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u181	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u182	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u183	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 9.1, tabled by Senator Mauro Mario, up to the words "the word "". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 9.1 and amendment 9.2 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Colleagues, do you want to work a little longer? [[Comments]] I see enthusiasm! We shall therefore proceed to the examination of Article 10, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u184	I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 10.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u185	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u186	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.1 tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 10.2, tabled by Senator Mauro Mario, up to the words "with the following text." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 10.2 and Amendments 10, 3, 10,4 and 10.5. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.6, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.7, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would remind you that Amendment 10.8 is inadmissible. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 11, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which are set out, and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u187	The opinion was opposed to all the amendments, while it was in favour of the G11.1 and G11.2 agendas. The opinion on the G11.3 agenda is opposed unless the operative part is clarified. You could put him away. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u188	Colleagues, I do not give up voting on Rule 11 because we have to think about the arrangements for an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u189	Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. Then the opinion is against it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If there's no device, Mr. Palliari, rapporteur. The device is there, it is a matter of better understanding the scope. [[Live comments in the Chamber.]] All right, the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u190	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u191	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.1 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u192	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u194	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, I would have liked to have tabled two amendments to Article 11. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fucksia, you are not the first signatory of amendments. First I called all the first signatories and you didn't answer. FUCKSIA (M5S). Then I reserve the right to speak in the explanation of vote on Amendments Nos 11,47 and 11,50. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It will when we come to the vote on those amendments. However, Amendment 11.50 does not exist. [[Laughter]] Colleagues, no laughing.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u195	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u197	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you either to remove the sitting or to call Members to a more appropriate attitude to the role we are playing. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Campanella. Greeting comments and ironic applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u198	Colleagues, we are doing a good job; we are coming to the end, we are trying not to ruin everything. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.5, tabled by Senator Perrone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.7 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.10 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11:18, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.21, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.26, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.28 tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.29 tabled by Senator Bruni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.31 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.33, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 11,34 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.37, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.39, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.40, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.41 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.42 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 11:43 tabled by Senator Perrone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.45, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 11,46 tabled by Senator Zizza. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.47.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u199	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u201	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, Article 11 refers to the assessment based on the principle of merit, efficiency and results. Then I believe that in the national committee, for reasons of third-party travel and better evaluation of appointments, there must be a third-party control which can be given, for example, by three representatives of the management associations of the main health companies, since they are then the ones who must bring the results.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u202	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.47, tabled by Senator Fucksia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.48, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.49, tabled by Senator Taverna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.53, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.54, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G11.1, G11.2 and G11.3 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u203	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u204	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u205	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, my speech is in addition to the previous speeches, which have now taken on a weekly basis. I am referring to the usual complaint, repeated and, unfortunately, to date, without the possibility of being withdrawn, for the failure to answer questions and questions. This has been happening for more than two years now, given that requests for answers remain shamefully unheard of. It is not possible that we are at 10% - perhaps even less - of the answers to the many questions and questions put. I believe that this - and I repeat again - shameful situation must be brought to an end, a situation in complete contempt and in the absence of respect for the Rules of Procedure, the senators and, above all, the citizens. I hope that this will be brought to an end, Mr President. I will continue, insistently, in this battle of mine, but I really hope that it will be brought to an end.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u206	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u207	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u208	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to draw the House's attention to a problem which we have in the Veneto region with regard to reclamation consortia. The 5 Star Movement Council Group has submitted to the Regional Council an immediate question in order to solicit the payment of the credits boasted from the consortiums of reclamation towards the agency Region, obviously for works and services of competence already performed. We are at the paradox that one of the few bodies that does hydrogeological prevention and safety and that makes irrigation, extremely important activities, for which sometimes, unfortunately, we find ourselves crying because of misfortunes, being our territory extremely vulnerable from the hydrogeological point of view, has difficulty to continue its normal activity due to lacked payments. We would not like a certain policy of proclamations, which we denounce at national level, to be spread also at regional level. Reclamation consortia are very important bodies for the security of the territory. Irrigation is an equally important activity, so it is necessary that, in this case, the Veneto Region succeeds in honouring its debts to that entity. Of course, it is regrettable that the continuous state cuts to the regions put the regions in difficulty and that, in the fall, there are a whole series of negative consequences. A year ago I made an intervention concerning a misfortune due to a sudden flood resulting from abundant rains; I would not, even in a dream, have to repeat myself. I hope that the Veneto Region will do its utmost to honour its debts to the Venetian reclamation consortia. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u209	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u210	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u211	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, in many countries of the world - and also in Italy - some people suffer serious discrimination only because they love another person; a love discriminated only because it is between two people of the same sex. In many countries of the world, gay pride challenges the desired legal oblivion in which same sex couples are relegated, and this also happens in Italy. In this brief speech, I ask the Senate of the Republic to remember Shira Banki, stabbed to death at the age of sixteen, last Thursday, during the gay pride of Jerusalem. Shira died at the hands of the same terrorists - and to call them such was the Premier of Israel - Jewish extremists, linked to religious-messianic fringes, who attacked and burned the house in Duma where the eighteen-month-old Palestinian baby died. Colleagues, I think the best thing to commemorate this young life is to read the words of Shira's parents, hoping that on hatred and terror love, respect and dignity triumph and that for all those who love each other and for all couples who love each other, of whatever sex they are composed, especially equality triumphs. Shira's parents said yesterday: "Our Shira was killed, because she was a happy 16-year-old, full of life and love, who wanted to express her support for the right of her friends to live as they freely believed. Our family - and I think the Senate - expresses hope for a world with less hatred and more tolerance. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator Pelino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u212	Thank you, Senator Cirinna, the Presidency supports your condolences: given the symbolic value of your speech, I would have done so at the beginning of the sitting, when there were perhaps more people present.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u213	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u214	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u215	CUOMO (PD). Mr President, a few days ago the Chamber's Production Committee approved an amendment to the draft competition law aimed at putting an end to one of the most hateful discriminatory and vexatory practices towards the South of the country, that is, both RC car tariffs, which has always, on the same contractual conditions and virtuousness of motorists, of claims and of all the variables that make up the tariff, are more expensive for an Italian citizen resident in the Mezzogiorno. I use this unfortunate case to point out that at last, thanks to the commitment of the Government, which accepted an amendment of mine in this matter committing itself to include it in the draft competition law under discussion in the Chamber, we are on the way to eliminate it definitively because it represents a dramatic example of how the Mezzogiorno of Italy has been treated during these decades as a territory that, by nature, should enjoy less rights, protections and attention from the State. No whining, Mr President, but a bitter and bleak consideration before the episode such as the one quoted that measures how much the citizens of South Italy have paid duty in economic terms and dignity for the only geographical and historical element. This is not the first time that the SVIMEZ has launched an alarm cry in the South. For years now, in the annual reports of the Association for the Industrial Development of the Mezzogiorno, there has been talk of drift towards underdevelopment and of a South that risks desertification, with young people migrating for lack of work and opportunity and an increasingly old resident population. But the comparison proposed this year in the anticipations of the 2015 report, which relates to Greece, which, although on the verge of failure, grows in thirteen years twice as much as our Mezzogiorno, makes us well the measure of a drama over which too many governments have closed their eyes, thinking of solving all with ordinary policies or, worse, washing their hands with the excuse of the inefficiency of the southern ruling classes. No one, much less I want to deny the responsibility of local politics, but in a country that sees all the major centers of economic, financial, political, industrial and editorial power concentrated in the North the voice of the South and its citizens comes increasingly weak, even in this House. Many now seem to have an annoying background noise. Let's talk about that South, let's remember, that even in great difficulty, it welcomes with humanity more refugees than are willing to welcome the rich regions in the North. The example of Lampedusa and Sicily is a punch in the face of all discriminatory and racist rhetoric. The comparison with Greece makes it clear that the Mezzogiorno, which is experiencing the seventh consecutive year of recession, would already have failed for a long time if it were a state of its own. Today, however, we have an extraordinary opportunity. All the governors of the South Regions are of the center-left and in line with government policy. This is an opportunity to put in place a unified strategy involving national government and local administrations in a single effort. This is a challenge that history proposes to this Parliament and to the party to which I honour to belong and to those coalitions that support this Government and that must first and foremost be with the weakest, the poorest, those who have no work, those who have no home and future. If my party wants to meet these people, it only has to take a train and get off under Rome. You'll find too many.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u216	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u217	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u218	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, a few days ago Mr Piero Scatigna had been sleeping in the car for about nine months, forcedly separated from his wife and daughters of ten and eight years, in the indifference of the Municipality of Lecce. I also talked about this last week here in this House. Today comes another heartbreaking request for help, accompanied by a moving letter, in which Mrs. L. C. - I don't say the name out of respect - of sixty-three years tells of a life of great suffering, of a dead son only twenty years after a kidney transplant surgery, of the transfer of the family to Lecce where the problems are far from finished: occasional and unpaid jobs, numerous evictions and increasing family tensions that led to the end of the marriage. Many requests for assignments of a popular accommodation submitted by the lady who, for one reason or another, have not yet been successful. In the last year the lady lived in an apartment of just 50 square meters with her daughter and niece, but on August 8 she will return her daughter's companion and she will have to leave: being a guest and not to disturb and safeguard her human dignity, the road is preferable. If nothing should change, Mrs L. C. will have to sleep in a car, a disturbing prospect for a sixty-three-year-old woman next August 8. "I go to the Home Office," says Mrs. L. C., "and they tell me that they are stuck because of the ongoing investigations, but they are always stuck. And to think that there are so many walled houses in Lecce. I feel alone - continues in tears - I only have a little dog that is my whole life; I prefer him to mess with all the people I have met. I beg you, help me! The lawyer Stefano Gallotta, secretary of Codice Lecce, an association committed to the protection of citizens, with particular reference to the most defenceless and marginalized persons: We continue to write to local institutions, to launch appeals that fall into the void. But what are they waiting for at the Municipality of Lecce? Extreme gestures to express your grief? Citizens in these situations need only one thing: to feel that the institutions are concretely present, without making pathetic excuses. Paradoxically, Rome talks about these situations. President Mattarella talked about it and also sent an e-mail to say that he is present. Lecce shut up. What are we waiting for, Mayor of Lecce Paolo Perrone? Are we really waiting for extreme gestures? Do not consider these individuals numbers, much less likely vows: consider them as human persons in need and who nevertheless have the right to have respect and dignity. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u219	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u220	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u221	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the other day - last Saturday - I was faced with a quite impressive circumstance, with the sight of any citizen. I went to the newsstand to buy the newspaper "The province of Varese" and outside the newsstand there was the poster of the newspaper itself that reported the following news: "Profugees in the Province: for someone it is a business " (This which I show is not a political manifesto, but the poster of the newspaper "The Province of Varese"). I was intrigued and went to read the article, which reports the interviews made by some persons responsible for reception centres (let's call them so) for those who are called refugees, but who, in reality, we know are asylum seekers, that is illegal immigrants. In the specific case, a very simple scenario emerges. According to this article, talking to the operators of the sector we discover that at least 80-90 percent of the resources coming from Rome translate into wealth circulated on the territory between rentals of the real estate, cleaning companies, laundry buying food and clothing, personnel employed in various ways, from the custody to the kitchen, the induced reception is remarkable. The Katiusha Balansino cooperative is an example of this and the Exodus cooperative in Gallarate is also mentioned. It comes to a total quantified in 10 million euros per year of business for the management of illegal immigrants in the Province of Varese. It is clear that a perverse mechanism has been set in motion, so that, like the reception professionals themselves, this becomes an opportunity at a time when the economic crisis leaves people out of work at home. Mr President, I have a provocative but serious reflection: what is the difference between the hullers who charge to bring these people to the other side of the Mediterranean and the hullers who, here on land, take the money to manage them? The difference that is created is that between Italian citizens - retired, elderly and disinherited, to whom the State does not pay any attention - and those who benefit from 10 million euros, who are spent even creating an ideal substrate of customers. In fact the cooperatives make agreements directly with the prefectures that take the money directly from the Ministry of the Interior, neglecting however in detail two details. Firstly, that the money is the same as the money that no longer goes to the municipalities and, secondly, the problems that are created by the presence of illegal immigrants on the territory (whether it be the costs of health management, rather than the underworld) are further spillovers to the detriment of our balances within the communities. Mr President, this is not happening. We with our mayors are opposed to these situations and this poster and this newspaper article tell us once again that the path taken by the government is wrong, because a business is fed on this type of situation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u222	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u223	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u224	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, the protection of workers' health must always be put first. I hope that from Minister Poletti and Minister Guidi will come as soon as possible answers to my question 4-04352 of 23 July 2015, which concerns asbestos at AnsaldoBreda in Pistoia, which, as a company symbol of Italian excellence, is the flagship of the railway sector, has become a simple European branch of the Japanese company Hitachi. Among the plants present on the national territory, sold in the agreement signed with Hitachi, there is the factory precisely in Pistoia, historically one of the most important industrial realities of the country, from which, for example, the Frecciarossa 1000 has come out, considered the most beautiful train in the world. In my question, I ask the Poletti and Guidi ministers for answers on the many dark points of this affair. The sale was handled by CEO Mauro Moretti of Finmeccanica, who sold the company for 36 million euros, practically a price equal to that of two good Serie A football players. Thanks to this, he managed to have a bonus of 797,000 euros, which are added to his annual salary, which amounts to about 1.3 million euros, cents plus, cents minus. Moretti, at the time when the sale to Hitachi was decided, was aware of the potentialities and criticalities present in the Pistoia plant, including the unsolved asbestos node. The managing director of appointment renziana boasts in his curriculum a long stay as trade unionist of the CGIL, happens to the summits of the Ferrovie dello Stato: also for this, he should have shown greater sensitivity on the question of asbestos in a plant where the trains are built. The critical points concern both the difficulties that workers encounter to have a full recognition of the biological damage as well as specific aspects concerning the history of the company, such as what happened for the removal of the roof cover in eternity of the plant. I would remind the House that, as the workers themselves testified, the work was carried out without interruption of the normal production cycle and without workers being equipped with the minimum protective equipment, which is useful to prevent damage to health, and above all without being informed of the real danger of exposure to asbestos dust. In July 2014, twenty-three years later, at the end of the roof replacement work, in the analyses carried out, they would be found in quantities exceeding the statutory limits of amosite fibres, material specifically used for roof insulation and also an excavation carried out in one of the inner yards detected the presence of asbestos fibres. All this confirms that, having never been carried out any full reclamation operation, environmental pollution cannot be considered to have ceased. Therefore, workers who have continued to operate in this environment should still be considered as potentially exposed. In this regard, I would ask the Ministers concerned to take note of this as soon as possible, quickly recovering the total disinterest of these long years.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u225	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-496.ana.u226	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, August 4, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 9 p.m.
