ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 12 March.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u4	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] We waited a quarter of an hour: do we repeat the verification? We already had a quorum. I invite the Senator Secretary to re-examine whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u8	The Conference of Leaders approved by a majority changes and additions to the current timetable and the new timetable until 9 April. This afternoon, the draft law on short divorce will continue to be examined. At tomorrow's afternoon sitting, beginning at 9 a.m., the President of the Council of Ministers will make communications on the European Council on 19 and 20 March. For the subsequent debate, the timing was divided between the Groups. This week's calendar also provides for the examination of the decree-law on the reform of popular banks and, at the sitting of Thursday 19, the report on the draft law on corruption. If there are no arguments prepared for consideration by the House tomorrow afternoon, the relevant space will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. Next week the Assembly will meet again from Tuesday morning 24 March to follow the decree-law of reform of popular banks and bill of law in the matter of corruption, as well as for the examination of the bill in the matter of identification of members of the Forces of the Order. On Thursday afternoon, 26 March, the question time will take place with the Minister for Public Administration and Simplification. In the week from 31 March to 2 April the following draft laws will be examined: reorganisation of public administrations, where concluded by the Commission; regulation of personal protective measures; simplification of the agricultural sector. At the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 1 April, the Council's proposal for parliamentary elections and immunities on the authorisation to proceed for ministerial crimes against former Minister Matteoli will be discussed in accordance with the procedures laid down in Rule 135 bis of the Rules of Procedure. The calendar of the week from 7 to 9 April provides for the possible follow-up of the topics not concluded; ratifications of international agreements; the resolution of the 14th Permanent Commission on the projection of European policies in the Mediterranean; documents defined by the Junta of parliamentary elections and immunities; motions, respectively, on the rationalization plan of Poste Italiane SpA, on the promotion of culture against the ill-treatment of animals, on initiatives against the economic and social crisis of Sardinia. In the afternoon session on Thursday 9 April the question time will take place. The timetable can be supplemented with an information from the Government on issues related to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u9	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following additions to the program of the Senate's work for the months January, February and March 2015: - Drawing of law no. 1577 - Reorganization of public administrations (collected to the financial maneuver) (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of law no. 1232-B - Changes to the code of criminal procedure in the matter of personal protective measures. Amendments to Law No 354 of 26 July 1975 on visits to persons with disabilities in a serious situation (adopted by the Chamber of Deputies, amended by the Senate and again amended by the Chamber of Deputies) - Draft Law No 1328 - Provisions on the simplification, rationalization and agricultural competitiveness of the agricultural, agri-food and fisheries sector (linked to the public finance manoeuvre) (Contributed to the financial maneuver) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u10	At the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted by a majority - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments and additions to the current timetable and the new timetable for work until 9 April: [[Tuesday, March 17 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Following bill 1504 and related - Short divorce (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the European Council of 19 and 20 March 2015 (Wednesday 18, 9 a.m.) - Draft law n. 1813 - Decree-Law n. 3, reform Popular banks (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (It falls on 25 March) - Draft law n. 19 and related - Rules on corruption (Report) Wednesday 18 " ant. h. 9-13 " " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 19 " ant. h. 9,30-14]] Amendments to bill No 1813 (Decree-Reform Law - Popular Banks) should be tabled by 1 p.m. on Wednesday 18 March. Amendments to bill No 19 and related (Corruption Rules) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Friday 20 March. Parliament is convened at 3 p.m. on Thursday 19 March for the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court. The timetable can be supplemented with an information from the Government on issues related to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. [[Tuesday 24 March ant. h. 11-13 - Follow-up to bill n. 1813 - Decree-Law n. 3, reform of popular banks (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Exceeded on 25 March) - Follow-up to bill n. 19 and related - Rules in the matter of corruption - Drawing of law n. 803 - Identification belonging to Forces of Order (made by the Mixed Group pursuant to article 53, paragraph 3, of the Regulation) " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Wednesday 25 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 26 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 26 March pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister for Public Administration and Simplification]] The deadline for tabling amendments to bill No 803 (identification belonging to the Forces of Order) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. [[Tuesday 31 March pom. h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 1577 - Reorganisation of Public Administrations (Ove concluded by the Commission) (Linked to the financial maneuver) (Final vote with the presence of the quorum) - Drawing of law n. 1232-B - Personal protective measures (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies, modified by the Senate and again modified by the Chamber of Deputies) - Doc. IV- bis, n. 1 - Proposal of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to grant permission to proceed for ministerial offences against former Minister Matteoli and other co-indicates (Wednesday 1, ant.) (*) - Drawing of law n. 1328 - Simplification of the agricultural sector (Linked to the financial maneuver) (Final vote with the presence of the quorum) Wednesday 1 April ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 2 " ant. h. 9,30-14]] The deadline for tabling amendments to Law No 1577 (Reorganisation of Public Administrations) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. Amendments to draft law No 1232-B (Personal protective measures) and No 1328 (Simplification of the agricultural sector) should be tabled by 5 p.m. on Thursday 26 March. (*) The Assembly shall vote only if proposals are made to refuse authorization to proceed. In this case the vote will take place by simultaneous roll-call vote, without immediate announcement of the result, at the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 1 April. Senators who have not taken part in the vote will be able to communicate their clear vote to the Secretary Senators who will take note of it in appropriate minutes. Voting will be closed at 7 p.m. During the interval between the two sessions, the minutes will be kept by the Secretary Senators. [[Tuesday, April 7 pom. h. 16.30-20 - Possible follow-up of unfinished topics - Ratifications of international agreements - Doc. XXIV, n. 40 - Resolution of the 14th Permanent Commission on the projection of European policies in the Mediterranean - Documents defined by the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity - Motion n. 384, Crosio, on the rationalization plan of Poste Italiane SpA - Motion n. 258, Amati, on the promotion of culture against the ill-treatment of animals - Motion n. 378, Uras, on initiatives against the economic and social crisis of Sardinia Wednesday 8 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 9 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 9 April pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure]] Time distribution for discussion on communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 19 and 20 March 2015 (2 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 2 hours, of which: PD 29' FI-PdL XVII 19' M5S 14' AP (NCD-UDC) 14' Mixed 13' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 11' LN-Aut 10' GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI) 10' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No. 1813 (Decree-Law No. 3, reform of popular banks) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 12' FI-PdL XVII 47' M5S 36' AP (NCD-UDC) 36' Mixed 32' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 27' LN-Aut 26' GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI) 26' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1577 (Reorganisation of general government) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, including: PD 1 h. 40' FI-PdL XVII 1 h. 5' M5S 50' AP (NCD-UDC) 50' Mixed 45' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 37' LN-Aut 36' GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI) 36' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1328 (Simplification of the agricultural sector) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, including: PD 1 h. 40' FI-PdL XVII 1 h. 5' M5S 50' AP (NCD-UDC) 50' Mixed 45' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 37' LN-Aut 36' GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI) 36' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u13	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to speak because at the conference of group leaders we once again adopted the timetable by majority because, as usual, it seems that we are playing a little game on the anti-corruption bill. In fact, in the calendar, it is written that the provision will be incardinated Thursday morning with the sole report and then is postponed, essentially to give space to the Government to approve the bill on banks. If we are still at this point and are not yet able to understand that the absolute priority of this country is to approve the reform (in fact, reform is the word in everyone's mouth), or rather, the rules on anti-corruption means that we are not put well. That is why we asked at the Conference of Leaders - and we continue to do so now - to work on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays, because it seems to us the least that this Senate, representing the citizens, does something in their exclusive interest and that, therefore, finally, after two years, it will make law or at least send to the House the anti-corruption measure. We can only reiterate this also in the light of what happened yesterday and there is no need to continue to talk about the news, which, as always, surpasses politics. So, for once, do we want to be the vanguard instead of always chasing others with short breath? The government has taken a lifetime to present the famous amendments, in particular the one on the false budget that so many stomachaches create between one side of this Chamber; so do we finally want to intervene and have the Senate dismiss this anti-corruption rule? We ask you to come to work, no more. We ask you to come to work on Friday, Saturday and Sunday to approve this bill before the decree-law on banks, because Italians are interested in solving this problem. I do not want to remind you once again of the words of President Mattarella, before whom you all applauded and your hands made red (and perhaps the last thing you have red remained those hands). [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So you want to wake up? Do we all want to do this together for once? The whole Senate, do we want to give this country serious anti-corruption rules that really fight corruption? Let's come work and do it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u16	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, as my fellow Members may have noticed, once again one of the draft laws which, according to the Rules of Procedure, had been scheduled for submission by the oppositions, which dealt with the identification of the Forces of Order, have slipped forward in time for the umpteenth time; and from week to week months are passing away. The Government in the person of the Minister of the Interior constantly asks for referrals and does not come to the Commission, instead of taking responsibility for a position of its own; it continues to act as an ostrich, to be fugitive and not to come to the Commission by simply adopting the slip technique which, as you can see, Mr President, is perfectly successful because the bill in our calendar continues to be postponed. Compared with the proposal of the majority of the Group Leaders, I am in favour of another proposal which I have already put forward this morning at the meeting of the Group Leaders. You have foreseen that tomorrow afternoon's sitting will not be held to give time to the Commissions to work, in particular the Commission Justice for the draft anti-corruption law and the decree-law on popular banks. Mr President, I think that the two things can be reconciled, because the risk of the proposed timetable that you have made is that not only will there be no Wednesday, but it may not even be held on Thursday morning, and this could be a danger. We propose that motions should be brought forward only as incardination and in this case the motion which Senator Uras sees as the first signatory, the motion proposed by the League on the reorganization of the post offices of the Municipalities; and I also call for the motion on culture against the mistreatment of animals to be brought forward. In this way some very 'heavy' amendments tabled to the Commission which introduce decriminalisation even in the event of the killing of animals of the protected fauna may be stopped with the discussion of motions. The fact is that there are very serious things that happen where someone is involved in spreading culture against ill-treatment and others in the Commission are doing something different. Therefore, we could anticipate tomorrow's sitting at 4 p.m., incardinating these three motions, and then quietly resume the work of the Commissions. I think that moving an hour and a half would be no problem. Mr President, I say this clearly: the timetable, including the draft anti-corruption law, has changed in fact. In fact, the previous timetable provided for this bill to come to the House even if it was not concluded in the Commission, while today it is expected that it will have to come with the report, so if Thursday is not ready it means that it will once again slide. So the change in facts is there. At this point, our proposal allows us to carry out very important motions and, at the same time, to resume the work of the Commissions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u19	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, the North-League Group also calls for motions to be scheduled for tomorrow's afternoon sitting. The Lega Nord Group holds, in particular, on the motion concerning the rationalization plan of Poste Italiane SpA. We would like to thank all the Groups which accepted our Parent Company's proposal to be able to deal with this important motion on the Post Office in this House, but, Mr President, it is too late to do so in the week of 7 to 9 April, because on 13 April - less than a week later - the rationalization plan for Post Office will come into force, which provides for the closure of 455 post offices and the rationalization, i.e. the reduction of opening hours, of the branches of 609 other post offices. This is a unilateral decision by Poste Italiani, which has not been concerted with the mayors of the municipalities concerned. Mr President, the Northern League can understand the rationalization plan of the Italian Post Office (we are for the spending review), but the constraints that Italian Post Office has respected in terms of Agcom's resolution see greatly penalize the post offices of our suburbs, of our fractions, in particular those of the Mountain Municipalities, where there is no efficient public transport; in the near future, this transport will be even more inefficient, because of the continuous cuts that the Government assigns to the territorial authorities. Our elders will not be able to deal with the handhelds that will be equipped with the letter holders, because they do not have an ATM or credit card to pay for the newsletters. For these and other reasons, we associate ourselves with the request of the Holding Company of the Mixed Group to anticipate tomorrow afternoon the discussion of the motions, starting from what concerns the rationalization plan of Poste Italiane SpA. Finally, since another request from our Parent Company was received at the Conference of Leaders, to hear the Minister for Public Works, Mr Lupi, we ask you to speed up this information and, if anything, to schedule it at tomorrow's afternoon sitting. In fact, what has happened and which has touched on the heads of the Ministry of Public Works requires that this issue be dealt with absolutely urgently by the Assembly of the Senate [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u20	We greet the students, teachers and companions of the Institute of Higher Education Carlo Pisacane in Sapri, in the province of Salerno, who follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u23	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, I too have a request to change the timetable, if possible: I would like Mr Lupi to be called to the Chamber immediately to report on the events which affect him and I would like the information to be scheduled as early as tomorrow afternoon, immediately. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr President, I would also ask you to take care of the proposal to start working on the Senate in a different way: from Monday afternoons, all Tuesdays and Wednesday mornings, the Commissions, including the bicamerals, work from Wednesday afternoons until Friday mornings, the House works on all votes. I think we'd get greater effectiveness and efficiency than this Senate. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u24	The Heads of Groups will, if necessary, make this further proposal at the Conference of the Leaders and, if there is a majority, we will be able to accept it. With regard to the information of Minister Lupi, who is also requested by Senator Arrigoni, it is still necessary to contact the Minister to investigate his availability. He will inform us as soon as possible on this point. I put to the vote the proposal to modify the calendar put forward by Senator Cioffi, which provides for the examination of the bill anti-corruption on Friday, Saturday and Sunday. It's not approved. AIROLA (M5S). You made us spend the night with the electoral law! I put to the vote the proposal to change the calendar put forward by Senators De Petris and Arrigoni, aimed at anticipating the afternoon session on Wednesday 18 March for the discussion of the scheduled motions for the week from 7 to 9 April. It's not approved. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] GAETTI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u25	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1504, 82, 811, 1233 and 1234. I would remind you that the general debate ended in the afternoon sitting on 12 March. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I begin by thanking all those who took part in the very serious and in-depth debate which took place in previous sittings. First of all, however, I would like to reassure those present, also on the basis of the considerations put forward. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u27	Is it possible to hear the reply? Please.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u28	FILIPPIN, rapporteur. Thank you, Mr President, for calling for silence also because, let me say a joke out of reply: this is a so-called ethically sensitive issue, on which, at least in theory, there are no indications of party or group, which means that every senator in this House should decide solely on the basis of his conscience and, perhaps, paying attention to what is said might be useful to the decision. With the bill under consideration, we are not deciding whether or not to introduce divorce. The theme of the indissolubility of marriage was already resolved in 1970, providing for divorce. The objective of the Senate Act 1504 is to reduce the minimum necessary and mandatory separation times before submitting the divorce application. In the choice of time the freedom and responsibility of the parties, of the people are valued. The legislature of 1970 had identified a very rigid system, because at the time the discussion on the indissolubility of marriage had resulted in a strict control by the public of the State over the will of the parties, but in the meantime the situation has changed, the times, marriages and families have changed. The legislator must take note of this and ask himself this simple question today: do the long time to arrive from separation to divorce serve to foster reconciliation, to resolve the conflict? They help the family? I don't want to go into numbers like someone else did: I merely observe the following: out of the 93,787 separations proposed in 2012, only 5499 closed with a reconciliation, with a 5% percentage. But this is not important either, as it is not important how many couples go from separation to divorce. This is also a decision that must be put to the freedom and responsibility of the parties, in this case of the citizens. The data tells us that long time doesn't help the family. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The empty time between a separation and a divorce - excuse me if I quote Senator De Biasi, who is not in the Chamber, but I will not mention it anyway - is a period of time full of fear, uncertainty, blackmail, lawyers that cost. It is a time that does not allow people to choose to change their lives, to open a new project of life even emotional. They are traumatic blocks and the longer the time is the more it can be filled by the ghosts of failure. That is why it has been decided to reduce the time. That is why it was decided, at first reading in the Chamber of Deputies, that the original five-year term, reduced by the legislator to three, with this bill being further reduced to six months in the case of consensual and to months in the case of judicial. In this way, in fact, the freedom and responsibility of the spouses is placed at the centre. In the matter of separation and divorce the legislator has intervened several times over time. He also intervened with the recent introduction of assisted negotiation and so-called easy divorce before the judicial officer. Did we loosen the fierce public control over the lives and rights of the people who got married? Yeah, we've loosened it, we can't deny it. However, we have given greater evidence to the freedom and responsibility of people. I think that's good. I wonder whether citizens have the right or not to live their marriage life with fullness and freedom, as well as the end of their marriage relationship. The flexibility of the control and management measures of the marriage crisis is equivalent to designing a dress tailored to people and in this case to couples. A way to give a tailored response to the crises and to the many human and personal cases that are necessarily different and therefore need different tools to facilitate their control and management. I said just now that the 1970 legislator had, of course, given a rigid approach. But that legislator had already introduced direct divorce. I would like to make it clear to those present - even if few listen to me, but at least it will remain a trace in the shorthand - that Article 3 of the 1970 law already provides for a whole series of direct divorce hypotheses. We weren't introducing anything new. Let us make a concrete case: if a man tries to kill a woman, does that woman, his wife, have to wait three years to ask for separation? No, you can request a divorce immediately. Direct divorce, however, is foreseen in three other cases outside personal situations, which are the transcription of the divorce judgment obtained abroad, the marriage not consumed or the correction of sex. These, alone, are already hypotheses of direct divorce. The Senate Justice Commission introduced the famous paragraph 2 of Article 1, i.e. direct divorce, without separation. Why did you do that? I would like, at least this time, to deny the name "easy" given to him, or rather, that of "divorce" in twenty-four hours. First, the Senate Justice Commission... [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] Someone in this House has said that direct divorce is either Las Vegas-style or 24 hours: let me say that it is at least a questionable definition. For what reason? Direct divorce introduced by the Senate Justice Commission is a judicial remedy which is an alternative to the other procedures introduced by assisted negotiation and so-called easy divorce before the judicial officer. That is to say, it requires in order such a sequence: that the spouses share in the crisis of their marriage; that the spouses share in the agreements and conditions under which their marriage can be resolved; that this agreement be formalized in an appeal; that the appeal be signed; that the appeal be lodged in court; that the court set the hearing of the spouses; that the spouses appear before the President of the court; that the President of the court question them and make an attempt at conciliation; that the divorce be pronounced by a judgment. It is therefore a judicial procedure with all the guarantees that distinguish it: this is the reason why the Senate Justice Commission introduced it in this text, after a long debate that began in June last year - so not the day before - and was very thorough and widely shared. The Commission, in fact, had voted for it by a large majority. However - because, as in all things, there is a "however" - the debate that took place in this House has highlighted by many the need for a further pause for reflection. Doubts have been expressed, but not only: the danger has been represented, or the case, that the maintenance of paragraph 2 of Article 1, i.e. direct divorce, is an obstacle to the rapid approval of the law on short divorce. Now, the short divorce measure - which is why the reduction in the time I mentioned earlier, namely six and twelve months - is required by so many, but very many citizens. It could therefore receive rapid approval from the Chamber of Deputies, since, removed, deleted or put aside paragraph 2 of Article 1, the plant remained essentially the same, the one already provided for by the Chamber, except for a series of modifications and corrections made because required by a good knowledge of the civil procedure, if nothing else. That is the only reason why - and I am announcing it now, even though it is contained in the file - as rapporteur, in violation of the decision of the majority of the Commission, but I must say that I have proposed and will put into question, to the attention of the House and its vote, the proposal to delete paragraph 2 of Rule 1. The only reason I do this is that this allows the direct divorce to acquire an autonomous life and to continue its journey, independently and separately from the short divorce, with the additional reflection that has been requested. Personally, I repeat my personal conviction that this is a useful rule, which complements the reform of divorce legislation. And I am convinced that at least the majority of the Senators of the Democratic Party and also of the Senators of this House are on this line. However, this can be easily demonstrated, if necessary, through the rapid continuation of the draft law on immediate divorce (direct divorce), if this House decides to vote in favour of the proposal to delete it. I repeat that the only reason why I came to the decision to present the proposal for deletion is to quickly achieve the most important result, which is the reduction of the necessary separation times. This comes absolutely first. I would like to make a very brief reference to the opinions on the amendments. I will make a call for withdrawal or an opinion against all the amendments, except on the proposal to delete them. The opinion is opposed to any amendment which, in various ways, extends the time allowed in the Camera system. It is also against the amendments which include a completely different subject in this draft law: the shared trust, which is not the subject of this text. The opinion is opposed to all the amendments which, in some way, envisage and design a sort of "B" marriage, with reduced effects, depending on its duration or the age of the nubendo. This too, unfortunately, has happened to us to read. Of course, I will give my opinion on each amendment at the appropriate time. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Buemi and Repetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u29	I call the representative of the Government. COSTA, Deputy Minister for Justice. I'm quitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would like to say that the Presidency has received, and are distributed, the views expressed by the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u30	Madam President, I have tabled a number of amendments to introduce procedures which seek, with a consensus and a verification of the talks, to contain, as best possible, the failures of marriages, since our institutions, starting with the Constitution and legislation, have given legal importance to marriage. By excluding, therefore, from any religious, moral or ethical assessment, saving marriage is always a priority objective, except then taking note of what are the decisions. There are many concerns about this measure - and we will discuss it later on. The rapporteur has insisted on a number of aspects, but we believe - and our Group will support this - that it has already been a mistake, through other measures, to privatise the institution of marriage which, on the other hand, needs guarantees, even in the courts, precisely because of its legal importance, while the reduction in the time taken to determine divorce is already a legislative trend that has been developed. We started from the five years of separation, when the law was passed, to arrive at a progressive reduction, which is now further reduced. When we speak on the proposal to delete paragraph 2 of Article 1, we will also explain why some of us have signed an amendment to delete that paragraph. We believe that, despite the appearance and presence of the judge, the lack of time restrictions will facilitate, despite the opinion expressed by the rapporteur, instant separation. Given that no one is obliged to contract a marriage according to civil law, its nebulisation is absolutely a wrong choice, because those who are not convinced of contracting this bond can freely lead their lives in the manner they consider most appropriate. Then there can also be an abuse of marriage for lowly ends, to take advantage - for example - of weaker subjects or who can have economic resources. The amendments I have tabled are of a different nature and tend to strengthen procedures aimed at guaranteeing, before establishing divorce, a chance or an opportunity to safeguard marriage. Every marriage that ends is, in fact, a defeat for the ordering and for society and opens disputes and dialectical that, at times, are superior to its own continuation. I reserve the right to speak in an explanation of vote on the individual amendments. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u31	Madam President, I have tabled a number of amendments on the basis of the following reasoning. In the paragraph that introduces direct divorce, without separation and without minimum times, a particular timing is foreseen for cases where there are no minor children. However, there is no provision for the couple to be awaiting a child, i.e. if the woman is pregnant. Starting from this reasoning, I thought that one cannot even impose a mandatory pregnancy test for those who ask for a separation before a year has passed. As a result, I have come to the conclusion that it would be reasonable to provide for a minimum period of one year for everyone. Another point is what I touched on in the amendment 1.0.100, to which the rapporteur referred in negative terms. I realize that probably, as it is written, it would be difficult to apply, and perhaps a discipline would be more appropriate in the various cases where benefits are acquired by the couple or by those who belong to it. My amendment concerns non-tax benefits, in case marriage lasts less than three years. The tax benefits are - for example - the deduction for the dependent spouse, which can be enjoyed during the marriage period and as long as it lasts, rightly and in any case. However, there are other benefits which, with the shortening of time and above all with a very strong reduction in divorce times, as provided for by the text that comes to us from the Commission, without the deletion, could give way to marriages of convenience, aimed, banally, at having a transfer. Leaders of the various branches of the State, from the Armed Forces to other sectors, have admitted that this already happens today, despite the presence of all the current constraints and the term of the three years. This is therefore a problem which cannot be ignored. It is a little too convenient to pass in front of colleagues who have, more or less, the same requirements, but have not contracted a marriage of convenience. If a person marries a person in the city where he wants to be transferred, by private agreement and maybe paying something under the table, and then within a few days the union can be cancelled, meanwhile all the others are "fregates," that is, all those who, having not made a marriage of convenience, do not have the opportunity to get the transfer or to have extra points in a contest. It is undoubtedly a complex discipline which, as it is, cannot actually be addressed. I would add that, if the deletion were to pass or if the paragraph introducing the immediate divorce is rejected, there is no more matter of contending, at least with regard to unions that last less than a year. And so, I would like to say now - and I will repeat this - that I would like to turn Amendment 1.0.100 into an agenda that commits to studying methods to avoid marriages of convenience, a phenomenon that already exists today and, let alone the maximum limit of three years of separation - which actually becomes about three and a half years for bureaucratic work - was reduced to zero, or almost. Even the reduction to one year undoubtedly increases these risks. That is why I would ask that we consider the agenda which I shall present and which I shall draw up in detail, so that the rapporteur and the representative of the Government can express a conscious opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u32	Madam President, I would like to start by reminding you that a few months ago, after a work involving the whole of Parliament, we arrived at converting a decree-law that in some way "facilitated" the procedures for divorce and separation, and that the People's Area Group also voted in the end. In fact, we felt that we had done a positive job in relation to the starting points of that measure by imposing, for example, in any case, in the presence of children, judicial protection, i.e. an endorsement by a prosecutor or, in any case, by a judge. We have also voted on the proposal that allows the childless couple to go to the mayor to obtain, after a month of postponement, rethinking, the decision. Senator Caliendo, you are surprised why, a few months ago, we voted on the principle that the mayor can take action within a month and that we now have concerns about the so-called immediate divorce or - as we call it - trial marriage. Senator Caliendo, there is no contradiction. When we voted to convert that decree-law, which provided for the mayor's intervention, we were in a regime that, from the moment of the separation sanctioned by the mayor until the divorce, still provided for two years. Now, however, we are being proposed, unless the deletion takes place, that divorce should become immediate, that is something quite different from the perspective proposed at the time, and that of course aggravates the objections that Senator Caliendo had made to us. So I think we need to be serious about some aspects that have emerged in the general discussion. It is true - and I say this to the President of the Commission - that immediate divorce is provided for in our law: when one of the spouses is sentenced to life imprisonment, i.e. to a sentence of more than fifteen years and to any prison sentence for the exploitation and aiding of prostitution, for the voluntary murder of a child or for attempted murder to the detriment of the spouse and the child. It is clear that the legislator had originally considered those cases so serious that he could directly access the divorce. Here, however, we are talking about a different case: divorce takes place simply because the two spouses want to divorce, period and that's it. And the logic of the five years, of the three years and now of the six months and twelve months is precisely to give a minimum - attention - of application for compensation between separation and divorce. I remember for the umpteenth time that we have hundreds of thousands of cases - just go to the associations of separated and divorced fathers and mothers - in which even after the divorce, unfortunately, for several years, continues a terrible conflict, especially on children, that does not stop at the time of divorce; indeed, many times it gets complicated when to a first marriage another is added, and maybe that also fails. This is the picture we have before us and we have said from the beginning - we have said it to the House and we repeat it to the Senate - that we were absolutely not opposed to the shortening of the times. We did not claim that the three-year period should be maintained; indeed, we said that we were doing well to shorten the period from three years to twelve months, in case of conflict, and from three years to six months, in case of consensus. What we have proposed in the Commission is only a shorter period of time, which differentiates cases according to whether or not there are minor children. It seems to us, in fact, a reasonable consideration to believe that an account is if a husband and a wife are separated (there are only two), and another account is if a husband and a wife are separated, who also have responsibilities to their children. For this reason, throughout the debate that took place in the Commission, we have supported our idea of slightly varying, to give a signal, the time between separation and divorce depending on whether or not there were children. It is true, Mr President, that some mention had been made in the Commission, but the time had been used in that House to understand whether it should differentiate between families with or without children. The final decision so controversial to arrive at a trial marriage, or immediate divorce, was something absolutely innovative, so to speak a lightning to heaven. And it was to the point of not even giving time to the Commission and Parliament to put a minimum of order between the regime still in force of marriage, divorce, separation, engagement and the promise of marriage (whose break, in our system, even requires compensation for the damage and the return of gifts and, therefore, it is still an institution that has its pregnance) and the new institutions that we have introduced into the system. By virtue of these innovations, the mayor can dissolve the marriage; lawyers can agree with the parties with a new procedure; and these new procedures are introduced, in turn, in a fascistellation that has not allowed and does not allow to give an organic reform to the institution of marriage. We need to understand, therefore, whether there is the deletion and also the desire to bring back to the Commission, for reflection, the aspect of children. It is not true, in fact, that the European countries all go in the direction of throwing marriages in the air with great ease: I have already said in this House, and I do not want to repeat, that in some European countries such as England, in the presence of minor children, there are obligations of conciliation and mediation that last several months, and even more than a year, before allowing couples to divorce, and let us speak of England, of a very civilized country. If this is deleted, then it aims to return to the Commission, in order to make a comprehensive reflection on these institutions, and also to pose the problem of dealing differently with the subject, with institutions that accompany couples with respect to the trauma related to children for the celebration of divorce, it will be used in an optimal way to find solutions and to differentiate the various cases. From this point of view, our amendments, which took effect from six months to one year and from twelve months to eighteen months, will also be brought back to the Commission in the light of a proposal for a sensible cut in time, if this is deleted. We are also willing to withdraw them with a view to doing a job in the Commission, which will lead, however, to a contextual and comprehensive revisitation of these institutions and above all - and this is something we will never tire of saying - to the introduction into the system of institutions that are able to accompany the family and, above all, to avoid the minor children being traumatized by divorce or separation for a long time, even after the divorce itself. If there is such a will and Parliament will accept this indication, we are available - as we did for the decree-law on the so-called easy divorce - to find a compromise that is not convenient but high, that gives an answer not only to the need to review this institute, but also not to "brain" totally and not to transform marriage into something banal, comparable - as Senator Gasparri said - to a glass of water to drink: in short, something that induces the people who prepare it and conclude it to reflect little, since, if you marry on Sunday, already on Monday you can start to do divorce practices. This frankly seems excessive to us and, therefore, we will support the proposal to delete it. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u33	Madam President, I would actually like to make only a few telegraphic notes, because I share a great deal of what has been said by my fellow Members who have preceded me, particularly by my fellow Members, Mr Gasparri, Mr Malan and Mr Giovanardi. The meaning of my amendments is very simple: on the one hand, to safeguard and, on the other hand, to encourage the public relevance of marriage; on the other hand, to focus on the positive fact that it is the family and, therefore, to remember that the time and money that the State invests in order to allow a time for reflection are not so much an outrage on the conditions of difficulty that two spouses live, but rather to make themselves available, according to the same sense that institutions must have, which are guarantors and not masters of the lives of the people, so that that experience attempted together can remain in time. In this sense, I believe, therefore, that giving space to a greater time of reflection and returning to say that marriage is a fact of public importance, which affects the life of society and supports our economy and the dignity of the State, is however the perspective to be given to this provision.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u34	Madam President, I have tabled a proposal for an amendment which basically has a concept in itself. It starts from the assumption that each of us is by nature a conflicting being, as it is at the same time a physical, rational and emotional being. And, therefore, in a certain sense, with time it must harmonize its dimensions and, when it makes this experience of diversity through marriage, it completes a path that obviously, being the conflicting man - as we have said - will certainly have periods of crisis. I therefore wondered what role the State should have, without prejudice to giving the possibility to each individual to express himself freely. On the other hand, however, very often the individual, even if he is of age, can make mistakes and, when we are in times of crisis, even personal and not only of couples - each of us can have them - maybe just talk to a friend. In this case, instead, we are faced with two different realities, which must grow (and each grows in its own world) and then meet. Very often, then, one does not respond to the other and so a crisis arises, and marriage could also cease. There is one particular feature in all this, as I said before, Madam President: should the State do something about this? In Amendment No 1,107, which I simply propose, and on tiptoe, I make sure that the judge, after hearing the parties, can arrange a short journey, before starting that period which will then see the two spouses completely separate. Sometimes it can be enough - and in this case you need a third to evaluate - simply a word or an expert person to allow the two finally to listen. And perhaps this listening could also help not only the person, but perhaps the two spouses to reconsider. Madam President, I simply ask with this amendment that the State should not give up. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u35	Madam President, Amendment No 1,108 is very simple and - as I have already said to the rapporteur - has above all a purpose of harmonising the draft law with regard to the previous speeches on the same subject. It is a question of assessing whether this amendment is necessary or whether it is merely a drafting problem with regard to the integration of this draft law with the text on which we are now working, which has been amended in the meantime.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u36	Madam President, we take note of the rapporteur's decision to vote against some of the amendments we have proposed. I believe that, rather than opposing it, we could talk about inadmissibility because of the unevenness of matter. We have tabled a number of amendments which we consider to be very important. While we understand that the matter of custody of minors in the event of separation and divorce does not strictly concern the article contained in the draft law, which speaks instead of timing on separation and divorce, we wanted to urge or in any case invite the Assembly to consider the issue concerning the methods of custody of minors in the case of separation and divorce, considering that they are the really weakest and fragile part in a moment of marital crisis. We call for our amendments, which have been tabled on the basis of a draft law presented as the Northern League Group, to be transformed into an agenda, given that they deal with a very sensitive subject and take into account a very important issue at a time of economic crisis, such as the current one, which sees the spouse having to pay contributions for the maintenance of children in very difficult positions. The quantification of the amount of the maintenance contribution is a very sensitive issue. It concerns - on the one hand - the burden and the necessary duty of all to maintain their children, but - on the other hand - important income differences must be taken into account, so as not to leave the magistrate so wide a discretion that it can sometimes create situations which, in compliance with the law, are of justice, but which can, however, prove to be an injustice. We therefore kindly ask that we be able to turn our amendments into agendas. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u37	The remaining amendments are set out. Colleagues, I warn you that the Presidency, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, declares that amendments 3.0.100 and 3.0.102 cannot be proposed because they contain provisions which are outside the scope of the debate. Amendment 3.0.100 deals with succession discipline, and amendment 3.0.102 deals with the prerequisites for the acquisition of Italian citizenship. Moreover, in accordance with constant practice, the Presidency declares amendment 3.0.103 inadmissible because it concerns a matter which, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 7 of the Constitution, is subject to agreements between the Italian State and the Holy See. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u38	Madam President, I repeat that the opinion is against all the amendments. I would simply point out one issue, which has already been mentioned by Senator Mussini, concerning amendment 1.108: in my assessment, it is already a rule of law, with the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 132 of 2014. This amendment itself is superfluous and that is the reason for my doubt. If necessary, a favourable opinion can be expressed, simply as a rule of coordination with the existing legal text.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u39	Are you in favour of the amendment or are you calling for a withdrawal? FILIPPIN, rapporteur. The rule contained in Senator Mussini's amendment, currently, is already a legal text. So, I'm inviting you to retreat. Simply, we will need to coordinate the text on our examination with Law No. 162 of 2014.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u40	Senator Mussini, do you accept the invitation to withdraw? Where appropriate, it may submit an agenda committing the Government to coordination between the two provisions. MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). I shall withdraw it, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u41	Madam President, the Government is returning to the House on all the amendments tabled to Article 1. On the additional amendments 1.0.100, by Senator Malan, and 1.0.101, by Senator Centinario, there is an invitation to withdraw, while on the others the opinion is opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u42	Therefore, while the rapporteur gave an opinion against all the amendments, the Government returned to the Assembly; the rapporteur also included in her opinion the additional amendments to Article 1 and, therefore, the Government's opinion is in agreement with them. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 01.1. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u45	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, Senator Stefani asked for an assessment by the rapporteur, of course with the Government's consent, of whether two amendments could be put on the agenda. The opposite is true, but in this case these are two amendments which we have asked for to be put on the agenda. I believe that on this subject, which is already sensitive in itself to relations between people, there must be at least acceptance of the agenda for an equalization on the maintenance of the child, so as not to create further margins, which may occur in this case when there are choices to maintain a certain type of one parent. And perhaps, then, we could reason, on the basis of the agenda, on the implementation that the Government could give of the norm in a more concrete sense, in order to arrive at a mitigation of any situations that could arise.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u46	Senator Volpi, are you referring to Amendment 1.0.101? You point exactly at the numbers. STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, the amendments that have become agendas are the 2.0.101... PRESIDENT. Senator, we are voting on the amendments tabled to Article 1. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 01.1, tabled by Senator Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,100, tabled by Senator Fucksia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,101 tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.103.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u49	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, we follow the rapporteur's suggestions, among which there is also, in a few votes, the proposal to delete paragraph 2. With regard specifically to our two amendments, 1,103 and 1,102, I withdraw them by totally agreeing with my colleague Puglia of the 5 Star Movement. I believe that your amendment 1,107, which provides for an active part of the judge, is absolutely serious. It proposes, if there are children, even in the times that will be shortened - let us not make it a matter of an hour more or less - that it may be six months or a year, that there is a serious possibility of taking a path that is not a Calvary, that lasts years and years of quarrels and conflict between the two spouses who want to separate or can be reconciled, but a serious accompaniment to avoid the consequences of this trauma. I have heard some colleagues quoting foreign countries as victory bulletins, where year after year there are many cases of marriage failure, while I believe - as Catalano said - it is better that marriages work in the interests of children rather than failing. That seems pretty obvious to me. We therefore withdraw Amendments Nos 1,103 and 1,102, taking into account Parliament's commitment - as I have said - to a comprehensive review of the whole matter, which is somewhat confused by the fact that rules have been laid down. Special attention, as is the case in so many European countries, must be given to the institutions for conciliation, mediation and accompaniment - let us call them as we wish - that they take particular account of these cases when there are interests of minors to protect and, sometimes, even the weakest part of the two spouses.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u50	Amendments 1,103 and 1,102 are therefore withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.7 tabled by Senator Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Gasparri to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1,104. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Mauro Mario to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1.105. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,106 tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 1,107, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Would the rapporteur like to withdraw it and turn it into an agenda or would he insist on the vote?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u51	Madam President, I would like to know why the 5th Commission is opposed to this amendment and, incidentally, to make it clear that this amendment is actually retracing an existing rule and that it is actually applied, particularly in cases where children are present. Therefore, when this amendment stipulates that the court, after hearing the parties, shall have within the time limits laid down in this paragraph, it is clear that it does not touch the terms by simply giving the possibility of an attempt at mediation between the spouses, using experts. It is a tiptoe intervention, an additional possibility that the State offers to these people who are experiencing a moment of crisis. I would therefore like first of all to try to make the motivation of this proposal known and then to specify that today there is already the institution of mediation but only if there are children. I therefore wanted to see this possibility also in the case of couples without children because, in the same way, these people may need mediation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u52	I would like to point out, also for the rapporteur's opinion, that the opinion of the Budget Committee is conditional on the elimination of the words 'by using experts'. Therefore, I would ask Senator Puglia if he is willing to remove the words by using experts, which is the condition of the 5th Commission and in this case I would ask the rapporteur for her opinion again. Madam President, perhaps I could rephrase this by talking about existing experts. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglia, if this is reworded, we must return to the 5th Commission and stop the action. The condition of the 5th Commission is that those words should be deleted. I would ask the rapporteur to comment on whether this solution is acceptable.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u53	Madam President, first of all I would like to point out that the Budget Committee has delivered an opinion under Article 81 because it is simply a question of economic resources with which to reward the proper work of experts. Secondly, an attempt at conciliation or mediation is already envisaged both in the case of children and in the case where there are no children; it falls within the jurisdiction of the court and is therefore already foreseen. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglia, the rapporteur confirms the opposite opinion. Do you insist on the vote?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u54	Madam President, as proposed by the Budget Commission, I would like to express the words: 'by using experts', because there is actually already this possibility.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u55	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.107 (text 2), tabled by Senator Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,108 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,109, tabled by Senator Mauro Mario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,111 and 1,110 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,17, tabled by Senator Piccinelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,112, tabled by Senator Mauro Mario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,18, tabled by Senator Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.20, tabled by Senator Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for deletion S1.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u58	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I have suffered a great deal in seeing the rapporteur's discomfort in tabling this amendment, because, having had, like her, a committed Catholic experience, and still living the Catholic religion today, I have been a judge, though I feel that I must abide by the rules of our Constitution, which wants marriage to be the foundation of the family, of the legitimate one. On this I do not have to teach anyone anything, but of course having put back to a third party or an agreement between the parties with lawyers the possibility to dissolve the marriage was a mistake. I attach great importance to marriage, which - mind you - the civil code, still today, says that it dissolves with death and in the cases provided for by law. In taking note of this, it must then be realized that divorce in our system has not been introduced as divorce-sanction, but as divorce-remedy to a situation of breakdown of material and spiritual communion already realized in fact. This is the logic that the judge wants to establish the impossibility of reconciliation. Senator Filippin reminded you of the cases of conciliation: have you ever wondered how many are made by the judge (not by time, which does not determine conciliation, but the destruction of relationships for children)? The judge, on the other hand, achieves conciliation when he acts as a judge and commits himself in that work. How can you imagine, then, that before the lawyers - each with his own, with the consequent economic interest - the agreement is made and, after six months, divorced? Is this reflection for you? I do not want to answer Senator Giovanardi, because probably each of us has our own rules, but I live thinking about what the law tells me and this wants the intervention of the judge: the law of divorce has never said that separation can justify divorce, but that the judge ascertains the impossibility of rebuilding coexistence. The separation, the foreign divorce, are only presuppositions, not causes of dissolution in itself. I'm not saying much, but do you want to read the law? It's got nothing to do with divorce separation. How many times has the judge rejected divorce, when he realized that there was a possibility of reconciliation or that those assumptions did not apply? Do you realize that the jurisprudence of our country recognizes divorces celebrated abroad, between Italian citizens or citizens of two citizenships, even without separation? On what basis? When in the judgment of the foreign court there is the determination of the impossibility of the recovery of cohabitation. If this is not the case, the divorce pronounced by the foreign judge in our law is not pronounced and is not recognized. Senator Giovanardi, it's not a life sentence. Suffice it to say that if a spouse abandons the marital roof and does not pass the monthly allowance to the other spouse, he may request a divorce; he is sentenced twice with the conditional suspension and may request a divorce, as has already been done and as is provided for in the law of divorce. And you really think about the six-month farce? But if an agreement were to be reached in an attorney's office, in the fifth month - or perhaps in the fourth month - capital agreements would already be discussed! Senator Stefani referred to the content of amendment 1.0.101. If you have these concerns, then you are right: if there are no children and the marriage lasts less than three years, there is no right to the monthly allowance and probably, in this case there would not be so many divorces! But have you ever experienced, in courtrooms, a case where divorce is pronounced (or filed) at the end of the separation period? Never! What is really immediate is separation. We used to talk about the crisis of the seventh year. Do you realize that today, instead, we are talking about two or three years, marriage and separation? There is a social crisis, of not supporting the family, on the part of the State; a state that should take responsibility for the needs of the working mother and the need to be fathers and mothers together with the children, while today many times they fail to have a chance to meet. With respect to this reality, and with respect for the fact that marriage is a public institution, Senator Giovanardi, only a judge must ascertain the impossibility of coexistence. Divorce can also be achieved with an agreement between the parties, with the joint appeal, but the judge will have to engage in an attempt to reconcile with the parties; and if this fails, it is not said that divorce must necessarily be pronounced, in case the judge realizes that there is a possibility of reconciliation. I address Senator Cucca and the other senators attorneys, reminding them how many times a serious judge has postponed the hearing by one or two months before giving the judgment of separation or divorce. If you are aware of this reality, then we can discuss it. If instead we must accept that the term of six months is better, out of respect for the Catholic world, then as a Catholic I tell you that I want a judge, the State, to ascertain the impossibility of spiritual and material communion. Instead, you have put that determination back on the free choice of parties and you want to deny the judge the possibility of doing so. I understand the discomfort, but the rapporteur cannot be forced to do something that everyone knows is contrary to the rules and practices of this House. A rapporteur adheres to the majority decision, but I understand her discomfort. In order not to be forced to say that you are wrong, from a technical and legal point of view, you preferred to present this proposal for deletion, which I hope you too will not vote. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u59	We greet the students of the State Institute of Higher Education (Amedeo di Savoia) in Popoli, in the province of Pescara. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u62	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I would like to begin by expressing my appreciation to my colleague, Mr Caliendo, who wanted to express in such a clear way a position that I agree with and that he should do justice to so many issues that have developed around this issue in these years of debate. I would just like to add one point to your reasoning: what is legal separation? It is an old legacy of our order, when divorce was not present as an institution in the civil order of our country. It is an old legacy that has not been eliminated, leaving it as a moment of mediation, at a time when Parliament, on the drive of Italian society (which is very often later than the legislator), repeatedly demanded a change of our civil code. Here, today we could take away this backwardness at least on one point, what it recognizes to the spouses, who express a consensual will to divide themselves and who have no children (so they have no third positions to protect), the possibility of going before the judge without manipulations or intermediaries of various types, which however represent in this specific situation a bureaucratism that we could easily eliminate, even in order not to overload our civil process. Starting from these considerations and considering that in any case we must give the Italians opportunities and not impose behaviors, on a particularly sensitive issue such as the one that concerns the choices of one's life, I think that we must make available an institute that allows us to reach, through the verification of the judge (as my colleague Caliendo said), the objective of rescinding a contract that represents, whatever question one wants to support, simply a relationship that is concluded between two adult and consenting subjects. As soon as there are no longer any conditions to maintain this contract, both, in this particular and specific case, consentively proceed to its termination. From this point of view, I am expressing my personal opinion against the deletion, also on behalf of my colleague Fausto Guilherme Longo, so that the position of the Socialists within this Parliament is clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u65	Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) Madam President, we are in favour of the rapporteur's proposal for deletion, on the basis of a basic assumption. Our Group has shared the establishment of the law passed on to us by the House, where it reduces the time required by the current legislation relating to the duration of the separation leading to the possibility given to spouses to resort to the institution of divorce. Three years are children, in my opinion, of a time that has been, of a time and of a society in which values, references, cultural models, the absence of globalization and a model of growth of young people other than the current one postulated the need for greater reflection. A reflection that most of the times served the length of this time and sometimes led the same couples to the impossibility to recompose a new family nucleus, also making the offspring suffer, which asked for a new recomposition (maybe with other subjects and with another father figure), precisely because that time was insurmountable. There was an insurmountable time and - allow me Mr Caliendo - a presence of the judge to whom, in my opinion, it was attributed only the attempt to experience a test, a verification of the possibility of a reunion which, on the basis of my small and modest experience as lawyer, in 99% of cases had an unsuccessful and negative, more formal than substantial outcome. This is also because - I remind myself - just as marriage is a contractual fact between two parties, I do not see how a third party, albeit a magistrate, can interfere with the will of a couple, who consensually, in a convinced way, has declared that he wants to separate because the fundamentals of that relationship have failed. We shared the idea of reducing that time from three years to one year, and we questioned the amended proposal, approved in the Commission, for a further step forward, that of direct divorce, which, by avoiding the use of separation, can allow the institution of marriage to be dissolved even after a few days compared to the time of the same marriage. We questioned each other and said that maybe it's too soon to face it. We are not opposed in principle, but we believe that the models of our society, where they are changed in the constituent dynamics and also rescissive, need ripening times to study their impact on society. That is why we believe that this proposal goes in the direction of a change, of a monitoring of the new model that we are approving, in order to verify whether we can go forward, in the years to follow, on a position of termination of the contract even more slim, that not only does not need recourse to the magistrate but also of the course of time. Let's go with caution and responsibility. It is for this reason that we will be responsible for voting on the system which has been sent to us to the House and the Commission and we are asking, by voting on the deletion, for a moment of reflection and responsibility for the House to be able, in the future, to review what has been the implementation dynamics of this great reform that we are about to approve. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]] 18.12 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u68	CATTANEO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I am speaking personally on the deletion of paragraph 2 of Article 1. I would like to thank the rapporteur for her work, for her words and for the suffering she has put into her report; after these words and having also listened to Senator Caliendo's report, I will vote even more strongly against the deletion of paragraph 2, also because I believe in the ethics of responsibility. I believe that two married persons, both adults and free, consenting and without children, or with adult children, cannot be denied the right, the freedom, to choose not to go through the passage of separation and get directly to divorce, accepting all the consequences that result from it. Even without going into the specific subject in question, I say that when third-party people are not involved - and in this case there are not - I tend to always have a lighthouse to be my reference: certainly not my personal convictions or my ethical assessments, but the protection, always and in any case, of the right of every person to be put in the condition of making life choices in freedom and without constraints, paying the consequences or receiving all the improvements that these choices could bring. That is why I believe that a minimal interference, for me close to zero, of the State in the very personal choices of its relational life is the far preferred solution in a liberal, pluralistic and secular society. That is why I believe that as legislators the horizon to be pursued is to allow everyone, according to his personal conviction, to realize, in life relations, without harming others - and I repeat, without harming others - what he considers to be the closest to his personal happiness. There is a quote, which I find appropriate to the occasion, according to which men fight for freedom and then, among the laws they make to assure it to everyone, they also accumulate some to take it away to themselves. I believe that today, in this Chamber, we could give back a little more of the freedom that those who have legislated before us, under other historical and social conditions, have, in any case, compressed. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Bocchino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u71	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I shall have the opportunity in my explanation of vote to explain more clearly what I think about this proposal for the deletion of paragraph 2 of Article 1, which was also announced by the rapporteur, on which our vote will be against. I would also like to say that I do not speak on my own behalf, but on behalf of my Group and my party: this clarification may seem a bit pleonastic, but I use these words because I believe - and I really disagree with the rapporteur and with the Government, which is somehow referred to this House - that it is too convenient to consider such matters simply as ethically sensitive matters. These are political choices and therefore, at the moment when political choices are put in place, it is necessary, in my opinion, to have the courage to carry forward some convictions, even different from mine, but I insist that I find this type of approach too comfortable, moreover also in total contradiction with a piece of history that we carry behind us, which also has a very significant path in this country and which speaks of many battles that have been conducted on these issues. I think it is a mistake to delete paragraph 2 and I think that this provision would have been much better if it had contained it. However, we find ourselves with the paradoxical result of having a text worse than what came to us from the Chamber, and I will also say this in an explanation of vote, because changing the terms starting from the notification to the appearance evidently extends the times and precisely the work that the Senate should have done, that is to say to develop a text more advanced than that which had been approved in the Chamber, or at least equal to that, when paragraph 2 is deleted, clearly fails. It is clear that the Italian legislator is not yet mature to put on the field what, in our opinion, is an element of total civilization. Our legislation has to date fallen completely behind on the issue of marriage and divorce and it really leads us to be the taillight throughout the European continent and unfortunately the choice we make today affects what could have been a good measure. However, we will vote for it, because of course we do not escape that the provision at the end of this iter will nevertheless determine a better condition than the current one, but where paragraph 2 has not been deleted, and I hope that this does not happen and that the Senate rejects the hypothesis of the deletion, we would have been really, for once, faced with a change of direction. Unfortunately, however, we know that changing direction is a very beautiful slogan and also easy to say, but when it has to be realized in practice it becomes a bit more difficult and sometimes you take refuge behind a so-called ethical conscience or a so-called ethical matter. We will continue the battle on this point, which for us is obviously also a point of political culture, as is well understood. Our Group, in its members Left Ecology and Freedom and Mixed Group, will propose this text to the House when there will be the new passage and, where this should be the final text of the provision, will certainly present a bill in order to finally put in place in our country a tool of direct divorce and overcome this double-track procedure all Italian, daughter of the deep conservatism of this country on these issues, that this measure could have, for once, put aside. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bocchino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u74	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, of course, as Manzoni said in his promise to marry, courage is either in DNA or it is not. Our rapporteur, Senator Filippin, has used the adverb "however," but I use another, more appropriate, "unfortunately," to say that, unfortunately, the rapporteur did not have this courage and did not have it. What can we do about it? There's nothing we can do about it. The fact that the question is political is proof of this fact and I would like it to be kept in mind when it comes to the Constitution and the Fathers of the Homeland and of the Constitution, but also the fathers who in the First Republic have made Italy great, bringing it to be the fifth economic power of the world. I am referring to the fact that in 1974, when we called the Italians to decide on divorce in the referendum on 12 and 13 May, there were real politicians who, while being part of a government, had the courage to carry out a divorce law even with the opposition. Called to referendum, the Italians told us that they wanted a divorce and after forty-one years ask him in the streets what they want, ask him who has to suffer or endure the lengths, the legal impediments that do not allow the family to exist. In fact, to hold together a family, with or without children, in which there is no more dialogue, in which everyone has a life on his own, in which there are only quarrels, it is no longer living, that is no longer a family. The Italians don't want the right garbage (not as Manzoni said, but as Machiavelli said), they don't want farraginous and unintelligible laws; they want the marriage, once finished, to be finished, just to protect their children more. [[Applause from Senator Repetti.]] It is just the opposite of what you are supporting now: the guarantee for children is quick dissolution, because children do not protect themselves by law. As I said last time, it's DNA, it's our internal hormonal impulses (we have 10 million years of evolution; Darwin discovered it, not me), so it's our inner feeling, it's our psyche that has shaped itself to protect children. There's no need for the judge. We have a Parliament made up of too many lawyers and perhaps too many judges who want to protect their professionalism and their remuneration. The Italians are tired of spending all that money to get a divorce and you force them to this prebenda. They need certainties and if we go to ask them what they want, they will answer that they want what I am telling you: after forty-one years they want what they voted in 20 million in 1974, happens, May 13, the day of Our Lady of Fatima, because even those who are above us from the supernatural point of view (for those who believe us) wanted that possibility. We cannot always depend on the Holy Roman Church who wants to give us a lesson in morality. I believe that those who support, as the Gospel does, that those who are without sin throw the first stone; the Episcopal Congregation should do it first and Pope Francis does it when one asks who he is so as not to give communion to the divorced, therefore indirectly wondering who he is to claim that marriage is indissoluble also from the Catholic point of view. Yet they will have to return to us, they cannot allow five centuries to pass as it happened to apologize to Galileo Galilei. They also know that they will have to modernise and do so. However, we must, above all, ensure that we are a secular and non-ethical state. So it's not about morals and ethics, it's about politics; it's about knowing what our people want, going to meet them and not letting laws be decided here to allow those hordes of lawyers to live on the misfortunes of others. Therefore, precisely on the Fortuna Baslini law, which was the subject of a referendum, the Italians spoke forty-one years ago; Europe does not ask us to do so, the Italians, the families, who are hundreds, ask us to do so. All the families are asking for it. To hear that we have a Constitution founded only on the family makes me smile: perhaps the children who are born not from marriage but from coexistence are series B? It means that the protection of our Constitution is valid for all, and especially for the weakest, who must be guaranteed, but allowing people to remake a family and have new children. I think fewer babies are born just because we're right, but Niccolò Machiavelli and not Manzoni. Those who vote for the excerpt do not know the evil it does to Italy, to Italians and families. Personally, as a socialist, as a reformist, I will vote firmly, and I will scream at my vote, against this deletion. It was a good law and now it becomes really insufficient. Courage, returning to "The Promised Marriages" and to Don Abbondio, did not have it. You must grant me this: even the Democratic Party has already been involved; it says that it is in the Socialist International, but these communists or socialists are also dying of Christian Democrats, but of the worst Christian democracy and not of the best, with which we were allies. [[Applause from Senator Repetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u77	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, the 5 Star Movement will vote against this proposal for a deletion, because we know, and we all know it here, that the proposal for a deletion is not aimed at the birth of a new bill, but simply at its cover-up, and is therefore the antechamber of the cover-up of this measure. We will vote against the deletion because we are in favour of the Senate being able to express itself and also be able to vote on the immediate divorce - why not? - and so that each of its members may assume its responsibilities before the country. We shall vote against this deletion because we do not think it is a choice from Pontius Pilate, who throws the stone but then, when taking responsibility for it, hides his hand. That is why we shall vote against the deletion. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u80	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I would just like to point out that there are senators within the Mixed Group who adhere to the explanation of vote given by Senator De Cristofaro and others who, on the other hand, will vote in accordance with their consciences, in the idea that the freedom to choose should certainly be guaranteed on this occasion too, which is very conscientious.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u82	For what, Senator Caliendo? You have already spoken in an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u83	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would just like to make one point. I have made a statement on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, but my Group, as you know, and for an ideal and cultural heritage, leaves its senators free to vote as they wish, as they consider appropriate and just for reasons of conscience. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u86	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I have listened with great interest to this brief debate and to all the speeches that have followed us. The question is very important and on it the Senators of the Democratic Party met in the Assembly this morning and expressed themselves with an indication that it was then taken over by Senator Filippin and that the Senator herself expressed on behalf of the Group. In particular, I was struck by the interventions carried out so far by Senator Cattaneo and Senator De Cristofaro. In fact, Senator Cattaneo has carried out the issue of the freedom of each of us and the need for this freedom to be legally protected, that is, each Italian citizen to be given the opportunity to decide responsibly of himself, of what he wants to do with his life. Senator De Cristofaro, on the other hand, stressed the political character of this debate, not only ethical; on the contrary, more: it is political and parliamentary. We are voting and making a decision that has a procedural nature and does not have to do with the content of the paragraph, of which Senator Filippin asked for the deletion. I was impressed by the speeches of Senators Cattaneo and De Cristofaro and I wondered why, thinking like them and totally sharing their speeches, I will vote differently from them. Why am I going to vote differently from two senators who feel the same way about this? That is what I would like to try to explain, Mr President. As clearly emerged from this morning's assembly, the Democratic Party, in its vast majority, has no negative - and I dare say, positive - prejudice to the content of this paragraph. The Democratic Party thinks that this would be, when it became part of our system, a useful institution. But we consider the parliamentary condition in which we are in. There has been a provision in the Senate which we attach a great deal of value to, and I regret that I have heard colleagues who regard as less favorable the rule that we would go to adopt if the deletion were to be approved. We welcome a major initiative because short divorce is a big thing: the six months, a year of time, are a very significant change from the current time and legal regime. We fear that, in changing such an innovative rule, in the mandatory passage to the Chamber of Deputies of the still perfect bicameralism, the measure may delay very much its approval or, even, find political obstacles for which it may end up stranded. It wouldn't be the first time that happened on the shuttle between the House and the Senate and, especially on issues of this nature and delicacy, I believe that, in conscience, no senator can exclude it. Therefore, we take the political and parliamentary commitment that this deletion will naturally lead to a draft law which will have the content of this second paragraph and we take the political and parliamentary commitment to support its rapid examination in the Commission and in the Assembly of the Senate; but we ask that the deletion be approved in order to allow a positive and rapid decision. We want the short divorce to be quickly approved and quickly entered into our order. [[Applause from the PD Group]] With the same speed we will also proceed to what someone calls direct, some immediate examination of this new institute. But - please - we do not put at risk, neither in time nor in content, a law that many Italians expect and that they want to be passed quickly and effectively for their expectations. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bianconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u87	I put to the vote the proposal for the deletion of S1.1 tabled by the rapporteur. It's approved. Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved. As a result of the approval of the proposal to delete S1.1 referring to paragraph 2 of Article 1, the provisions contained therein will be incorporated into the bill no. 1504-a which will be immediately referred to the competent parliamentary committees. Amendments Nos 1,113 to 1,118 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 1 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.0.100 has been withdrawn and turned into an agenda. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u88	Mr President, the opinion is in favour, provided that the commitment to the Government is changed by adding the words "to assess the appropriateness of "to."
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u89	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u90	Does the draftsman accept the amendment proposed by the rapporteur? MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The Senate, when approving draft law no. 1504, commits the Government to consider the possibility of studying the phenomenon of marriages contracted for the sole purpose of obtaining benefits from public administrations, to report them in Parliament and to propose measures to prevent and counter the phenomenon mentioned above. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.0.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.4 tabled by Senator Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.2 tabled by Senator Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.5, tabled by Senator Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.101, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u91	Mr President, I would ask you to withdraw all the amendments, or I am against them all, including the additional ones. With regard to amendments 2.0.101 and 2.0.102, the proposers requested that they be withdrawn in order to turn them into an agenda. On this agenda, I am voting in favour, provided that it is reworded as follows: The Senate, in the examination of draft law no. 1504, commits the Government to assess the opportunity to address and resolve the issues referred to in amendments 2.0.101 and 2.0.102.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u92	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u93	Senator Stefani, do you accept the rapporteur's rewording? STEFANI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2.0.101 (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u94	On the amendments to Article 2, the Government returns to the Chamber. On the other hand, I am opposed to the additional amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u95	Amendments 2,200, 2,201, 2,202 and 2,203 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,100. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.100, tabled by Senator Piccinelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,101 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.100, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would remind you that amendments 2.0.101 and 2.0.102 have been withdrawn and changed to agenda G2.0.101 (text 2) accepted by the Government. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u96	Mr President, I call on the authors to withdraw, otherwise the opinion is against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u97	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u98	Having not been tabled on Article 3 other amendments than the deleterious amendment 3,100, tabled by Senator Mauro Mario, we shall proceed to the vote on the retention of the Rule. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the maintenance of Article 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.0.100 and 3.0.102 are unacceptable. Amendment 3.0.101 is precluded by the rejection of amendments 1.0.101 and 2.0.100. Amendment 3.0.103 is inadmissible. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.0.104, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.0.105, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.0.106, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.0.107, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.0.108, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.0.109, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.0.110, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.0.111, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.0.112, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.0.113, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.0.114, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u99	We greet the students and teachers of the Institute including Eleonora Duse in Bari, who are attending the Senate and whom we thank for their visit. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u100	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.0.115, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.0.116, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.0.117, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u103	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, our group is not a mixed but anarchist group, in the good sense of the word, because in 1882 it founded the oldest Italian party, that of the socialists. Everyone will therefore vote according to their own conscience and political belief: it is the true democracy that our constituent Fathers have asked us for, since there is no constitutional bond of mandate. However, I now declare that I will vote in favour despite everything, or perhaps I should use the adverb 'unfortunately', unlike Mrs Filippin, the rapporteur, who used 'all the way'. In fact, I know that, even if he thought like me, he had to undergo the peremptory and dry order of Zanda, who - we heard him, authoritative and authoritarian at the same time - required the Democratic Party Group, for reasons of government maintenance, to vote therefore for the removal of direct divorce. The Italians, thus, will not have direct divorce, which will instead be stuck on a dead track. With a view to a context of simplification and deburocratisation, the short divorce measure is certainly a fundamental part of it. The reduction of the time needed for the termination of the effects of a marriage at the end, where the spouses are consenting, should therefore be welcomed. Simplifying must mean making life easier for citizens, including by promoting relations between them and established powers. In the case of an agreement between spouses who have decided to terminate their married life, if there are no particular grounds for preventing divorce, there is therefore no reason not to facilitate divorce. The therapeutic fervour that one wants to carry on is not acceptable, because the Italians have already asked us 41 years ago with the famous referendum on divorce and the law Fortuna-Baslini, because they ask us daily and systematically and because the Church, I believe, with this Pope should adapt to the evolution in place. Rightly, when the Pope affirms that he wants to grant communion also to the divorced, he also means that, even for the Holy Roman Church, marriage cannot be indissoluble, because this is not written either in the 10 commandments given to Moses by the Father or, even less, in the Gospels. Therefore, even for those who believe, even if they are secular, that the family is, yes, at the heart of our Constitution, but this same Constitution also protects families in fact, cohabitations and all children born in marriage, out of marriage, between marriage and even those born with heterologous fertilization to which, if God wills, we arrived not thanks to a Parliament, but thanks to the Constitutional Court. Doing this also potentially means facilitating any marriages after divorce and therefore having other families and other children, obviously with a better quality of life. What matters, in fact, is that a family be serene and live with love and sharing what are both joys and sorrows. As they say in my land of Lunigiana: one Pope died and another made. If, after a marriage, we are faced with a new coexistence, which produces a marriage and children, why not encourage the establishment of a new family and a new family cell? You can't force two conscious people to be slaves to a bond that doesn't work anymore. That the family is a primary value to guarantee and protect as much as possible is not in question. The family, the cohabitations, the de facto couples and the values that govern them (understood as the education of children, mutual cohabitation, mutual aid in adversity and diseases) are not in question. If these fail, however, what sense do years of forced ties and exclusively legal connotation take? I spoke of Azzeccagarbugli, but not in the Manzoni sense, but in the Machiavellian sense of the word. Why would you disturb the waters in a simple matter like marriage? We address the City, the civil authority or the ecclesiastical authority, and the marriage is contracted without the need for lawyers. And so it must be when this fails, there are children or not. If two conscious people realize that these values are no longer shared, perhaps even by one of them, it makes no sense, neither from the logical point of view nor from the legislative point of view, to force them to draw years waiting to not know what. And to make money, of course, it's just lawyers. If the result remains the obtaining of the cessation of marriage bonds there is no reason to lengthen an agony that risks only bringing greater suffering. Creating a new life is a right and must not be warned that, by law, you cannot contract a new marriage: of course if, after years and years, you have come to interrupt the previous one. It is necessary, on such issues, to engage in what is happening in the rest of Europe, especially in those countries which, despite their shortcomings, have always put themselves at the forefront of ethical issues and civil rights. And you think that we used to call them barbaric countries, but now they give them lessons in law to us who, with the Roman Empire, have exported the right everywhere. Of course: you have to have the courage to change. This has happened in the past on much more sensitive issues: I mentioned first the Fortuna-Baslini law of 1970 on divorce, but there are also the most recent cases of homologous and heterologous fertilization. Today no one would imagine being able to give up those who, from the introduction of divorce to the possibility of stopping pregnancy, represent real civil conquests. We have also interrupted maternity tourism. We went to France, Switzerland, Slovenia or Spain; we had thousands, tens of thousands of cases. What a shame! This Parliament did not live up to the demands of its people and its citizens. Personally, I am convinced that this measure is in the same direction, although its scope and its installation are certainly lower than those mentioned above, also because of the deletion that has been approved obtorto neck. We did not have the necessary courage, the courage that our constituent Fathers and politicians of the First Republic obviously had. They have made Italy great and, as I mentioned before, have led it to be the fifth power in the world. Now - alas - we are ridiculed. I do not want to mention the case of the maròs, which represents a humiliation for the entire patriotic soil; at the time of Bettino Craxi this would certainly not have happened. Modernising society is a priority that any parliament, any government and any country must have as its own beacon; it is the direction towards which to strive for the very development of society. Like others in the natural democratic game, this measure is and will be strongly supported by some and equally strongly opposed by others. What I am sure of is that future generations will look at it as something, as well as right, also indispensable and will say that it is never too late, even if lately we have done it (and thanks to heaven we have done it), a bit is better than nothing; something we have managed to do. I personally shall vote in favour of it. The Group I represent, which is the most democratic, will vote in accordance with its conscience. [[Applause from Senator Ferrara Mario.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u106	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although the general debate, the discussion and the vote on this measure have committed this House for a time that we can consider to be limited, we have not all realised the importance of the subject we are talking about. I agree with what the rapporteur said when she said that we are not talking about losing the principle of the indissolubility of marriage and that we are not here to rethink the arguments that were made and widely debated in the 1970s. What is happening today is the introduction of a simple change in terms. The North League has welcomed the fact that the differentiation between separation and divorce has not been overcome, thus excluding the so-called immediate divorce. In our view, we consider the arguments that, from a legal point of view, the conditions leading to separation are different from the conditions that must exist for divorce to be pronounced. However, we must also take into account how life and the way in which life has been conceived have changed over the years. The law and we ourselves must realise that we must adapt standardization to change of custom and culture. Unfortunately, marriages do not always resist. There was an old advertisement that said that a diamond is forever, marriage is not: marriage, the declaration that married couples make does not last for eternity. In all this, it is certainly a fundamental institution to defend, because it is on it that a family is born. At the same time, however, it must be granted and recognized that everyone has the right to make up a family, to make a new life and to have other opportunities. In this respect, many laws and judgments can also be made and discussed; but the big question is whether the law solves the crisis or whether it may contain it. From this point of view it is also difficult to think of it, because the assumptions and conditions that have led to a marital crisis, and that have led the spouses to decide for legal separation, probably start from a crisis that is resumed and reinvigorated just when the divorce procedure opens. This is well known to all. There are not always consensual separations and joint divorces; often, unfortunately, there are situations of litigation that exacerbate even crisis situations. Not always the lawyer or the magistrate can find solutions to these situations. However, we wonder how far we can express ourselves and go to influence what is a fundamental institution that, as was said, is the one from which a family is born. Many arguments can be made because it is not just about the right. It is easy to talk about what may be the conditions that lead to a separation or the prerequisites for a divorce pronunciation, but the reasons that arise that give rise to a family crisis are very complex. We also believe that the legislation, as it has been dealt with, does not even affect the situation that affects minors, which we wanted to put to the attention of the Government through our amendments, which wanted to discuss issues about shared custody, the ways of contribution that, unfortunately, create big quarrels when you appear before a magistrate. In this respect, we are very pleased that our agendas have been accepted, inviting the Government and all of us in this House to review perhaps the whole issue that feeds many lawsuits and disputes. As the Lega Nord Group and Autonomous Group, we decided, as had already been pointed out in the general discussion, that all the members of the Lega Nord Group should be free to vote on this measure. On the other hand, the Government itself has returned to the Assembly on many amendments, recognizing that indeed we are not talking about a strictly political, legal or technical choice because we are going to involve certain personal and profound sensibilities of how we interpret and think that this rule can affect the life (as a length) of a marriage and its times for the resolution of the same. Personally, I can vote in favour of this measure because I believe that on the one hand the reduction of the time limits envisaged can also give spouses an opportunity to re-engage another life and on the other hand, shorter times can allow the issues that gave rise to the marital crisis in separation as in divorce almost as if they were unitary, without prolonging the excessive moments of difficulty. Let us realize that a cause for separation can last seven years and we come to a courtroom even more than ten years to try to resolve issues related to a marital crisis. Well, I think this is really a form of injustice because people sometimes ruin themselves by making causes. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] We therefore believe that more time can facilitate and allow for a more unified treatment. On the other hand, with regard to the proposal for a deletion which has been voted on and which we in the North League have also voted on, we have agreed with the whole House because we believe that the time is not yet ripe to deal with the issue of so-called immediate divorce. From a more exquisitely technical point of view, it can be considered that the conditions leading to a separation pronunciation are different from those relating to a divorce: those preceding a separation are realized when there are circumstances that render the coexistence intolerable, while at the time when the judgment of divorce is pronounced it must be verified and ascertained that the material and spiritual communion between the spouses has failed. Not only that, but our Group also has some concerns about the fact that, in a world like today, where sometimes there are also opportunisms that pass through the institution of marriage, the possibility of obtaining divorces may be exploited, perhaps a little 'easy, giving rise to marriages of convenience. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] In any event, we call on this House to take seriously the issue of custody of children and the situations that arise with regard to child support contributions. There are many situations of separate parents who actually live - gentlemen, let us be aware - in a situation of almost poverty, a new form of poverty for which a person with a modest income, in a scale economy, when he was in the family, could live, at the time when he is divided he is faced with insurmountable difficulties. From this point of view, some regulations and interpretations must be assessed and not tightened up. We must try to adapt our legislation so that the magistrate can also make the right decisions. I think that we have done a good job and that a good job has also been done by the Commission, because the text that came out of the House was indeed very critical. As we discussed it and voted on it, I think it can be a good start. However, we must remember that when we talk unfortunately about separation and divorce, the only principle to think about is that of the family, so even if we are talking about a moment of crisis of the family, we always remember that the family is the core, the source of our social life. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u109	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the explanation of vote which I am now about to make on behalf of the Group for the Autonomies-MAIE-PSI is an explanation of vote that cannot in any way circumvent those fundamental issues of politics itself, which in turn cannot be eluded without an ethical reflection; you want it to refer to the philosophy of law, you want it to refer to a more correct constitutional philosophy. Before the explanation of vote, we therefore need some considerations. These are the inescapable premises for a substantive and non-formal argument, free from ideological drifts in a bill - such as the one in question - which certainly evokes conflicting ethical, social, legal and legislative assessments. Indissolubility of marriage on the one hand, dissolution or cessation of civil effects on the other are referred to divergent axiological paradigms. It therefore requires a secular argument, because the methodological secularity (otherwise that contentistic one would be nothing more than valueless secularism) represents the figure of the political institutions that operate and take place within the perimeter of a pluralistic democracy. We are aware that pluralist democracy presupposes the separation - the tradition of modern constitutionalism - between truth and justice, between religion and politics. The indissolubility of marriage represents the paradigm that Christianity defines in terms of the sacrament; this expression is certainly not found in the Italian Constitution. Marriage is a communion of life and love between a man and a woman. Once celebrated, marriage, for the Christian feeling, is indissoluble in itself. Marriage, precisely through the choice of a single person, is ontologically justified for the recognition that the duality of individuals is surpassed in the fulfilment of the unity that is recomposition of the Generating Unity; a theme, this, of trinitarian relevance. It is evident that the recognition of the sacredness of the marriage bond cannot justify divorce. With regard to the distinction between the religious order and the civil order, it is appropriate to recall the debate, for the truth very heated, in the constituent Assembly, especially when the draft of the Commission of the 75 affirmed the principle of the indissolubility of marriage. There was a passionate and tenacious opposition to the constitutional consecration of the indissolubility of marriage. At the end of a harsh confrontation, indissolubility was removed from the constitutional text. Again with regard to the distinction between religious order and civil order, it is equally important to recall the questions of legitimacy raised in the examination of the Constitutional Court - and rejected - concerning the law of 1 December 1970, n. 898. The questions of legitimacy raised concerned in particular the cessation of civil effects, which the law ideally contrasts with the dissolution of marriage. One question we might ask ourselves at this point: is it a mere terminological distinction between "cessation of civil effects' and "dissolution'? Far from it. It is not a mere terminological distinction; it clearly marks the distinction between religious and civil plan. The ratio of the duplicity of dispositions has been identified in the need to lend respect to the constitutional principle of the distinction of the religious order with respect to the civil order and therefore in the need to emphasize that, even when a marriage celebrated in religious form takes on civil importance, the State - secular and pluralist - has no title to interfere on the qualification of its confessional projections. Therefore, the formulation of the civil effects "cessation" performs a function in some way "evocative," acting as a prism that reveals the contours of a surviving marriage in the religious order, beyond the debauching work carried out in the civil order. These are the words in the judgments of the Constitutional Court No 203 of 1989 and No 13 of 1991. In other words, with the cessation of civil effects the only civil and not religious effects, belonging to the latter sphere immune from state legislation, are overwhelmed. How to say: not omne quod licet, honorum est; not everything that civil law allows is lawful from the ethical-religious point of view, nor in conformity with the obligations that derive from the faithful from his belonging to the Church. In other words, religious marriage, as indissoluble in its essence, resists divorce itself. However, on the other hand, the explicit reference to the family as a natural society founded on marriage, as stated in Article 29 of the Constitution, is the affirmation of the just-naturalistic and therefore non-confessional foundation of indissolubility. The expression "natural society" defines the family as a spontaneous nucleus born from the bond of couples to allow man and woman to overcome the individual dimension. It is a consolidating evidence that today, widespread, the indissolubility of marriage is no longer a real and open question, in a context of demarriage where the priority issue is not the spread of divorces, but - if you allow, wanting to use a codified expression also in literature - there is a certain agony of civil marriage. Penetrating within the very meaning of the marriage bond, if it is considered a contract, can only be considered in term if the conditions that had motivated and regulated it no longer exist. The thesis of marriage as a term contract through divorce calls for the claim of a privatistic freedom, in a perspective of denial of marriage as an eminently relational institution. As much as you can consider and justify all the reasons that lead to divorce, it inevitably represents a fracture, a wound, the recognition of a mistake. There is the awareness that nothing can reset or lighten the discomfort and damage caused by the marriage crisis to minors, who are part of it, but helpless and above all inevitable victims. The same separation, then, is increasingly configured as a divorce in term or under suspensive condition. Indeed, a transmutation of the very institute of separation took place which, from a temporary state directed to the restoration of coexistence (almost a pause for reflection, also defined a spatium deliberandi) and to the reconciliation of the spouses, becomes an initial stage of a process that will inevitably lead to divorce. The reduction in the time taken for separation, as set out in the draft law in question, responds to a common and heartfelt need for speedy change in the status of spouse. It is also clear that the forecast of too little time, I would say non-existent, such as the one configured and envisaged in the so-called immediate divorce makes any rethinking and reconciliation between spouses impossible. However, it is good to point out that there is a serious lack and inadequacy of paths aimed at the restoration of coexistence, the reconstruction of a fair or opportune period in which something particular can be rebuilt, rebuilt within the same family. On the other hand, it is understandable, in situations of grave and irretrievable conjugal conflict, that the duration of separation is short. Therefore, in the light of the arguments put forward, on behalf of the Group for the Autonomies, PSI-MAIE, I am voting in favour of this draft law. [[Applause from the Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u112	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we, as the Misto-SEL Group, will vote in favour of this measure because we consider it to be progress in relation to the existing legislation on separation between spouses which today, as I said a few minutes ago, in our country is among the most restrictive of those of the various European countries. We would have by far, I think it is well known, preferred (in fact we shared it) the prediction of the transition to direct divorce by going beyond the phase of separation, and for this reason we considered the deletion of that rule a serious political error. Apparently, the Italian legislator is not yet mature for changes that in our country seem who knows how radical and that, instead, in other European countries are widely accepted and long since. We were the only ones in the European Union, except Northern Ireland and Poland, who had to request separation before the divorce. The progress we make today, however positive, is really the minimum necessary to bring us closer to the laws of other countries, such as Britain, France and Germany, in which it is common heritage and established that marriage relations can only continue with the constant commitment of both spouses and that any other choice cannot be opposed and penalized. What we approve today are minimal measures of civilization and freedom and, vice versa, it would have been much more innovative and important to overcome the double track, what precisely leads to this double Italian procedure: first the separation then the divorce. This procedure lengthens the time, increases the costs, unnecessarily increases the workload of justice, produces malfunctions in the times and a troublesomeness that creates inconveniences, sometimes bypassed with the so-called tourism towards the other countries in which the short divorce is granted. Of course, it is, as is well understood, a form of tourism guaranteed only to those who have the economic resources to be able to do so. Then I believe, and I would like to discuss this with the House, that perhaps a little more general reflection on the issue of rights in our country should really do so. A country that even in another political and cultural season, unfortunately now very far away, was at the forefront of the entire continental panorama. This was the case, for example, when one passed from the crime of honor to the divorce law in Italy; it was so when one passed from the shame of the handles to the Basaglia law. Our country, which was in that phase crossed by a cultural renewal that brought it out of a historical condition of backwardness, has then suffered a long season of anything else. A season marked by a real perbenist hypocrisy: the season of divorced politicians who participated in family days, the season of private vices and public virtues, the season of a conservatism so acute that it conveys an image and a paternalistic idea of the State, capable of intervening even in the sphere of affections and private life. Think of some words that have also gone through the political debate of this country: abortion, therapeutic abortion, assisted procreation, euthanasia: they are in our country, when it's okay, rights halved by prejudices that become law and, when it goes wrong, they are even taboo. Our legislation on civil rights is one of the most backward in Europe and is the daughter of exactly this context: the fears of a political class that has completely renounced the role of building a new common sense which, in the final analysis, should be its highest objective. And so it happens - as happened this evening - that even a norm of absolute common sense, such as the one removed, is even seen as a threat; and indeed it happens that children, children, are also hypocritically brought into play, even when they obviously have nothing to do with it. In fact - it should be remembered - the excluded rule, which provided for the possibility of asking for the dissolution of the marriage even in the absence of legal separation, concerned cases where there were no minor or adult children unable to do so. Those who brought up children's rights to cancel this point and to get to the excerpt, either very banally or did not read the text or did so in real political bad faith. This reform will now return to the House: it will return with a text - alas - worse, because it would have been better - I address the rapporteur - if the twelve months scheduled for the period of time of interrupted separation had been fixed and counted from the notification of the request for separation, as was provided for in the text of the House, and not, as in the text of the Senate, from the appearance of the spouses before the President of the court in the procedure of personal separation. This forecast, of course, is likely to lengthen the time. In any case it remains positive that, compared to the current legislation, the whole of the norm will make the path towards the dissolution of marriage easier, however with a significant saving, also of money, both for citizens and for the State (of course this is the reason why we will vote for it). In any case, as I said earlier, we, as the Left Group Ecology and Freedom and as the Mixed Group, intend to continue the battle that has been waged over the course of these weeks, already in the House, when the text will return there, and in any case with the presentation of a new bill that will re-produce the deleted part, where the final formulation should remain, after the passage to the House, the same as today. In short, we need to build legislation that knows, at the same time, how to put children and daughters at the centre, that is, those who suffer most from the uncertainty caused by the long time of judicial proceedings - as the fathers of child neuropsychiatry have taught us - and who, of course, also know how to give equal centrality to that concept of responsibility which must be the basis of family relations for us, but which, precisely for these reasons, must be able to live in freedom and not in compulsion. In doing so, I believe that we can have more appropriate legislation, more in line with the actual rules that exist in other European countries as well. Today, however, while taking a step forward, remains the strong bitterness for having lost another opportunity, yet again, unfortunately, to make a real change towards our country. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and the Senators Bignami and De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u115	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I have to say that my friend, Senator Barani, has facilitated the task, because he has explained all the reasons why, on the contrary, we will vote in favour of this bill and at the same time we have voted for the deletion. It is for this Italy, for the society represented by Senator Barani, in which families are broken up, then remarried and made other children; for the family image proposed by the television advertising of the "Mulino Bianco" (White Mill), in which everyone is fine and, of course, divorce, the fact that children see father and mother quarrel, the fact that other families form are all events that enrich human personality. A reality in which you do not see the reason why you have to take responsibility: just fall in love, plant everything and start again! I repeat: there are 800,000 people in Italy who, after the divorce, are dragging their affairs into a tunnel in which they entered by divorce. Issues that drag for years and years, in an exasperated conflict, played on the skin of the children, where there is no White Muline, but there are despair and quarrels. And sometimes, unfortunately, there are events that are also interested in the news, absolutely traumatic events that are the result of something that is not like drinking a glass of water. Divorce is a pain in the ass, but of what? On this point we must understand each other. I very much respect Senator Cattaneo and the considerations he brought and even more impressed me with the speech of President Zanda, who is a great dialectically, because he said perfectly well with colleagues like Senator De Cristofaro and then voted exactly the opposite of how they voted (while I, who did not share their motives, voted differently from them than the excerpt). Why didn't I share some of the reasons? Because reasoning must be brought to the extreme consequences: if this institution provided for by the Constitution, which speaks of the family as a natural society founded on marriage, it still makes sense, it is clear that marriage is different from a temporary agreement between two people living together, not assuming any formal bond and not recognizing the marriage of the Constitution; these are very free, a second later, to leave themselves, as good friends, as they once said. And there are a lot of people who make this choice. However, as I said in general discussion, what we have seen in American films, that is, a person who marries five, nine or eleven times in life, like some famous Hollywood actresses who have amazed us for this, is the consequence of what Senator Barani said: at the end of the day, if getting married is something that you just fall in love with someone else you can throw away, then you can go from marriage to marriage. But the question that arises spontaneously is: what remains of marriage? Perhaps it would be appropriate, then, to delete it from the Constitution: whoever wants it, will marry religiously and the State will give it is not well understood what form of protection to situations that legally become more and more intricate. We will not talk about it today, but when we do so - and we will talk about it because it will be mandatory - about the uterus for rent, the fertilizations that take place with genetic material and the complications that will arise in terms of father and mother or who is neither father nor mother, but orders children to others, we will see that the consequences of what is called "love" are not easily decipherable in terms of rights. I was impressed - and we will have to reflect on this, I hope, when examining the deletion in the Commission - that in the vast majority of cases (almost 70%) it is women who decide to split up with their husbands and instead divorce asks for it, for more than 60%, men. Why? There is one reason: because in our system, today, in the context of separation, women and children are particularly protected, perhaps, according to the associations of separated husbands, even excessively, and with divorce this protection is greatly weakened and it is man, instead, who grasps advantages over what is established in separation. Do we want to strike a balance? Do we want to reason in such terms that, above all, the weakest part, which is the children, which is often the wife and sometimes, in today's society, is the husband, can find protection in the order? Or do we want marriage to become something strictly private, which affects only two people and not society? In this way it would become an institution no longer recognized by society, totally indifferent to whether or not there is family stability, whether there is a place where children are born, grow up, are educated and find stability. If this is the consequence and it is said that there is no interest in stability, I also understand the reasoning aimed at the dissolution of something that is no longer there. A little while ago I remembered that in the civil code we still have the engagement, the promise of marriage, and those who break an engagement must answer in terms of the return of gifts and compensation for damages; and we are at the level of engagement. But then we can't make marriage less than what is still in the civil code today is engagement. Moreover, the discourse of founding society on an element so labile as love and love, without there being any education towards concepts such as duty, responsibility, obligations towards children seems very reductive. I believe that generations of politicians, intellectuals and men of culture have raised the problem of the disintegration of society. There are constant calls to Europe, but do you know that in the outskirts of the great European cities there is a dramatic problem of total breakdown of the family? There are legions of mothers who no longer control their 14 or 15-year-olds who are born without fathers and, in those societies, there is a desperate need to recover the concept of stability that has been lost. I do not share what Cameron has done about gay marriages, but he himself has motivated it by saying that in the face of a society totally broken down well forms of aggregation at least of this type. I didn't say that. David Cameron said that. Fortunately Italy is a country where the family basically still holds. It is a family in which this heritage of social cohesion still exists, and therefore I do not see the reason why institutions do not have to work to consolidate what is still there in order to give an educational perspective, made up of duties and responsibilities, to the family, leaving instead - and I quote Senator Barani - the illustration of a reality that does not exist and which is based on the most labile thing in the world, the fall in love, the possibility of building the future. In conclusion, we would certainly have liked the question of whether or not the children had already had an emphasis. We are talking about six months if there is consensus and one year if there is conflict. But I ask the question again: is it the same if the couple does not have children or if instead they have two, three, four or five? I don't think so. I think there's a difference. In fact, one account is whether the repercussions and trauma of separation, subsequent divorce, and perhaps the reconstruction of another family, are reflected only on the two spouses; another is, especially if there is disagreement, if these repercussions are reflected not only on the spouses, but also on the children, who will be entrusted together or will be the victims of the problems that will arise. Maybe, colleagues and colleagues, you know something about this. How many times does it happen that the separate father wants to visit the children and the ex-wife does not allow it or does not allow the holidays to be made? Then they start all the rides of the world and always on the skin of children. Therefore, the case of separation or divorce is more delicate when there are children than when there are no children. Don't we want a time difference? Let's at least do it on the way. We build a path through which we can manage and even mediate this trauma in the interest of our children. I believe that when we return to the Commission this is a problem that we will have to face. We must not compete with other countries to get first in divorces and separations and to say how good we are; we have totally broken society; how modern we are! In my opinion, we are modern if we act in such a way as to win this race on the contrary, that is to say by demonstrating a European country in which we do not achieve these levels of disintegration. I see some of the PD's colleagues showing a great deal of dissent, but if you go to re-read the speeches made by his colleagues in the party in general discussion, you will find a triumphalism compared to countries that, according to a certain interpretation, have more divorces and separations and therefore would be more civil; I have some reason to disagree with this opinion. However, with these premises and emphasis, we will vote in favour of the text, because, as Senator Zanda said, in politics we must also be realistic and we must realize that there are situations that must be appreciated for the results that are achieved. I believe that our Group president, Mr Schifani, has said one very right thing: when reforms are being carried out like these - we did a six months ago on the modalities of divorce and separation and we are now doing one on the times - it is also wise to prove, at the social, legal and court level, how things are going; then, once the impact of this reality has occurred, which is, in any case, very innovative compared to the previous times, it will be possible to take up the subject wisely in the Commission. Therefore, in the light of these considerations, the People's Area Group states that it will vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u116	Colleagues, given the progress of the final explanations of vote and the high number of requests for late-session speeches received, it is likely that the continuation of the debate on the draft law in title and the final vote will be postponed until tomorrow, after the President of the Council's communications. I say this in the form of an invitation, however, to follow the speeches.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u119	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the 5 Star Movement will give its vote in favour of this measure, in line with what it has always said and done. It took part in the creation of the measure in the House, proposing amendments that have then become an integral part of the article that we are going to fire. It has supported it in this House and in the Commission, but also outside the institutional fora, informing citizens of the many obstacles that the majority have put in place to its approval process. Yes, because this provision has not had an easy life, indeed, it is a paradigm of difficulties and inconsistencies within the majority, unable to quickly dismiss a measure though expected and shared by a very large majority of political forces, both in the House and in the Senate. I remember that he was fired from the Chamber of Deputies in May 2014, almost a year ago, with a very large majority. Well, if it were for the 5 Star Movement, this would already be a law of the State, but not in words, but in fact. We would have liked to have included the short divorce - and we have tried to do so - by means of an amendment to the decree-law for the reform of the civil process, in the part relating precisely to the termination of marriage. That amendment, which was not even of the 5 Star Movement, but which we had signed, was then withdrawn, with the justification that it would not have been relevant. So an amendment that reduced the time of separation was not relevant to a measure that regulated the cessation of divorce, when in this House we voted a decree on feminicide that provided for specific rules of repression of the No TAV or funding for mountain communities: that is where there was relevance to the topic! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] On the other hand, it was not relevant to reduce separation times with the rules governing the termination of marriage. All right, but that's not just the point: it must be recognized to the 5 Star Movement that it repeatedly asked for calendarization (it is in the acts). Of course, both during the votes in the Commission, which I have just mentioned, that we had to register the opposition of the Democratic Party and the majority on the occasion of the request for a timetable in this House, unable then to deal with the opposition of the New Right Centre. At last, there seems to be no contradiction at least today. During the last summer, during the votes on the most useless and harmful constitutional reform in the history of the Italian Republic, it has been repeatedly indicated, in particular by a former colleague, currently running for President of the Veneto Region, the need to repeal the Senate, precisely because she is unable to dismiss the rule on short divorce! Too bad that the responsibility for its failure to schedule for almost a year, in the Commission first and then in the Chamber, was the responsibility of its own majority and, ultimately, of its own party! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We find ourselves in a clear paradoxical situation: the rule on short divorce has been taken and it has been said that it was an example of the inefficiency of the institution that we all represent here, in the awareness that the responsibility for its lack of calendarization was not attributable at all to the Senate; it was not attributable to parliamentary obstructionism; it was not attributable at all to the absence of a political majority; but it was related to the inertia and obstruction of government and majority, which for almost a year were more interested in their stability than in the interests of 300,000 citizens of our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We therefore hope that, in the course of this process of approval, the House will not be put into practice, the same "dilator tricks" used by the majority in the Senate, starting from the guilty, delayed opinion of the Budget Commission, presided over - as is the case - by a President of the New Right Centre, who has known to slow down the work in the Commission for months, failing to give the prescribed opinions. Be careful: the 5 Star Movement will watch closely, together with the civil society that supports this measure, so that the use of these "tricks" no longer has to repeat itself. In fact, this is not the only bill that, in words, everyone supports, but that in fact is boycotted by the majority, in its process of approval. The main measure, as regards various obstacles and boycotts, is probably the law against corruption, which everyone wants in words but, in practice, is repeatedly postponed for almost two years and which will presumably land, at least for that part that remains and survives, next week in the Chamber, for the second time. The first time it had been scheduled in conjunction with the European elections and the issue of the Tangentopoli linked to Expo 2015. Too bad that, surreptitiously, the same majority took it off the agenda at the end of the election. It is good to remember that, because now it comes to this House in conjunction with the regional elections: and we hope that this will be the right time. The main question is that it is not a political majority in the Commission as well as in the House that determines the choices of the Government, but the Government that dictates its choices to its political majority in Parliament. All this said, however, today we write an important page of this legislature, approving a measure of civilization, of common sense, long awaited by hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens. As anticipated, my invitation to all Members of the Senate of all Groups who, like us in the 5 Star Movement, will vote in favour of this measure is to follow it - within their own Groups - even in the successive stages of approval, so that it can, therefore, be quickly approved also in the Chamber of Deputies, for once putting the interest of citizens before the much more vile one, of the party of belonging. I therefore declare the 5 Star Movement's vote in favour of this measure and I thank with the opportunity the citizens and the committees that have worked, have been active and have been close to us in this battle, coming even to the hunger strike, with an action that I would like to define as "breath on the neck," which is typical of our Movement and which has certainly helped to achieve this final result. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u120	As there are only a few minutes until the sitting is closed, and there are several requests for intervention on items not on the agenda, I would postpone the follow-up of the examination of the drafts of law for the afternoon sitting of tomorrow, after the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. As there are no comments, so it remains established.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u123	Orellana (Mist). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with this brief speech I would like to draw your attention to the increasingly unsustainable situation of our two navy rifles: Salvatore Girone, currently detained in India, and Massimiliano Latorre, who is temporarily in Italy, but with a commitment to return to India. It is an affair that has been dragging for more than three years now, that is, since the Italian merchant Enrica Lexie was brought back, with the deception, to India by the Indian authorities, to proceed to the arrest of our two compatriots with the accusation, never formalized through accusations and referral to trial, of having caused the death of two Indian fishermen in international waters. What is certain, however, is that our two Maròs were engaged in the fight against piracy. I do not go further in the reconstruction of the matter, to all of you known. On this occasion I would like to stress and recall that the way of internationalisation of this case had been evaluated by all as the main road, which could finally lead to its solution. Internationalization necessarily passes from an increased awareness of the international community on this incredible story. I would therefore like to come to the point: in the conclusions of the Interparliamentary Conferences on the Common Foreign and Security Policy and the Common Security and Defence Policy of 2014, held in Athens and Rome, it was expressed on both occasions, a deep concern for the two Italian Maros and EU citizens detained in India since February 2012. It was also stressed that the case should be resolved in full compliance with international law and the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) These indications had been reported thanks to the activity of the Italian delegation (of which I have honored to be part), which had sensitized the various delegations on the case of Latorre and Girone. On the contrary, unfortunately, at the last Interparliamentary Conference on the Common Foreign and Security Policy and the Common Security and Defence Policy in early March 2015, held in Riga, Latvia, this concern about our two Marathons is no longer present in the concluding document. Nothing about the resolution of the case in compliance with international law. I would therefore like to share with you the deep regret of this inattention, to use euphemism, in such an important assembly. This forgetfulness, this lack of participation and closeness on the part of our partners in the European Union does not honour an institution of which we have been a member since its foundation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u126	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Mr President, tonight I would like to make this speech to thank the prosecutors and the law enforcement forces for their excellent work. I would also like to express, from the Upper Chamber of the Senate, solidarity and closeness to all those who work for the State with capital "S" and who are all too often left alone, without means and with few tools. Mafias and crime can be defeated by being together and having a clear goal; when there is will, it can be done. You are not alone and do not feel alone: we are there, resist. I also hope that no political representative and above all no illustrious institutional office will try to exert pressure to cut or stifle uncomfortable investigative sections or to make attempts to approach prosecutors to somehow persuade them to slow down the investigations that link the worlds in the middle of the political world. It would be a very serious act, especially in this sensitive historical moment. I conclude by thanking also all the people who every day live their lives in honesty and respecting the rules. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u129	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, this speech is to ask the answer to my question 4-03454 of 17 February, sent to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. It concerns the NCA shipyards of Marina di Carrara, where 43 workers of the yard have been suffering for months. At first they were isolated inside a room, without being able to carry out any work, unworthy of turning their thumbs. For a few days some of them have been involved in carpentry-welding training courses, i.e. carpenters-welding machines learn how to make welders-carpenters. Meanwhile they work in the NCA external companies - I stress - that use carpenters-welding machines. One wonders why, then, they do not let workers of the company who have always worked in the sector work. Think that for two years NCA workers have been engaged in training and specialization courses. There are also some employees in "naphaline," who are not reinserted and at the same time work in interns in the offices. They even tell me that one of the "confined" workers, deaf-mute, was enrolled in an English course. The facts are that the business development plan has never been implemented and the Navalmechanics, which was to be developed in the NCA, is firm. But what further disturbs all workers on the construction site are the psychological pressures to which they are subjected. I have received a CD with recordings, in which you listen to passages in the company that well make you understand the state of precariousness and insecurity that hangs in the NCA; statements made by those who give orders to workers, in which even possible delays in the payment of wages are threatened. From the recordings you can hear phrases such as: "Make extraordinary at least until 8.30 p.m. and coming also on Saturday; I want to be clear with everyone, I do not accept any of your proposals. And know that salaries are in great danger of being delayed. It has been made clear that there may be differences in the payment of wages for no specific reason, as well as strong risks to take advantage of the holidays. You still listen, addressed to the workers: "I don't want comments from anyone, not even from those responsible." And again: I say this brutally: if you are not adequate, go away. In short, if the workers of the NCA do not accept the conditions dictated by Chinese work, where the worker is considered equal to the working tools, that they leave. We believed that these behaviors belonged to the past or to Bangladesh's production processes, but I have the clear feeling that in Italy you will have to get used to it. During the days spent in Massa-Carrara, meetings and provincial tables were held, also with the representatives of the company NCA. However, the company did not give exhaustive answers to the problems raised, and left doubts about the actual, future placement in operational roles of the 43 workers. We have the impression that time is being taken: some people speculate to put workers back into the social security fund by summer at the expense of the community. But the initial transfer agreements to the new property are not these. I would therefore ask Mr Poletti at this point to give his opinion as a matter of urgency. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Italians, take note!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u130	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-411.ana.u131	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 18 March, in two public sessions, the first at 9 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.55 p.m.
