ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.08 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 30 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 15,14 hours) begins. I suspend the sitting for 30 minutes because, as you know, the Presidency Council is in the process of being held. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 3.15 p.m. and resumed at 15.56 p.m.) Colleagues, the work of the Presidency Council is still under way. I therefore suspend the sitting once again. (The sitting was suspended at 15.57 p.m. and resumed at 17.01 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u4	The President's Council, integrated in accordance with Rule 12 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, deepened the events that took place during the session of the Assembly on Friday 2 October, deeply deplored all the conduct carried out by senators and senators belonging to different Groups, who upset the order of business and assumed towards the institution, the Presidency, the Secretary Senators, attitudes and uses of censorable and deplorable language. From this moment no derogation will be allowed to the principles of correctness due to the Senate and to each of its members. The Heads of Groups will have to work with the Presidency so that they do not have to repeat themselves. During the same sitting, specific events of unacceptable seriousness took place, which offended the dignity of people and institutions and undermined the authority and credibility of the entire Assembly, precisely when the work focused on one of the highest and most significant themes of parliamentary activity, such as the reform of the Constitution. The vulgarity of some gestures and expressions is beyond any rule of civilization. The institutions, women and men, inside and outside the Senate have been offended. For these reasons, the following sanctions are imposed, with immediate effect, pursuant to Rule 67 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure. With regard to Senators Lucio Barani and Vincenzo D'Anna, the ban to participate in the Senate's work for five days of session. With regard to Senator Alberto Airola, the ban to participate in the Senate's work for a day of session. [[Ironic applause from Senator Airola.]] Senator Gianluca Castaldi is being censored. AIROLA (M5S). Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. At the Lega Nord-Autonomie Group the censorship for the conduct held at the sitting of Thursday, 1 October is imposed. The Presidency also agreed to extend its assessments to other events which occurred at the same sitting on 1 October. To this end, further convocation of the Council will take place once the necessary elements of inquiry have been acquired.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u5	The next item is the resolution on the opinion delivered by the first standing Commission, pursuant to Article 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, on the existence of the conditions of necessity and urgency required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, for the draft law n. 2070: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 153 of 30 September 2015 on urgent measures for public finance" At its meeting on 2 October the first standing Commission gave a favourable opinion on the existence of these conditions and requirements. Subsequently, by the prescribed number of senators, the vote of the Assembly was requested on that opinion. I am asking the extensor of the opinion, Senator Migliavacca, if he intends to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u6	Mr President, I rise to confirm the favourable opinion on the existence of the constitutional prerequisites of necessity and urgency, as this Decree-Law cancels the increase in excise duties on motor fuels, which would have been taken automatically since 30 September this year, as a result of the European Commission's failure to authorise the extension of the reverse charge mechanism, the reversal of VAT accounting to large-scale distribution. Therefore, the conditions of necessity and urgency seem obvious to me. The decree-law, in substance, acts on the rules concerning the voluntary emergence of assets and capital transferred abroad. For these reasons, I confirm the favourable opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would remind you that you will be able to speak no more than one representative per Group for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u9	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called to express ourselves on the draft law for the conversion of Decree-Law No 153, whose presuppositions of urgency are based on the fact that it was issued on the day when the Italians would have seen the cost, and for the umpteenth time, of gasoline with the objective of raising well 728 million euros in just three months, thanks to a rule wanted by Prime Minister Matteo Renzi himself in the law of stability for 2015. This is despite the fact that the price of oil is falling everywhere. As everyone knows, the Government, already with Decree-Law No. 78 of 19 June last year, had moved the date of the increase of excise duties on fuels, provided for by Article 632 of the Stability Act of 2015, from 30 June to 30 September. And it has always done so with a decree-law, albeit with a slight advance to the date of activation of the excise increases. In this case the government arrives on the wool wire on the same day of the increases and for this reason it is obliged to resort again to the decree of urgency. Sloppy way to legislate. But why does the Government feel the need for this umpteenth forcing of the legislative process, contrary also to the invitation of the President of the Republic, who, President, with a great sense of responsibility, has highlighted, wishing to respect parliamentary prerogatives? Couldn't you think of that in time? The answer is simple. It could not, because the Government has never been able to carry out an overall review of unproductive expenditure, despite the repeated and roboating announcements that have referred to the Cottarelli report and to all the pursuit of safeguard clauses inserted a little 'everywhere: for example, the safeguard clause that turns into a real trap for taxpayers citizens, when they are now vexed by an unsustainable tax pressure. That is why in constitutional reform we had prepared a special amendment - ahinoi rejected - with the introduction of the 40% tax ceiling in the Constitution. So the Premier, with a sort of acute announcement pathology, is now obliged to decree - as always - with urgency, in spite of the provisions of Article 77 of the Constitution, moving forward the terms for the return of capital and thus hoping to make cash in order to cancel an increase of the taxes on the fuels that he himself arranged and that, if activated, would deny all the announcements. This way of doing things denotes and certifies the lack of respect of the Government towards Parliament and the Constitution. Yet the resources expected by voluntary disclosure, the subject of this decree-law, remain something very random for a coverage that instead must be certain and solid in order to cancel the perverse effects of the safeguard clauses. (17.10 p.m.) There is a very long list of these tax traps introduced by governments, which then have to jump deadly to block them, when and if they succeed. Between the Letta Government and the Renzi Government there are numerous increases in excise duties contained in various legislative provisions. I remember those relating to the increase in VAT; I remember overall the increases in excise duty which are also charged with a further tax, which is that of VAT. One has been activated with the decree to make for 91,5 million euros of excise increases on gasoline and diesel, and they have already been collected; others are there, like the Damocles sword on the citizens' portfolio, which will weigh more than 1.4 billion, starting from 2016, to which will be added another 988 million euros in 2018. However, there are other reasons for great concern, because we have not finished the list. As everyone knows, the Stability Act for 2015 not only provides for increases in excise duties, but also increases in VAT. From 1 January next VAT rates will start the upward race, with a predictable regressive effect on consumption. Since 2018, VAT, which is 22 percent today, will rise to 25.5 percent, and what is now 10 percent will rise to 13 percent. The abused safeguard clauses, in addition to generating a deterrent effect on investment by entrepreneurs who no longer feel guaranteed, have a devastating effect on the attractiveness of investments by third countries. Coming to Decree-Law No 153 of 30 September 2015, retracing the reasons behind the norm, I recall that the underlying problem arises from the economic cover necessary to cover the European rejection of one of the two anti-evasion mechanisms developed by the Government: the reverse charge (the one rejected) and the split payment (authorized only until 2017). The combination of these two measures should have ensured an estimated recovery of EUR 1.7 billion. The safeguard clause included in the Stability Act 2015, in Article 1, was intended precisely to compensate for the failure to enter in the event of a rejection from Brussels by means of the abused increases in excise duties on petrol. When the reverse charge brake arrived at the end of May last, the increase in the price of petrol was almost inevitable from 1 July to try to plug the hole of 728 million euros imposed on the public accounts. This hole - it is worth remembering - is buffered for 2015 through the shift of the date scheduled for the voluntary collaboration procedure to 30 November 2015, as provided by the decree-law to our examination. Fortunately, the Commission approved the split payment mechanism, but only until 31 December 2017, which is expected to lead to EUR 988 million per annum. And here we want to light a beacon and ring the alarm bell: the problem will arise when, at the date indicated, the European Union's authorisation to split payment has ceased, the safeguard clause that is now frozen will be triggered. The hole at that time will be just 988 million a year. Gentlemen of the Government, let us think about this in time: it is 988 million more VAT, which in the meantime, if things have not changed, will have reached 25.5%. Therefore, the decree in question comes in short swings and on the wave of commercials and declarations with effect from the Premier, but it is not conclusive because from 1 January 2016 it is necessary to find another 728 million in order to avoid the increase of excise duties, to permanently sterilize the clauses still active and to block the increases of the VAT. Gentlemen of the Government, instead of demagogicizing 80 euro bonus barrels whose effects have not been seen or, worse, giving alms like the bonus to pensioners, instead of giving them what was due as a result of the ruling of the Constitutional Court last month, we want to think seriously and in time about how to avoid new bloodshed to the Italians by stopping the increases provided by the Government through excise duties and VAT? For this reason, I have already announced that the Conservatives and Reformists Group will seek to formulate amending proposals in the sense of reducing the tax burden, leaving to the Government the task of identifying the appropriate cover through the reduction of unproductive public expenditure. In the meantime I suggest to the Government, if it is able, to recover quickly a minimum sense of responsibility and to speak to the Italians with the language of truth, starting by saying that they are not absolutely reducing taxes: if anything, it is trying, with great effort, to reduce, at least in part, the large increases of leaps that have been introduced in recent years, which determine a very serious stagnation of the country's economy, with the risk of a serious social implosion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u12	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the use of the instrument of urgent decree by the Commission cannot find any justification other than those enshrined in Article 77 of the Constitution: that is, the reasons for necessity and urgency must be linked to the extraordinary nature of the event that must be regulated in good time. On the other hand, the decree-law in question seeks to remedy the effects of a rule introduced in an opportunistic and instrumental way only in order to be able to enact the law of stability within the prescribed time-limits. First of all, it is necessary to reason on how the Government, already in the phase of the approval of the law of stability, had introduced the safeguard clause because it was unable to comply with or purposely intend to circumvent the constitutional provisions enshrined in Article 81, which provide for the necessary financial coverage of the measures that are launched. This concept, which must be the basis of legislation, finds an even stronger foundation when it comes to the annual law that defines the economic stability of the entire country. The Constitutional Court, in judgment No 10 of 2015, had already reaffirmed that the unreasonable, arbitrary and unjustified use of discretionary powers in tax matters of the legislator is unconstitutional, determining, by analogy, the unconstitutional nature of financial cover that in fact does not protect the balance of the budget since they produce effects conditioned over time to the occurrence of certain conditions and therefore subject to a randomness that in fact does not determine the certainty of the coverage. The need and urgency are therefore not justified, because they refer to an intervention whose need was foreseeable from the time of the adoption of the rule on voluntary collaboration. A misuse of urgent legislation by the Government once again rejects Parliament in fact and deprives it of its legislative function. It is obvious that an improper exercise of the legislative function by the Commission could lead to a tacit transformation of the form of government into a single-brain premiered regime and, with the reform of the Constitution that we are about to launch, this will certainly be taken for granted. These considerations are broadly confirmed by the Commission's insane management of constitutional reforms as well. The roles of Parliament, the political majority and the government at this historic stage are visibly altered in the ways of interpreting the rules, laws and the Constitution itself. The Government and the political majority that supports it act without any respect for the oppositions, therefore going to undermine the very concept on which our Democratic Republic is founded, as enshrined in Article 1 of the Charter in the process of demolition, through which, stating that sovereignty belongs to the people who exercise it mainly through the exercise of the right to vote, they protect the legitimate expectations of minorities represented by oppositions in Parliament. Turning to the merit of Decree-Law No. 153, the Government essentially wants to extend the period of activation of the voluntary disclosure, the so-called voluntary collaboration, to heal a budget hole of 728 million euros. In fact, with the last law of stability (Law No 190 of 2014), the government had planned to collect this money through the reverse charge mechanism, which I remember in this House only the North League opposed through amendments in the Commission and also in the Chamber. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Basically, the reverse charge mechanism plans to take away the possibility of not collecting VAT from suppliers of large retailers when they provide goods and services, with the objective then declared by the Government to combat tax evasion. It is insane, Mr President, because if the European Union had not, as it were, put a piece of cloth in it, had not cancelled this forecast, it would have led to the failure of hundreds and hundreds of companies which would have left thousands and thousands of employees out of work. There would have been a huge cash problem for these large retailers, so this is once again a crazy operation: taking away money from companies. Similarly, tens of billions are still waiting for those companies that provide public services and works to the public administration. In this regard I would still like to remind you that on September 21, 2015, we have not yet seen Prime Minister Renzi fulfill the promise to walk to Monte Senario, because on that date Prime Minister Renzi had assured that all debts contracted by the public administration would be paid to the suppliers. On the other hand, it seems that 70 billion still have to be collected from these suppliers who are really at risk of closure, not because of a lack of work, but because of a lack of revenue for the work carried out in favour of the public administration. A series of mess like those of the safeguard clause (still the stability law of 2015), which still needs to be defused and provides for an increase that would be fatal for consumption as far as normal VAT is concerned, that of 22%, which would go up to 24 and then 25, even though it is also about the reduced VAT of 10 percent that would go up to 12 percent. In short, a lot of mess that is not finished, also because we have heard, in the past hours, Prime Minister Renzi give two absolutely negative news. For three weeks, he spoke of a total elimination of IMU and TASI on the first dwelling. Yesterday we discovered that partially, if not totally, the financial coverage of this demagogic operation, as was demagogic the operation of the 80 euros, will be totally or, partially paid with an increase of the IMU on the second houses. Therefore, once again the Italians will be forced to record the game of the three tablets: they remove a tax on one side and put it on the other. As well as very worrying is the other anticipation given yesterday by Prime Minister Renzi: that of wanting to extort the RAI fee through its payment in the electric bill. We wonder what the supply of electricity has to do with the payment of what is not a tariff, because that of the public service is not a service, but a real tax. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] And we wonder if the electric bills that will be burdened by this obolo will concern exclusively the first houses or even the second and third houses; whether it will concern the condominium utilities or whether it will concern the studies of the free professionals, the workshops of the craftsmen even the enterprises. However, on the horizon there are still great scams for Italians, as well as serious scam was the prediction of reverse charge.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u15	CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, when in a family one member, worse if his father, is reduced to ruin, in his tragedy he drags others. When a Government decides to self-limit its spending possibilities, it tangles itself in an ever-increasing set of taxes and reduced services, which reduces the society that governs in the conditions in which Italian society has been reduced. When in May the European Commission rejected the rule that the reverse charge (reverse charge) should be extended to large-scale distribution, the lack of funds for the State of 728 million was determined. It was necessary to avoid the implementation of the safeguard clause and this the Government knew before May. That this way of obtaining the funds was of dubious legitimacy, that there was a risk of a denial coming from Europe that we knew it before. The government has been studying, taking some time. Among other things, the possibility of further extension of the deadline for voluntary cooperation for the return of capital has been identified. This measure, however, comes out close to the deadline becoming urgent. But is it an actual urgency or a provoked urgency? And if it's provoked, why is it? As my colleagues have already pointed out, this way of law-making, which has now been taken over by the governments that have followed in recent years, is based on a substantial lack of respect for the role of Parliament and for what is due to it, namely the legislative power - except as provided for in Article 77 of the Constitution and Law No 400 of 1988, which regulates the order of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers - which is normally ignored from time to time. Now, as I said, it was foreseeable that the European Commission would reject the extension of the reverse charge, because it did not know exactly how much it would come from that measure and why it was and is doubtful how effective it is as an anti-fraud instrument, since VAT fraud should be countered with tax police controls, which our governments always claim to do, but they never do to the full. Now, this necessity and urgency demanded by the Government and proposed by the rapporteur are all policies, aimed at masking the government's ineptitude to affect the problem. Above all, I would like to point out that the further extension for the expiry of voluntary disclosure lays down the conditions for further irregularities in the exit and return of capital from abroad. And those who are actually damaged are the citizens who pay taxes, those who cannot or do not want to do anything to avoid paying them; and they are those citizens who see the state's attention to their rights reduced. I would remind you that with the return of capital it was anticipated that the problem of late payments of commercial debts of the public administration would be attacked and that national co-financing programmes for development and social cohesion, public investment and the reduction of the tax burden would be financed. On the other hand, as my colleagues, among other things, have just mentioned, everything is mentioned in one passing the money from one box to another, from one debtor to another, as does the insolvent one, risking to ruin, besides himself, the others. For this reason, we in the Mixed Group, SEL and L'Altra Europa with Tsipras will vote against the constitutional requirements of this decree. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u18	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, we are talking about an extension, plus a derogation, on the "voluntari disclosure," I say it just as we read, provocatively, because, when they give us an English term, something is often wrong and they hide the nature of the measure. With this decree-law, the Government facilitates the laundering of money held abroad illegally, subtracting the perpetrators from criminal sanctions. We could say that he is therefore responsible for competition in tax evasion. (Senator Endrizzi addressed the PD Group) Yeah, I know it makes you smile what I'm saying, but you'll see that it's actually serious. Law No 186 of 2014 allowed those who illegally held foreign capital to regularise them by September 30 of this year with a mockery sanction. This decree-law grants two more months of time and also allows to regularize money on anonymous accounts or with fictitious headers open abroad, without - I repeat - criminal consequences in the matter of anti-money laundering provided for by Legislative Decree n. 231 of 2007 including them expressly among the beneficiaries. But who are the classic users of anonymous accounts or with fictitious headers? Mafia, 'ndrangheta, camorra, great evaders and - we read - even politicians. This was enough to triple the estimate of demands, over 100,000. What about this pardon, yet another of an endless series? That the government has an assault: the repeated behavior. Now, remember Bersani in the election campaign for this legislature? February 2013: "Never more condone!" That's the betrayal. For PD there could also be an abuse of popular credulity. This rule has been proposed as a virtuous one. A way to bring out black. But let's not be attracted by poor reasoning: well rather than nothing, let's pick something up. Nossignori, this measure also favors the new illegality, because it confirms that it is better to escape, then will arrive the safe sanatoria for the big fish as sure is Equitalia for the little ones. And I don't feel like excluding perhaps more complex and more difficult forms, perverse mechanisms such as the fiscal shield: in some foreign banks there were surges in demand for credit. What's with those days? Because a criminal could ask for a loan abroad, bring that money with the shield to Italy and then repay the debt, perhaps in Luxembourg, with the future proceeds of drugs. Future lawlessness has also been "suited." Coming today, if a law that should bring out black instead encourages it, it is an irrational law that violates Article 3 of the Constitution. Finally, in the form of a decree-law, is it really necessary and urgent in accordance with Article 77 of the Constitution? The government says that this provision is urgent because the procedure for obtaining this benefit is complex, but the law is last year. It says that it is urgent because documents are required from abroad and it takes time, but for some time we ask the Government to act in Europe to eliminate once and for all the so-called offshore areas that other countries of the Union (Great Britain, Holland, as well as the most well-known tax havens such as Luxembourg) use to attract illegally exported capital - probably the result of tax evasion - with trust and corporate shields that guarantee its anonymity. Result: zero. But the government insists: it is urgent. Urgent for who? The truth is that the government has been rejected by the European Commission on reverse charge, another scam hidden by an English term. Reverse charge for VAT in the retail sector, which, according to the European Commission, did not guarantee to contain fraud, did not guarantee more revenue. There was therefore no need (we said so, we had foreseen it) and therefore the safeguard rules that increased excise duties on petrol (and this too, you will remember, we said so). In order not to admit this failure it is necessary to cash in another way. Who was thinking that, at least, does not increase petrol, stay calm: the increase in excise duties is only postponed to the end of the year. It is right to avoid the increase in excise duties, but it should be remembered that the Government is the fault, that it has identified an inappropriate coverage (and then comes to tell us that there is no money for the income of citizenship?). It is not correct that resources are being rocketed now by rewarding those who have illegally and illegally transferred large amounts of capital abroad, in violation of tax regulations and who have not even joined the facilitated procedure within the time limits granted. To cover its shortcomings, the Government mortifies honest people and encourages new capital flows. The principle of equality (referred to in Article 3 of the Constitution) is violated with respect to honest taxpayers, but also with respect to evaders who have made themselves in order within the defined time limits. The confidence in the progressive nature of the tax system, as referred to in Article 53 (2) of the Constitution, is even greater, threatening citizens and honest businesses who otherwise increase the price of petrol. Unfortunately it is not over: with this double - extension plus derogation - we save those who from 1 October would have remained exposed to the cross-check of the current accounts by the tax administration and the prosecutors that in several Italian cities are investigating cases of illegal export of capital and the consequent possible tax crimes. Already in May the Supreme Council of the judiciary has emphasized and stigmatized the normative structure of the law that - textual words - "Impedes on these facts investigations also for recycling, so many conducted (economic transactions linked to corrupting events) remain opaque. Gentlemen, to this we should also add aiding, but none of you will answer for this because you are doing it with a decree-law and prove that the concept of illegality has now been emptied, since the illegal is constantly being made legal. That is why the 5 Star Movement speaks of honesty and not of legality: honesty, a concept as vital in politics and society as it is lost over time. An honest government would at least have introduced a kind of bonus for the late-delayers in relation to the sanctions, which were, in fact, ridiculous, initially laid down. On the other hand, almost all sanctions for breaches of tax monitoring are actually halved for these players, and those on taxes due for accession are severely reduced, and payment is also paid in instalments. We are not talking about a company that doesn't pay contributions because it doesn't make it, but about people who have gotten rich and brought money abroad (I mean that black with whom you pay corruption). From the preparatory work of Law No 186 of 15 December 2014, it was clear that no derogation could be allowed, however it was intended to include clearly among the benefits provided by the procedure anonymous accounts and with fictitious headers. You think that many instances are packaged across borders by professionals in the industry... [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, I am concluding and thank you for your kindness. I was talking about the professionals who work to circumvent the anti-money laundering obligations. The connection between the emergence of capital held abroad, the result of a tax offence, and the re-use of such sums by the same person is considered clear: we are talking about self-recycling. Moreover, by signing an authorization for the exchange of information, the latter is allowed to leave the assets abroad, without even having to bring them back to Italy. Therefore, we do not find any need for this decree-law, as the resulting benefits are random and, at best, only provisional, since it covers only the year 2015, while the risk of the increase of excise duties on fuels remains fixed in three months, in 2016. The urgency is all of the Government, to mask its mistakes and inertias; the Executive waited until September 30 and could not invent anything more than the umpteenth offense to the honest. Furthermore, the continued use of shared measures (I am thinking of freezing excise duties) or the problem of cross-border workers is very vulgar in order to bring about measures that favour dishonest people and cover us with shame in the eyes of young people and the world. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u21	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). Mr President, I am speaking to stigmatize a course of government which I do not hesitate to define specifically unhealthy, for a very simple reason. As we examine the urgency requirements of this measure, we cannot help but note that this urgency has actually been largely planned for almost a year. In fact, in the reasons that lead Brussels to prevent Italy from applying the reverse charge, there is the very clear one of Article 395 of the Treaty, which identifies the fact that the procedure must not be used systematically to mask the inadequate supervision of the tax authorities of a State. In other words, Italy did what it did wrong because it tried to buy time; it did not try to find a solution to the problems that arose, but it simply posed the problem of delaying over time the solution of any problems. So basically put what at risk? We understand that from the other passages that the Commission makes on this subject. The Commission - says the text of the Brussels note - has reason to doubt that an indistinguishable and comprehensive application of reverse charge to a large number of products, in this case mainly intended for final consumption, could be considered a special measure provided for in Article 395 of the VAT Directive. Moreover, the Commission has serious doubts that the measure would have the positive impact expected of the Italian authorities, because it is suitable for the prevention of carousel fraud, but not of all the others leading to VAT evasion. Finally, the Italian authorities have not shown that the type of goods in question cannot be controlled by conventional means, which would have justified the need to implement the reverse charge. What do these last passages of the Commission note show? That the Italian Government, in order to buy time, has put its reputation in jeopardy in the relationship with the European institutions, that is, is creating substantially the fame of a state and an unreliable Government, which is the antechamber of what makes up the accounts to stay in Europe. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u24	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we are at the thirty-ninth Decree-Law of the Renzi Government, once again characterized by the absence of the prerequisites of necessity and urgency under Article 77 of the Constitution and characterized, in this case, by procedural pathologies that perhaps go beyond the last comment on the constitutional conditions and the constitutional prejudices, which we have accustomed ourselves to doing, colleagues, almost as if it were a rite. It is true that in democracy numbers count and, therefore, the majority wins. It is equally true, however, that pathologies are not healed by numbers. If constitutional illegitimacy exists, if the decree-law is, as it is, for the umpteenth time used improperly with respect to what the Constitution provides, it is not enough reassuring numbers to make the provision constitutionally legitimate. I appreciated Mr Migliavacca's remarks - which he had already anticipated in the Commission - on the need to reduce an increase in excise duty by EUR 800 million from 30 September last year. It is equally true, however, that we cannot continue in this issue, ladies and gentlemen, because we are going beyond the constitutional illegitimacy and beyond the will of power of Nietzsche's memory of this President of the Council, who told us a year and a few months ago that he would govern without recourse to the decree of urgency, breaking the general urgency of providing typical of the first Republic. On this we were also comforted by a President of the Republic who had installed himself saying that he would be a discreet referee, provided that the players were loyal and did not make use of the decree-laws improperly. We were comforted by this fact: 39 decree-laws do not reassure us, they frighten us very much, but here we are beyond constitutional illegitimacy. Colleagues, here we are to the over-chism, improvisation, the inability to manage in a professional and competent way the budget post and the public finances. We have before us a government that does not know how to manage public finance and that chases the emergency. The scenario that the previous colleagues have traced is disturbing, I would say terrifying: we are still talking about the harmful consequences of the stability law for 2015, where, in order to simulate a reduction in taxes that never happened, we have created - indeed, I correct myself: they have created - a garden of safeguard clauses that involves an increase of taxes, taxes and jumps around 30 billion euros, for the period 2016-2018 - I am reasoning by default and not for excess - that we are trying to heal - now yes, together - to avoid the increase. This has been well remembered by my previous colleagues, so I will not dwell on it, for lack of time. We must ensure that excise duties on motor fuel and VAT are not increased to the detriment of all citizens. At this moment we are healing a well-known disease, which Europe had already told us to be impossible to achieve, starting from February this year. We all knew that Europe would never allow this Government to reverse VAT. We know this from February 2015 and from a major case-law of the Court of Justice, which says that VAT cannot be reversed, except in conditions of necessity, balance, proportionality and above all quota of the times, induced by a real requirement of the Member State to combat tax evasion in an effective manner. Europe has also always told us that the reverse charge, which is allowed only for the internal market, for cross-border business to business services, cannot be applied erga omnes, because this - it has already been mentioned and therefore I will quote it only in a synthetic way, by points - damages the large distribution, causes large distributors to be forced to make forceful loans to the Revenue Agency, depriving themselves of a useful liquidity to restart growth. It also damages retailing, creating mechanisms of reimbursement, contractions and inverted contributions, which cause damage to retailers as well as consumers and is not effective for the fight against avoidance or evasion and is, above all, a procedure that we knew was not applicable to our country. We have therefore waited - and here is the first violation of the Constitution - for the Government to use the right measure, i.e. a bill, since February and, officially, since May, heard a reply from the European Commission. He could have presented a bill to heal the pathology of the safeguard clause that had been discovered by the lack of a reversal of VAT accounting, which was not a measure against tax evasion and avoidance, but a way of making a quick cashier. From this, the usual, usual improvisation of this Government in the management of public finance. We all knew this, ladies and gentlemen: why wait to do so hastily, after having postponed it, on 30 June, with the measure on territorial authorities, to 30 September? Why is a decree-law issued now - the usual decree-law - which, as we know, is not even covered? You know that the so-called voluntary disclosure, on whose contents it is not given to entertain now for lack of time, has previsional criteria of very "pannometric" revenue: the terms for the submission of questions are not yet decorated and we know that in the first term, on 20 September, there have been 60,000 accessions, for a guideline revenue of 1.4 billion euros, with which this amateur government, with an amateur approach in the management of public finance, wants to cover not only a mail of 800 million euros, but also the abolition of the IMU, the tax on the first house, which costs three and a half times more. Colleagues, this is already over Rule 81. We're passing through another constitutional precept. As usual, we are not only committing constitutional illegitimacy - we are voting against, but, unfortunately, as we have said, the majority with these numbers wins, even if this is constitutionally illegitimate - but we are also witnessing the violation of a budget post sanctioned by Article 81. Once again, we are witnessing a non-professional, non-competent, improvised management of tax revenue from this Government. More, colleagues. In addition to covering two impossible posts with a revenue not yet defined, because - said the colleagues who preceded me - on 30 November the expectations of demand for forgiveness (or what will be, voluntary disclosure) by the taxpayers, on 30 December there will be the collection of all the documentation - we are in 2015 - but the examination of the questions will take place on 31 December 2016. Colleagues, it is okay that here to speak of content is almost obscene, but we observe a decree-law, which must be characterized by necessity and urgency, to a norm with deferred effectiveness, which will complete its function only in 2016, and this - allow me - not for political reasons but speaking aseptically technically, is a constitutional disaster. Let us vote on it, but with the awareness, ours and those who look at us out there, that a constitutional disaster is being committed. [[Senator Tonini's comments.]] We do not know, Mr Tonini, how much will be gained by voluntary disclosure. Please, ladies and gentlemen, I am providing objective data: we do not know, from here to 2016, what will be the revenue of voluntary disclosure. However, we have the arrogance to cover the post with revenue that we do not know the amount of. We do not know how many sanctions will be imposed; we do not know what they will be, we do not know what the number of final applications will be. Therefore, we have incertus an, incertus when and incertus quantum; perhaps a little too much uncertainty to cover two posts: the increase of excise duties and the abolition of the IMU. I shall conclude by saying that this is not even structural in nature. We know that voluntary disclosure is a one-off measure, a revenue that will come only for the time when the return of capital will be consumed. So we are trying to engage in structural measures such as the reduction of a tax to one-off measures. If I cannot call a procedure of this kind to a halt, ladies and gentlemen, suggest another situation in which I can spend this expression. Again, what we are doing now does not apply to the years 2016, 2017 and 2018; no, it applies only for three months, only for those three months of 2015 that will be covered by this measure. So, in three months' time, we'll be at the head of this government's improvisation, with its fantasy and creativity in the field of public finance, and it's gonna be up against itself again. In all this, then, we must also hear that the taxes will be lowered, that the IMU, the IRES, the corporation tax will be reduced: but with what budget items? Usually those who reduce a tax must also announce by what cost cut they intend to cover the measure. This is not done, not only. (17.57) (BERNINI followed). Not only that, the announcement is relaunched indefinitely by proposing these measures to Parliament. It is clear, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that my parliamentary group is absolutely convinced once again of the absence of recurrence of those constitutional conditions, based not only on Article 77 of the Constitution but also on Article 81, which would make this measure legitimate, not only from a technical point of view but also from a political point of view. Unfortunately, we are experiencing absolutely exceptional times in which everything is changing: we are unfortunately lifting the plug to Africa; we are seeing climate change that devastate not only our country, but cross-border countries and the world; we have come out of the recession but we are still in the midst of an economic crisis. For the management of these times it takes an exceptional capacity of government and leadership, a strategic forecasting capacity that is structural, not cyclical; not a game of the three cards on the public budget post, but a definitive prediction ability, to have a definitive lighthouse on the government of the public thing and the economy, which this Government obviously does not have. That is why, once again, I am voting against my parliamentary group. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u25	We shall now proceed to the vote. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the favourable opinion expressed by the first standing Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of the conditions required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, with regard to Decree-Law No 153. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u28	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to take advantage of the passage from one item to another on the agenda to remind you of a necessity. A year ago two Bergamo girls were kidnapped, Greta Ramelli and Vanessa Marzullo, then freed in a rather rocambolesque way. Today we learn, from reports from Syria, that in a court in the province of Aleppo one of the kidnappers would be condemned for the fact that he himself would pocket a part of the sum paid as bribes for the ransom: 5 million euros out of 11 million. We believe that the issue is a gravity and a heaviness that cannot be overlooked. We would like to know from Mr Gentiloni, first of all, why he did not come to Parliament to tell us things that were not true, since he said that they were all lies and that all this had no foundation; secondly, how can we manage 11 million out of the budget, spend them so that they are nowhere. We believe that the hearing of Mr Gentiloni in order to clarify the matter is an extremely urgent matter to be put on the agenda and to our attention. [[Applause from Senator Comaroli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u31	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I am speaking only to leave it to the proceedings of this sitting, which I am very disappointed that issues relating to a unfortunately unfortunate reality such as Syria are being raised in this House. I do not believe that in the Aleppo court we can trust more than that, given the situation in Aleppo and its surroundings. To take for good pseudorevelations of this type, even calling into question the Government and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, seems completely inappropriate, because our country is stronger than some vulgar exploitations that can have no effect on us, if we are mature people politically. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u34	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, President Casini referred to a very complex reality, where perhaps not all the leaking information is reliable. Unfortunately, however, in this case the type of news, the way in which it was disclosed and the subject matter are of such delicacy that we demand that the Minister come to report and confirm what he said (but now with the doubt that someone might deny it). [[Comments of Senator Tonini]] Indeed, Mr President, when there is someone who gives and someone who receives, the giver can always say that he has never done so, but there is always another part that can say otherwise one day. Perhaps now is the time for the Minister, given that he has made those statements in a clear way, to report, if possible in this House and not, perhaps, in restricted areas, as he has done in the past, allowing Parliament's debate on this issue, so that we can deal with it once and for all. Too many times, in fact, in the past there have been shadows over the alleged or unsuspected payments of ransom. Too many times. It is therefore appropriate that the Minister Gentiloni or other Ministers or Undersecretaries, who may have had roles in this process, come and report to the Assembly on what has happened, saying if there is a truth behind what has been declared today about this alleged payment of ransom (which today is perhaps less supposed than before). [[Applause from Senator Endrizzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u37	CASSON (PD). Mr President, I would simply like to make a few comments. The news that has just been reported in this House comes first of all from a source that defines "to be taken with the springs" is the least: it is a source of which there is no news, so it will certainly have to be verified; Moreover, it refers to an alleged intermilitary court in the area of Aleppo, also this very fantomatic. Of course, this is a reference to a request and to an alleged ransom payment which in itself is a very sensitive issue both for the past and especially for the future, for situations that are still open. We therefore believe that this is a situation to be dealt with, of course, but with the utmost delicacy. As a parliamentary committee for the security of the Republic, we have already set a meeting for tomorrow (the President is also present in this House) and certainly, with the director of the services, in the next few days too, we will deepen the news there. Of course, for the request to hear the Minister, I can only go back to the Presidency. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u40	COMPANIES (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, to further complete the picture of our calendars this week, tomorrow is also scheduled, at the end of the afternoon sitting, for the hearing, at the Foreign Committees and for the defence of the House and the Senate, of the ministers Gentiloni and Pinotti: that could be another venue, in addition to what Senator Casson was calling now, in which to address, if necessary, the issue, with all the concerns rightly put forward by President Casini, but with the equally fair alarm - in a dimension, I would say, at the moment, not yet in the Assembly - on the matter that Senator Divina has brought to the attention of this House now. On the basis of these two calendar commitments that we still have on tomorrow's day and with all the consideration of the arguments of Senators Crimes and Divine, I have the impression that it would be premature to formalize today an ad hoc act of convocation on the subject. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u43	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I agree with President Casini that the source of this information is at least doubtful and all to be verified. I also agree with Senator Casson that, given the delicacy of the subject, the most suitable seat can only be the COPASIR. There are some sensitive issues in the uncertainty of our country's international position that we have challenged on more than one occasion and tomorrow evening, during the session of the Foreign Commissions and the defence of the Chamber and Senate, we will certainly be able to deepen the many uncertainties of Italian foreign policy. The problem remains that there are some sensitive issues, if only because at the moment there are Italian citizens in the hands of militias not better identified. Therefore, any discussion - even public - on such a sensitive subject could cause damage to those Italian citizens who did not go voluntarily to Syria, like the two girls, but who went to work in many other places and with many other dangers, aware of the risks they were going to take. I therefore believe that this is the right place. Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that our Group is not present in COPASIR, so I think this is a further confirmation of how urgent it is to resolve this problem, also bearing in mind that, although we are not present, we agree that this is the most appropriate place where these issues should be addressed. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u46	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would just like to say that, in the situation we are in, it is true what Senator Paolo Romani said. There are other Italian hostages who are in the situation we know, so I too believe that like him, like President Casini, like Senator Casson and like others who have spoken that this matter should be dealt with with with an absolute delicacy, and I also believe that the seat of this debate is COPASIR. Of course, the Minister can always come to this House and it is always useful for him to come and discuss what is happening in Syria more generally and not simply about this matter; however, I would really treat it with the greatest sensitivity and responsibility possible, because these are matters relating to the life of hostages. I therefore believe that there is a need for enormous responsibility on the part of the opposition as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u49	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, we agree with Mr Casson's assessments. In particular, I would like to highlight the fact that we are all committed, even on different sides, to do our best in the interests of our country and of Italian citizens who are in situations of particular gravity and delicacy, I think that it would be appropriate to let the political exploitation of these issues be lost and instead to focus on the concrete objectives of protecting national interests, the lives of those who have disappeared and probably kept somewhere around the world. On the other hand, I believe that political confrontation (necessary and fair) should be directed at the elements of merit that concern us in these hours, such as the reform of the Constitution and the other measures that will come. I repeat that it takes a sense of responsibility to represent both the role of government and the role of opposition and it seems to me that in some cases it lacks.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u52	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I think it is appropriate to make a point, because I have never seen such piccated and even out of place responses from colleagues to a non-instrumental request to clarify an episode that we first said came from dubious Syrian sources, from non-legitimate courts, local courts and probably even gangsters. However, these reports have been beaten by a number of agencies, so there is a small concern in us that we should be left with the presence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. There was no manipulation. There was no offense. There was no disrespect, neither for the issues at stake nor for anything else. Those who have had uncontrolled reactions are probably speculating backwards. [[Senator Buemi's comments.]] CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). But the rules don't exist anymore! Then we complain about what happens! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, we will make an assessment later, once we have acquired further elements.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u53	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft Constitutional Act No 1429-B, which was first approved by the Senate and first amended by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u54	Mr President, the Government is returning to the House on Amendment 6,910, tabled by Senator Calderoli. The opinion opposed the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u57	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I just want clarification. We have a file in Article 6, which has already been deposited and available since last week but which, at this point, I do not think includes all the amendments which are on the site in non-paper form. Then there is an attached electronic extract where on some articles I find the diction of inadmissibility. So, I suppose this is a further list. You said, Mr President, that this extract is an example, so I do not have to take it into account. But this excerpt, which has been made by way of example, with even stricter inadmissibility criteria, does not include, for example, the first amendment, the deleterious one, which, as you teach us, is always admissible, as you are requesting the deletion of the article itself. I would therefore like to understand, at this point, what we need to look at and on what document we can'sympathise' to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u58	I understand that these are absolutely new procedures, which we are not used to. If you look at the paper file, on the first page, in Article 6, you will see what you are looking for, i.e. the deleterious amendments to the article, on 6.2000 and 6.2c, aimed at deleting the article: correct? ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. After that, we continue with this dossier until there is a change to the electronic one, and that is what the Presidency will say, precisely because those who have to be voted on first and those who have to be voted on later have to be interplayed in the succession of amendments. Since we have a paper file and one published in electronic format, there will be this passage from one to the other: for those who want to connect with the published dossier in electronic format, this is certainly possible, because I believe the amendments have been published since the summer, when they have been submitted to the Commission, and then resubmitted to the House, except for those that have been withdrawn by Senator Calderoli. This is therefore the paper document, supplemented by the electronic document and you can follow the vote through the paper extract of the electronic file. Since there are unacceptable amendments in the printing of the pages, you will also find the stamp 'unacceptable' on some pages, which of course does not give the opportunity to vote on that amendment, while the remaining ones will be the subject of a vote. We must adapt to the number of amendments and the way in which they have been tabled. I hope to be clear: do you need further clarification? ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). What happened to Articles 3, 4 and 5? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. They weren't modified by the House, as I said. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). So you declared them all inadmissible? Since there was no mention of this inadmissibility, had it already happened? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have already said that they have been declared inadmissible. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Was it the category of inadmissibility? [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Yeah, for the double compliant principle. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). I'm just saying this because it stays in the record, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I've read it, so it will certainly remain in the record: Articles 3, 4 and 5 are identical to Articles 3, 4 and 5 of the text approved by the Senate. We shall now proceed to the debate on Article 6, on which amendments have been tabled........................................................................................................................................................ It's already in the record. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). I'm sorry, you didn't sense the premise.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u61	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to make two requests. I should like to know whether you have already considered the request by Senator Malan that two specific amendments to Articles 10 and 21 be added. Do you remember last week you said you'd check it out? I say this just to be clear: we would not want there to be any amendments in circulation which are entirely replacements of the paragraph, which would virtually cause any possibility of our intervention to lapse; I believe that Senator Malan has indicated the two potential objects. Since this is a procedure we are using for the first time, I would also ask you, please, to give us the page first, then the number of the amendment under consideration, so that we can identify the amendment on the electronic file and then on the paper document, because this is the first time.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u62	Of course: it's the first time for me too, so let's all work together to get ahead and move on. As far as the sub-amendments requested by Senator Malan are concerned, I have not yet spoken to myself, but I will do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u65	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I have three requests, two of which I agree with previous requests. One is to know the subeminability of the amendments as requested by Senator Malan, which I believe is essential and to be known as soon as possible, so that we can also vote and reason calmly on these articles that we will now address. On the other hand, Mr President, there is still a request on Article 39 (1) in particular, and since Article 2 has been voted on, I believe that this reservation should be dissolved as soon as possible. I believe that these decisions are useful for a smoother and even more reasoned development of the articles we are dealing with, because knowing that we can discuss some articles on the subject allows us to proceed perhaps more quickly in all this reasoning. The third request which I have already made to you and on which I would ask you, again in this case, to dissolve the reserve, concerns the re-evaluation of the timing. Twenty-three minutes left for our group. We vote, in theory, on 13 October, at least from what emerged from the Conference of Leaders. Even now we have difficulty understanding the arcane algorithm that led us to decide to assign four hours to a group that counts 36 senators since four hours represent 5% of the total eighty hours and we represent over 10% of the members of the Senate. If the criterion also took account of the number of amendments, then Mr President, we could also have the desire next time to go beyond the limits of Senator Calderoli to have more time. I would therefore ask you quite frankly, since most of the eighty hours will not be used and there will be time between now and 13 October, if that time can be re-evaluated, given that it was the Presidency's discretion to allocate the time on the basis of the eighty hours identified by the Conference of Leaders - because that was the only indication of the Conference - to be distributed in proportion to the Groups. I would therefore ask you to dissolve the reserve on this request as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u66	For the first two requests, I still have time to evaluate them. As far as the timing is concerned, I understand that the fundamental and crucial issues of the reform of the Constitution have been addressed and that therefore we have gone to use as much time as possible for an in-depth discussion on important issues. As is well known, however, the distribution of time usually takes into account the division by membership of the Groups and, as often happens by the majority groups or those groups that do not intend to use all the time at their disposal, there is always a tolerance and availability. I therefore assume that there will also be this possibility and that it will be by the Presidency also taking into account the limited timing of giving the floor away. I believe that a further breakdown could then lead to a further revaluation, and if there is such a willingness, for interventions that are certainly necessary, it will not be denied by the Presidency the possibility of speaking in a precise and concise manner on the subject that is being examined, as it will be in the availability of each group, to be able to attribute to other groups part of the time not used. If you then want a strict assessment of the timing, even those that will eventually be granted with a further assessment, this implies the risk, without a certain discretion on the interventions, of not having more time to intervene. I therefore believe that it is best to go on and on and consider: leave this possibility and from time to time you will have the floor, of course in a way that is perfectly compatible with the functions and everything else.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u69	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I am sorry to put this question to you, but, in the complication of the work due to the existence of a paper file and one in electronic format, we have only now been able to see the amendments declared inadmissible. I know it is not customary to discuss this, but, at least as far as our proposals are concerned, there are two statements of inadmissibility which I find frankly unintelligible. Maybe in a hurry, president. Please, Senator De Petris, the signals. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Yes, the statements of inadmissibility concern amendments 6,2002 and 6,2003. We need to agree on what is amendable and what is not. I would like to point out that Article 6, which was dismissed by the Senate, provided that the Chambers' regulations guarantee the rights of parliamentary minorities. The Chamber of Deputies then added a distinction according to which: The Rules of the Chamber govern the statute of oppositions. Just as the House has done, we too have put an additional question to guarantee the oppositions. This reasoning concerns amendments 6,2002, 6,2003 and 6,2004, which deal with the same subject, i.e. the faculties of oppositions. Mr President, I would therefore ask you to be able to carry out a check because, in the haste of having to consider so many amendments, perhaps something has slipped away.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u70	Senator De Petris, I confirm the statements of inadmissibility because the amendments in question introduce absolutely new elements in relation to the subject of the article and the possibility of amending it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u73	TONINI (PD). Mr President, I would like to make a brief comment on the timing issue. Our Group believes that it needs all the time it has; for its interventions I therefore invite colleagues to calculate their times well so as to avoid misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u74	All right, Senator Tonini, this aspect will be evaluated. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 6,2000, which is identical to Amendment No 6.2c. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. Mr President, I would like to announce to you that I will make this request for each individual amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Usually the request is made with reference to all the amendments tabled to the article; today the request has changed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,2000, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendment 6.2c, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 6.3c to 6.700 are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.701. TONINI (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. [[Laughter from the M5S Group]] I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u77	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the ratio of amendment 6.701 is very simple and is the result of a concern that I think we should all have about the introduction of the so-called opposition statute. As is well known - at least it seems, because it is not possible to fully understand the function of this statute - it is an act that should be approved by the Chamber of Deputies as well as the Regulations of the Chambers and their amendments, i.e. by an absolute majority of the members of the Chamber. As you know, the debate these days, these weeks and these months around constitutional reform revolves around the fact that a political formation, for the combined arrangement between the Constitution as we are writing it and the electoral law that we have already approved, could, with a minority of consensus gathered in the country, have the majority of seats in the Chamber of Deputies and, through the statute of oppositions, regulate also the rights of oppositions to exercise their functions. What are these functions? We must at least define them, otherwise we do not understand what this statute of opposition is. Are they to be governed by a Leader of oppositions, who regulates them within themselves? Is it an act, a document that they produce in agreement and make available to the House as a whole? You don't understand. So what do I try to do with this amendment? I try to identify an area within which the matter is regulated, that is, the rights of the opposition to exercise the main functions that a Member and a group of parliamentarians must exercise within the House, namely the popular representation, the legislative function and the inspection union. That statute must allow and not prevent this exercise. If it were to prevent it - and in fact this would be possible with the text we are firing - we would find ourselves in the construction of a constitutional provision which in fact stipulates the introduction of a regime under whatever political formation obtains the absolute majority of the members of the House, which, with the recently adopted electoral law, is certain; it is not even a hypothesis: it is certain. I think we need to think about this. This paragraph should have been deleted. It shouldn't have been there. Moreover, the Constitution that we had did not need this, because it was the Rules of Procedure that established and protected the functions of each Member of Parliament, as well as those of the majority and opposition, allowing each Member, within the limits of the functioning of the legislative body, to fully exercise his function. Now we have introduced another element, which I think is completely irritating, of disorder, little defined and which leaves room for dangers. I would like to suggest to all of us that we cannot know how the elections will go, that polls are not in themselves a guarantee and that today one event is enough to reverse the forecasts. Tomorrow I would not like to find myself in a condition in which it is not possible in the national Parliament, for those who represent the opposition in the country, to express their political function and to exercise their function of representation. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u80	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). Mr President, I would like to speak for a few seconds. They used to say, "Make the law, find the deception." In the genetic mutation that is undergoing constitutional law, during this debate, we see that in some passages we make a law that already has many deceptions within it. This is a clear example because, in the transition to the Chamber of Deputies, conditions have been laid down to prevent oppositions from exercising their role, as our Constitution provided. That is why we will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u81	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,701, tabled by Senators Uras and Scilipoti Isgrò. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 6.8c, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u83	I therefore object to the annulment of the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u85	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would just like to mention the request made by Senator Calderoli to give us a way of finding the amendments in the files, because there are also the annexes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u86	When we move on to the non-paper file, I'll spell it out, Senator Crimes. Now we have simply moved on to the amendment immediately following what we have just voted on on page 4 of the file. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 6.8c, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.9c, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.10c.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u89	MORRA (M5S). This amendment, ladies and gentlemen, would make it possible for people outside the House to be warned of a substantial desire to bring Parliamentary assemblies closer to the real world. In fact, the amendment simply calls for the establishment of disciplines and methods of withdrawal from Parliament's mandate in the event of a repeated violation of the duty to participate in parliamentary work. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I believe that in this case there is very little to add, as long as one wants, not in words or with sanctions that may be questionable, but in fact, to restore the sacredness of the House and of the parliamentary institution, which very often has been trampled on by conduct and behavior that is not acceptable, I limit myself to this observation. So to call all the elected to the duty of being present - because being present is not simply a right - when you carry out your mandate, it seems to us the minimum trade union that you can request.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u92	CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). Mr President, I would like to stress one point: the meaning of this amendment, which is abstractly considered, may also be correct. However, I would point out to my colleagues, and in particular those of the 5 Star Movement, that, with this constitutional revision, we are going towards a Parliament in which the majority dominates uncontested, because in practice, it defines the same Regulations, referred to in the amendment under consideration, which would govern the way in which the parliamentary mandate is revoked. But be careful because, from our experience, we have seen how the Regulations are ultimately interpreted by the same majority. So, going to define mechanisms of removal of parliamentarians (even if in abstract they can be corrected), in the presence of majorities - God forbid! - if they feel little sense of respect between the majority and the opposition, they could come to determine how to remove Members who are not welcome by the majority. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please finish. CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). That is why I shall be voting against Amendment 6.10c.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u95	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, I think it would be useful to make a brief statement on this amendment, which, in my Group's view, deserves all kinds of consideration. You see, Mr President, just as we take a look at severe censorship - let me say so - towards the Government when it disregards its duty of respect for Parliament, forcing it essentially to a residual function, close between decrees-laws and votes of confidence, we also feel that we must assume responsibilities in Parliament. And the responsibilities lie not only in the sobriety of our behaviour, but also in the presence of the Members of Parliament. Certainly it betrays the confidence of the electorate who does not participate in the work with that necessary assiduousness that confirms the dignity and relevance of this function, and gives the national community a more appropriate evaluation to the sacredness of legislative action. This is why I would like to invite the Government to take the utmost account of the purpose expressed here, and to provide for the possibility that the appropriate Rules of Procedure of the Chamber regulate in the best way the modalities to guarantee the principle of compulsory participation in the work. And this, of course, must take place in ways and terms that do not become an exasperation, but a principle that takes out of parliamentary activity those who, however unjustified, do not participate in it (Openpolis gives us a percentage that sometimes does not exceed 20%). Therefore, I would like to say that I am absolutely convinced and in favour of the purpose of this amendment, which restores dignity to Parliament's role. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u96	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.10c, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,2001, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendments 6.12c, tabled by Senator Calderoli (on page 1 of the electronic file), 6.13c, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators, 6.609, tabled by Senator D'Alì and other senators, and 6.15c, tabled by Senators Mauro Mario and De Pin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 6,2002, 6.2203 and 6.2204 are inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6/2005, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,800, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6,2006, which is essentially the same as Amendments 6,19c and 6,2008.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u99	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group supports the wording of Amendment 6.19c, because it is obvious that opposition must be guaranteed in both Chambers, whatever the configuration of the Senate that the previous articles have defined. We do not see why, if there are to be rights to opposition, these must be limited to the House. At the same time, I am well aware that they should be territorial representations, but we know very well, all the more so, that being designated (because they will be) by the groups of regional councils, they will of course go on a party basis; it is even their duty to do so. Secondly, this passage recalls another twist of the whole of the reforms in place (electoral law and constitutional reform): it will be possible for the majority, composed of only one party, probably voted by very few voters (easily less than a third or a quarter of those who go to vote), to change the Rules of Procedure at will. It is clear, therefore, that this is another reason: at least, if there is to be a statute of opposition, the oppositions of both the House and the Senate are guaranteed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u100	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,2006, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendments 6,19c, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators, and 6,2008, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u103	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to point out that you voted on Amendments 6,2006, 6,19c and 6,2008, but it seems to me that the term 'discipline' of the first two amendments differs from the term 'guarantee' of the third. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. These are basically identical amendments. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). No, Mr President: disciplinary means defining, regulating, while guaranteeing is something different from mere regulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u104	All right, Senator, the previous vote applies only to amendments 2,2006 and 6,19c. I therefore call on Senator De Petris and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 6,2008. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 6.26c of the electronic file, tabled by Senator Calderoli, until the words "status" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 6.26c and amendment 6.27c are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6/2007, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.18c.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u107	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are calling for this amendment to be adhered to and therefore evaluated for the proposal, in particular, to regulate the appointment by future Members of the House of Presidents of the Commissions with control and guarantee functions. It is an exquisitely political issue on which, in the recent past, we have had to intervene. We would like the allocation of the Presidents of the Control Commissions to escape the usual monopoly of the majority and pseudo-minorities in a clear and clear way, so that there can be no doubt at all and, therefore, minorities and oppositions, already party to an electoral law that marries for nothing the principle of representativeness, can have at least a say in order to avoid a possible - and I hope unlikely - undemocratic result of this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u110	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I am speaking by point. I asked her about the inadmissibility of Amendment 6,2002, which stated: The Regulations of the Chambers govern the appointment by the oppositions of the Presidents of the Commissions with control and guarantee functions. And you confirmed your inadmissibility. Amendment 6.18c, which we are about to vote on, practically regulates the designation by the Commission Presidents themselves. And this has been declared admissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u111	The amendment in the vote is a replacement, while the other was a premissive one. That's the motivation. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.18c, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.2009, tabled by Senator Uras and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.2010, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 6.29c, tabled by Senator Calderoli, on the dossier in electronic format. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.1, tabled by Senators De Pietro and Orellana. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 6.28c is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 6.30c, which is in the electronic file.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u114	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would just like to say that I withdraw the amendment and turn it into an agenda. [[Applause from Senator Cappelletti.]] CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would ask you to sign the agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Government representative to comment on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u115	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u116	Senator Calderoli, do you insist on voting? Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of amendment 6.31c, which is on page 2 of the dossier in electronic format. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I withdraw the amendment and turn it into an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is If you intend to do so on all your amendments, please say so now. Otherwise, I may not accept your demands for transformation. I read Rule 95 (7) of the Rules of Procedure: The proposer of an amendment may, with the President's consent, withdraw the amendment itself in order to turn it into an agenda. If the intent is obstructive, and every amendment of the intention is called for to be transformed into an agenda, the Presidency cannot give its consent. SANTANGELO (M5S). But second of all, what? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We can vote for it. If you don't turn them all into agendas, let's hear the government's opinion. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I take note of this and, then, I ask that they all be turned into agendas. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. On a single agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u117	No, I would ask that each of them be turned into an agenda, in accordance with established practice, since it has always been allowed to be transformed into an amendment. That someone then interprets it as obstructionism, I am sorry, Mr President, but I disagree.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u118	We shall then proceed to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 6.31c, tabled by Senator Calderoli, until the following words are taken. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). It may be your power not to accept the amendment's change to the agenda, but I can still withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you withdraw it without transforming it, you can certainly do it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u121	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to refer to Rule 95 (7) of the Rules of Procedure which you have just mentioned. You are giving an interpretation of the word consensus which cannot be included in this case at all. You are interpreting the consensus in the sense that the President determines whether the practice of withdrawing the amendment and asking for it to be transformed into an agenda is acceptable or not. In our view, there is absolutely no room to interpret that paragraph in that way. I would ask you to clarify exactly how you want to interpret paragraph 7 of Rule 95. If not, we call on the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, because it is not possible for a practice which has been in force for at least two and a half years to suddenly change, and we call on this paragraph of the Rules of Procedure to try to prevent the transformation of an amendment into the order of the day in order to see a supposed obstructionist claim in this action. Apart from the fact that it is not possible to read people's thoughts, interpreting in that way the withdrawal of an amendment and its transformation into the agenda, the transformation is normally understood as follows: since we do not want to change the structure of the article, then we weaken the proposal as an amendment on the agenda, in order to circumvent the situation, and in any case we ask the Government's willingness to accept it in the future, and certainly not for obstructive purposes, as you have interpreted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u122	The assessment of the obstructive purpose was largely motivated by it. Consent in Italian means what everyone can understand. If the President's consent is not there, it is because he sees obstructive aims in the practice of withdrawing the amendments. This is the Presidency's assessment, which is not new, but made in accordance with Rule 95 (7) of the Rules of Procedure. I now ask Senator Calderoli if he confirms his intention to withdraw amendment 6.31c. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr President, I shall withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.32c.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u125	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to support the content of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u128	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Candiani but, being the only signatory to the amendment, I shall withdraw him. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.33c.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u131	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, since I particularly care about this amendment, I would like to say that I can turn it into an agenda. Otherwise, I'll take it back. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency does not give its consent to its transformation into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u134	TONINI (PD). Mr President, I accept Amendment 6.33c. [[Applause from the PD Group]] MARTON (M5S). No, ma'am!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u135	I call on Senator Calderoli to vote by simultaneous ballot on the first part of amendment 6.33c, which was subsequently withdrawn and taken over by Senator Tonini, until the following words are inserted. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 6.33c and amendments 6.34c to 6.1029c are therefore excluded. [[Applause from the PD Group. Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u138	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, what has happened at the moment is yet another very serious violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Mr President, please allow me to continue this speech on the Rules of Procedure without any kind of buzz.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u139	Colleagues, I have already said that the speeches should not be accompanied with comments and choirs.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u140	Senator Santangelo, you can continue. SANTANGELO (M5S). What you have stated, namely the fact that you did not allow my colleague to turn the agenda, is absolutely contrary to a well-established practice which goes well beyond the previous two and a half years. At this moment, therefore, you are putting in place a obstructive tactic that is such by the majority, which, by making this amendment, has allowed a number of subsequent amendments to be cut. In this House we should discuss the amendments and then vote on them, but that is what you have prevented today, with your conduct. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] NUGNES (M5S). Bravo! SANTANGELO (M5S). I say it so that it stays in the record again. Rule 95 (7) does not say at all what you are applying. I therefore invite you, for the umpteenth time, to immediately convene the Council for the Rules of Procedure, so that we can express clearly, clearly and clearly on this case, which could hinder the natural and correct continuation of the work. I invite you, therefore, to convene the Junta. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u141	I read Article 95 (7): The proposer of an amendment may, with the President's consent, withdraw the amendment in order to turn it into an agenda. It is clear that there is no agreement on the Rules of Procedure. SANTANGELO (M5S). Practice, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This is paragraph 7. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.1030c.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u144	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, as I have already asked several times, in the electronic file - it is clear to everyone - each of these three amendments then hid perhaps thousands of them. As I asked you last time, when you put an amendment to the vote, as it has happened now, you should tell us exactly what everyone else is involved in it. He didn't say, in fact, to pass directly... PRESIDENT. - The debate is I am sorry to interrupt you, but I have said that the subsequent amendments until amendment 6.1029c are foreclosed. You can verify this in the shorthand report. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). So, does that mean we only skip three amendments, Mr President? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Until page 211. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Exactly and, so you, in theory, shouldn't just read how far you get. The other time - as you know - I asked you to read all the amendments that were decaying, because in this way we cannot understand all the logical leaps. And I'm saying that because you have now used the idea of consensus on agendas. Indeed, when we examine the law of stability in this House, I would like to see whether it will also express itself against the withdrawal of amendments and their transformation into agendas. It never happened, however, but you say that there is a precedent, that we will go and verify. For the same reason, since it is difficult to work in this way, logical leaps must be clarified, because we do not have all two hundred pages, as you know. So when you call an amendment, I think you should say at least those that fall, otherwise you can't understand anything. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They are available online and, therefore, through computer tools, which are normally on the minds of all senators, you could follow and evaluate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u147	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to clarify the order of business. In putting amendment 6.30c to the vote, it clarified what the conclusions were. But that amendment was not voted on, it was withdrawn and, therefore, the foreclosures were not to take place. He put amendment 6.31c to the vote, without assessing between the two parts of the file which we should put to the vote first. So I would ask that between amendments 6.30 and 6.31, which are put as follows, but are not, be evaluated what we missed, because Mr De Petris also pointed out that there were only three of his amendments left. Perhaps there has been a somewhat accelerated leap forward and I would ask you to check the circumstances. I also make another request, please and intellectual honesty. There is a stone feast here and there is an unspoken article 39. There is no point in hiding that that is the political point. And if we don't loosen it, we keep moving forward without knowing which legs the table rests on. I therefore appeal to you, precisely in the spirit you have called for today to resume your work in a more serene way, to have respect for intelligence and intellectual honesty, so that what is said here in the House, citizens can feel that it is what we think.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u150	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to clarify why the subject of changing the amendments to agendas is particularly important for many reasons. I can say, as a minority member, and therefore often cut off from the possibility of seeing also a voice of common sense accepted, that we often see - as we note in this case - an already definitive draft preceding, in fact, the parliamentary discussion of a text of law. And, therefore, since the law has already been prepared - as it arrives in the Chamber, so it has to come out - the agendas have often become a tool to try to make a voice of common sense pass. I therefore believe that we must have certainties. And we understand that there is a logic behind the behavior of Senator Tonini, who surprisingly makes just an amendment of Senator Calderoli, who is rejected as it was presented by Senator Tonini himself. And if we can also understand that this happens for a game that obviously likes one another, even if someone confesses it less than others. But you must also understand the profound embarrassment of those who, however, believe that the Rules of Procedure are still a serious matter, to whom at least to appeal when you are in conditions of objective weakness such as those in which I can find myself, and many other colleagues. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr President, to clarify, perhaps even with ease and after having called the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, with regard to the position you have taken today. I would ask you to clarify, that is, what are the criteria under which a change has been made to what was generally the practice, namely the transformation of an amendment on the agenda, with its consent, without prejudice to the opinion of the Government and the vote. Since we now see a filter that precedes a vote and even the expression of the opinion by the Government (not by the rapporteur, because it is no longer there), it would be really important to understand what are the reasons why this filter may or may not be introduced. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I've already explained the reasons. You have run out of time and, therefore, please conclude. MUSSINI (Mixed). However, I am speaking on the subject, because from now on what has happened can become an instrument to be used in a very discretionary way: the indication of the obstructive aims is a definition that precedes and makes the process to the intentions with respect to the content of the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u153	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, my studies, which are very far away, have reminded me today of the 'Batracomiomachia' (Batracomiomachia). Mr President, I do not know if you remember it: it is the battle between mice and frogs, probably ascribed to Homer in the sixth century. I have the impression that today we are more or less in the same condition, finding ourselves in a battle between shrimps and kangaroos. Frankly, I must admit that I am less interested in this new epic battle and that I would be much more interested in seriously discussing the reform of the Constitutional Charter. From how the debate is taking place today we are understanding that it seems difficult for the shrimp to win, but that the kangaroo also certainly has difficulty in proceeding. We risk having a battle with the Rules of Procedure without understanding anything that awaits us and - above all - without going into the real problems that my Group and I are interested in deepening. I remember two of them: the first, mentioned earlier by the Senator of the 5 Star Movement, concerns Article 39 and the first application of constitutional reform as far as the Senate is concerned. The second is the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court, which has been modified by the Chamber of Deputies and which could probably be changed again in the Senate. I have the impression that continuing for another ten days with the mechanisms of today, that nothing makes us understand, is of no use at all: it is of little use to us, but also to the public or to those very few citizens who try to understand what we are discussing in this House. Senator Calderoli, I'm also telling you: I'm barely interested in going on like this. I think it would be much more useful to be able to reach an agreement between normal people who make optimum use of the remaining ten days (I remember that the harmonisation that the Conference of Leaders allows her to exhaust her time on 13 October), having already voted on Articles 1 and 2 of the measure, which are the pillars of the intense debate that took place in the previous months and the strong changes made by the House of Deputies. Mr President, I would like to appeal to you: call on the Conference of Leaders and see if, for once, we can talk seriously about the reform on the two points that still remain to be deepened and to which I am personally very interested, as well as the Group that I represent. Let us take a step forward and avoid going on like this, because frankly I think it serves little and no one. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u154	Senator Romani, you spoke of a political mediation, but I would remind you that the President cannot go into these matters.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u155	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Call the Conference of Leaders! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I do not believe that the Conference of Leaders can have the opportunity to speak on the substance of the political issues connected with constitutional reform.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u158	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, the issue raised by the Roman leader is absolutely well founded. We are privileging procedural tricks, rather than considering and examining certain issues on the subject not only from the political point of view, but also the goodness of the timetable that we have all given ourselves. I would remind you, Mr President, that on your proposal for a timetable and for the harmonization of the timetables you have obtained - rightly so - the consensus of the Heads of Group. This means that the subject of the conclusion of this debate in a reasonable time belongs to the heritage of all. However, if we tie the passing of our days only to this type of procedure, we lose sight of the real objective. We have exhausted the examination of the two articles that had most occupied the debate, especially the media, over the past few weeks on the subject of reform. Among the most concrete issues before us, there are two or three very significant ones, starting from Title V but also the Constitutional Court, transitional rule, but also the real and substantial amendment of the Constitution. I think this should be preferred rather than procedures summarized in the press (you want the kangaroo, you want the shrimp), distorting the message of what is happening in this House. (Brusio).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u159	I'm sorry to interrupt, Senator Bonfrisco. I do not allow the hemicycle to be used for conversations; let anyone who wants to speak sit outside or go in his place. I will have to resort to these systems, to prevent any customs that are not very dignified for the work we are doing. Please, Senator Bonfrisco.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u160	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to conclude quickly by proposing that we should at least allow ourselves all to be able to follow the work on the substance of the matter. Since we are supported today by the electronic support of the Internet, where the amendments have been published, believe me, Mr President, if we do not have a minimum of time, we can also skip the debate, because there is not even time to go and understand what has been bypassed, exceeded or skipped with the approval of one text rather than another. If we want to make the debate useless, then let's close it first, which is so much better. If we want to do so at all, then give us time to compare the two texts, where the presentation of our amendments, which are anguished by the adoption of a text, at least allows us to have a minimum of debate and explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u161	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u163	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, we agree with what Senator Romani has just said and we fully agree. He also made an excellent metaphor, that of shrimps and kangaroos. Senator Crimi first asked her to undo a knot - and so did the Parent Company of Forza Italia - on Articles 10, 39 and 21. We therefore urge you to stop for ten minutes, Mr President, and to dissolve these knots, precisely because of the serenity of the work. Moreover, I regret to note that, in this battle enunciated by Senator Romans between shrimps and kangaroos, she for the umpteenth time, abandoning a practice of two and a half years, has started to cheer for the kangaroos. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This does not make the House any less concerned, Mr President. If you, whenever there is a doubt, go with the majority, it is logical that the House gets angry and tries to rebel. That is not the way to chair the House, Mr President. Stop, do not warm up your souls and make decisions; you will see that the discussion will be much more serene and much faster.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u164	Senator Marton, I do not allow you to say that the President's decisions go with the majority. MARTON (M5S). She did! He's been doing it for two and a half years! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There are two precedents in terms that are internal to the Senate; so you can't say that. MARTON (M5S). I can say that and put it on the record! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have read the literal wording of the Rules of Procedure and it seems to me to be as clear as a clear source. MARTON (M5S). Keep being a fan!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u165	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u167	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I asked for the floor a long time ago, but you decided on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What did you ask for the floor? Since you've done this a long time before, I think it's about other things. DIVINE (LN-Aut). I'm sorry you didn't notice, but there's no problem. I would just like to ask you to add my signature, if possible, Mr President, to Mr Calderoli's amendment 6.1030c. After that, we are no longer surprised at anything, Mr President. From a Rules of the Assembly, from a series of precedents, from a series of consolidated in the history of this Senate, the Rules of Procedure have now become rag paper and what is used here has become ius domesticus. That doesn't surprise us anymore either. On the part of the League you will probably not have any more major protests about this, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u170	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking for a regulatory speech and also for what Senator Romani has just said. We have a regulation, which is very frequently modified and interpreted according to practice, which is usually less favourable than oppositions. On the other hand, this time that there is a practice which would be favourable to opposition, it is not practiced. I could understand that if we were next Monday, in seven days, and there were still amendments to be voted on, but we still have eight days to vote. So, "pull down the clèr " in this way, with kangaroo jumps and refusals to turn the amendments into agendas does not seem absolutely justified. I also remember that you, Mr President, had made a veiled invitation to the majority to allow the transfer of the remaining time in favour of the opposition, but the answer was a nice slap: in fact they told us that the times are theirs and that they do not give up anything at all. My colleague Paolo Romani has called for a high flight, but the problem is that, apart from the cases raised in relation to Article 39 and other points, there is a stone party here, called the Government, which has said nothing about the points that are still under discussion. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The representative of the Government arrives, gives the opposite opinion on everything and possibly returns to the Assembly on secret votes. But if there are 77 or 78 rejection votes, what are you afraid of? What are the problems with a numerical distance of this magnitude? I believe that we can also venture, for once, to let this House make its own will felt. We have accepted and I believe that this should have been welcomed with greater willingness, the fact that we are currently working on both paper and IT media. I am convinced that only I, Senator Candiani and a few others have before us the amendments. In the Commission, the possibility of a video projection of texts and the presence of computers was envisaged. I think it's unlikely that the Senate will vote for things that don't even know what they are, because I dare anyone to see them! [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Mr President, the time available for each speech is ten minutes: I do not know if there has been a reduction.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u171	The time available is already over and therefore also the time to clarify one's own thoughts are limited.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u172	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, we do not know what we are voting on! If anyone knows, get up and say so, because otherwise we are all collaborators, towards a way of doing that is not correct. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] TONINI (PD). We are voting on your amendments! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Calderoli: I say from time to time what the House is called to vote on. I can also read the whole text of the amendments that we are going to vote on. This happens and so we move on.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u173	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u175	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would always like to speak on the point of order, on the way forward in our work and, therefore, on the order of business. When I spoke earlier, I did not ask a question to do so: I would like to remind you that the first two amendments that Senator Calderoli withdrew - and not the third, which Senator Tonini himself did - were the amendments from which the kangaroo stood out. This means that all those amendments could not blow them up and so they remained. What's he accessing? In fact, you put the other amendment to the vote, Mr President, but the previous ones did not jump because the two amendments that made the jump stand out in fact. In short, we all seem - for those who listen out of here - out of their minds, but there is a problem, Mr President. We went to watch them online and that's exactly how it is: the previous pages have remained in tune; therefore also for the order of our works and because - I remind you - each senator when he votes has no bond of mandate, we should know exactly what is happening. President Romani has made an appeal, a reminder - to none of us is more interested in discussing what is the animal that will eventually win this whole affair - because we expect quite complex points: I refer to Article 10, therefore to the legislative procedure, which presents quite complex issues, as well as to two other not indifferent political points, which concern the transitional rule (we know only something of the judges of the Constitutional Court because there is the amendment of Senator Finocchiaro). Perhaps it would be good, even for the order of our work, to understand what the intentions are, also because you then have to decide, President. For example, is there an intention to reopen Article 39? Is there a willingness on the part of the majority to examine certain serious issues raised by Article 10 on the legislative procedure? So these are the issues on which we would expect, as well as this debate, to be clear on what we are voting on; that there is, from this point of view, a trace to understand how we should proceed. I say this because if the majority confirms that the availability is limited to the amendment tabled regarding the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court, it is good that all senators are aware of it in order to take their own decisions. I believe, however, that it is time to have political clarity on the path we want to take.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u176	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.1030c. [[Senator Castaldi's comments.]] Senator Calderoli, without any foreclosure or cut; he was signed by the Divine Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u177	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u179	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would ask you to be able to accept this amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.1030c, tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.1031c, tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 6.1032c, until the words 'oppositions' are put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u180	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u182	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to subscribe to the amendment and ask for it to be voted on separately: from the beginning to the words 'to the Prime Minister', 'as the first part', and from the words 'power' to the end, as the second part.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u183	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u184	There is no debate on the request for a split vote: the House is pronounced, as you know.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u185	[[The Senator-Council points out that he wants to intervene.]] About what, Senator? We cannot speak on the request for a split vote. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). I would just like to send an e-mail to Mr Candiani and subscribe to the amendment. [[Senator Calderoli's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u186	I take note of that. I shall put to the vote the request for a separate vote on Amendment 6.1032c, tabled by Senator Candiani. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 6.1032c.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u187	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u189	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, someone may interpret it as a common vote, but at the moment, if you separate the first part of the amendment from the next part, you are actually voting separately, on which the House has just spoken against. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's different. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). No. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Separate votes had been requested, while the common votes are now being taken. It's a completely different thing. It has already been clarified. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Excuse me, Mr President, you vote for the first part and stop until a certain word; after that, if it were to be adopted, you should proceed to vote for the second part. This, therefore, is a split vote, on which the House has expressed itself in the opposite direction; whether they are common or uncommon, little counts; it is one vote, to which another must follow. If the House does not want a split vote, neither can the Presidency impose it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u190	Senator, in fact the first part is voted; if rejected the next part is precluded; if the first part is approved, then the second part is voted. It's clear. In fact, I say: "If rejected" If it is rejected, it is a speech; the speech is different if it is approved. Since you want to know what the amendments are foreclosed if the first part is rejected, I tell you which, by voting on the first part, are foreclosed. [[Comments of Senators Candiani and Santangelo]] That's right, we vote for the first part.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u191	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u192	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u193	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I am embarrassed to continue making these speeches on the Rules of Procedure, which you should know better than anyone else here. If we have just decided - and here is the House that decides - that this amendment cannot be voted on separately, you cannot decide, in total autonomy, to vote on only a portion of the amendment and therefore to vote on it separately. That is logical, Mr President. It is useless for you to continue to wrap yourself in the same words; it merely mortifies the Rules of Procedure of the Senate once again, violating it again. He thinks we're all a bunch of fools here, but we're not. Mr President, we are all in a position to read and understand the Rules of Procedure and, on the basis of established practice, which has been applied in this House for decades, we ask you to continue to apply them today. The House has just spoken and told you that you cannot allow this amendment to be voted on separately. You cannot take that responsibility, nor do you have the authority to have it voted separately. There is absolutely no such thing. The Rules of Procedure require it and you must abide by the Rules of Procedure, as each of us is doing. Then if you want to continue violating him, that he remains in the record at this moment President Grasso is again violating the Senate Rules.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u194	Meanwhile the article 102, paragraph 4, and not paragraph 5, applies; therefore I invite you to look carefully at this paragraph, according to which the President has the right to change the order of the vote when you consider it appropriate for the sake of the economy or the clarity of the votes themselves. [[Protests of Senators Candiani and Santangelo.]] For the sake of the economy of voting, I put to the vote the common part of the first part.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u195	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u197	TONINI (PD). Mr President, I would just like to say that the House rejected a proposal for a split vote. The President, on the basis of another Rule of the Rules of Procedure, has made another Rule. [[Senator Bonfrisco's comments.]] MARTELLI (M5S). No! SANTANGELO (M5S). That's not true!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u198	It's been clarified... [[Live comments from Senators Calderoli, Candiani and Martelli.]] It is the Presidency's prerogative to apply Rule 102 (4) of the Rules of Procedure for the sake of the economy of voting. I repeat, this is a prerogative of the Presidency. [[Comments of Senators Candiani and Puglia. Senator Santangelo shows a copy of the Senate Rules.]] I'll call the order. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I call the Rules of Procedure! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll call the order. [[Senator Candiani's protests.]] Shall we continue like this? I have read Rule 102 (4) to you, so I propose the vote on the first part. We have already rejected, with the vote of this House, a separate vote proposed. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I ask you to speak on a point of order. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I have already rejected the point of order, which has been made appropriately, and it has been decided to apply Rule 102 (4). We should therefore proceed to the vote. [[Vivacious protests by Senators Martelli and Santangelo.]] CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I ask you to speak on a point of order! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, I'm gonna call you to order, and you're gonna have it on the record. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I ask you to speak on a point of order! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have already rejected a point of order and I have pointed out that Article 102 (4) applies. The matter is closed. [[Live, repeat protests of Senators Martelli and Santangelo.]] CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I ask you to speak on a point of order! TONINI (PD). That's it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, I'll call you back to order. [[Protests of Senators Candiani, Martelli, Puglia and Santangelo.]] Now I don't allow these elements anymore. (Senator Candiani shows a copy of the Rules of Procedure.) I invite the quaestors to intervene. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). But mine is a point of order! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, I'm calling you back to order once again. I ask the Leaders to intervene, as we had established and announced. We have just given directives, which are not already observed within an hour. SANTANGELO (M5S). But you're the only one who talks! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, if you keep standing and screaming, I will expel you from the Chamber. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). But that's not possible! That is a point of order! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's possible. This is the third time I've called you to order, and I'm inflicting censorship on you.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u199	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u201	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would have voted against this amendment. We are writing the Constitution and I asked for the floor for an explanation of vote on the deleted amendments of the additional part inserted by the House. Mr President, you teach me, in fact, that that Constitution was also clear to a young high school student. Now, this new Constitution is not understood. Article 64 of the new Constitution will say that the Chambers can be provided with Regulations. The Regulations ensure the rights of minorities. [[Lives, prolonged protests from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u202	Senator Caliendo, unfortunately they won't allow you to intervene, despite what we just said an hour ago. In turn, I don't allow this. I would ask you, therefore, to stop for a moment, so as to clarify whether you can complete your speech in peace. If this cannot happen, then I will take the appropriate measures. Senator Candiani, I invite you to sit down. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). But where does it say I have to sit? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What is written is that you must behave in such a way as to allow Senator Caliendo to intervene. I call on its leader, Senator Centinario, to cooperate, according to his duties, as we had established, in order to maintain the order of the House. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). And I urge you to respect the Rules of Procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Until order is restored, Senator Caliendo will not continue in his intervention. Please, Senator Caliendo, you can continue now.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u203	Mr President, the amendment which included the deletion of the part inserted by the House was voted on and, for my own sake, I did not ask for the floor first. Beware: there are many lawyers among you, who know very well that the statute of opposition does not make any sense. In our constitutional system, what does that mean? Nothing. In the Anglo-Saxon system, however, it has its meaning. Then, on this amendment, which I do not agree with, I must vote in favour of, in order to give young people, those who read the Constitution, the ability to understand what we mean. The truth is that, since the Regulations guarantee the rights of minorities in the way they proceed in the work of that body, this intervention was not necessary. Madam Minister, you are tabling a deleterious amendment. Let's go back, because otherwise we need to achieve the same goal by making a mistake. I am now voting in favour of amendment 6.1032c to make it clear to students and lawyers what I mean. I am not convinced, but I am obliged to vote for it because that deletion amendment, in the care of all of us, has not passed. That is the reason, Mr President. And I ask you, who read the Constitution as a young man, how is it possible for us to make such a mistake? Let's find a solution, but I can't tell you what it is. However, I will have to vote on these amendments for a necessary specification, when it would have been more logical to say what the Rules of Procedure mean, namely that it regulates that the activity of that body is a guarantee of minorities. This means, being a secondary standard. That is why, Minister, it solves the problem, because honestly maintaining that wording forces us to vote on things we are not convinced of.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u204	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u205	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u206	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I asked you to speak in the middle of the debate on the evaluation of Rule 102 of the Rules of Procedure, but I would also like to open a discussion with you on Rule 92 and on a point of order, just to bring back in the context of the civil debate this complaint which seems to me a little useless, by anyone who proposes it or food. I am not questioning your knowledge of the Rules of Procedure, Mr President. I would just like to remind you that two speakers, one for and one against, or, if you think so, one for each group, can speak on the points of order in addition to the proposer. In order to come to this issue instead of being under discussion, I think that the method we are working with is somewhat innovative. In my modest experience, I have never seen such a delicate subject deal with procedures that are often new to everyone. I therefore ask you, Mr President: on the matter which has been put by the split vote, paragraph 5 of Rule 102 of the Rules of Procedure seems to me to say quite clearly that the proposal can be put forward by each Senator and on it the House is acting by show of hands without debate. But when does this happen? If the text to be put to the vote contains more than one provision or refers to more than one subject or object or is in any case likely to be distinguished in more than one part (s). I turn to your assessment, Mr President, but with a prayer: it seems to me that, even after the outcome of today's Presidency Council, everyone has felt the need to be able to play their role here, in full civilization and in full respect. I believe that we can all join this team, that team of respect for civilization: but I find it frankly excessive, Mr President, to send the quaestors senators only on a point of order that the colleague of the League asked for. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Simeoni and Mussini.]] From here, in fact, as you know, there can be no attack on your person, much less on the regular conduct of the work. I therefore ask you to consider my Group, Conservatives and Reformists, and all the others who share this thought with me, respectful of the rule of civil coexistence. Let me make one thing clear, Mr President: civil coexistence and political debate must be able to live together and do so, if, on the one hand and on the other, there is respect for democratic civilization for each of us. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Misto-SEL Groups and the Senators Simeoni and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u207	Senator Bonfrisco, you have had the floor as a Parent Company, because the matter has already been decided by the Presidency: having proposed it again therefore does not change its terms or change the decision of the Presidency. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u208	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u209	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u210	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking as a Holding Company, given that it has brought me into the picture by calling the League Group. [[Senator Candiani stirs up the Rules of Procedure and points out that he wants to intervene.]] The deputy vicar leader, Stefano Candiani, made a point of order, specifically Rule 92, which, in case he did not remember, Mr President, reads: Points of order, agenda or priority for a debate or vote shall take precedence over the main issue and shall suspend the debate. [[Senator Santangelo presents a paper with the words: "Article 92, let me speak to you."]] You made a verbal point of order to my deputy for the simple reason that you requested that the Rules of Procedure be respected. You referred to the League Group and sent the Quaestors to our desks because we asked that the Rules of Procedure be respected. At the meeting which took place this morning before the sitting of this House, Parliamentary Groups were asked to have a different attitude than in the past, and I in this House assured you that the League Group would behave differently than in recent days, but I also asked you, Mr President, to enforce the Rules of Procedure and once again you are trampling on it, not allowing us to speak and not allowing us to use the Rules of Procedure as planned. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] I, President, do not accept this, because this is a parliamentary group which is regularly and democratically elected by the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] At a time when we are asking for this regulation to be respected, therefore, it is the citizens who voted for it, not Senator Candiani because he got up on the wrong foot. If the Vice Leader of the League makes a request to you, it's because the League Group is making a request, President. I do not accept that the Quaestors should only be sent to us for a request of this kind. Please enforce the Rules of Procedure, but respect it first, if you study it and do not use hinters. Study the Rules of Procedure as we are. [[Applause from the M5S groups and Senator Scibona.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u211	Senator Centinario, finish your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u212	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Study the Rules of Procedure as Senator Candiani does and as the League Group does, do not be suggested and respect the Rules of Procedure. Please enforce the Rules of Procedure, but you must respect it first. You do not use these police attitudes in this House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u213	Senator Candiani has the right to invoke Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure at a time when he raises a question about the Rules of Procedure different from that on which the President has already decided, as I told Senator Bonfrisco, because we cannot continue on a matter that has already been decided. If Senator Candiani is a different reason from what has already been represented before and on which it has been decided, he has the floor, but if he continues to invoke the Rules of Procedure for the same matter, he does not have the floor. Senator Candiani, tell us what you want to intervene for.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u214	You see, Mr President, as soon as I open my mouth, you will, of course, take the floor, because I assume that I want to prevent the work of this House, but if I cannot say what my request is, how can you deny me the floor? Here is already the contradiction of his former attitude. I say to you that I found the arrival of the Quaestors offensive and a reminder - yes, you called me back - because I asked for the floor on the Rules of Procedure. You could call me back after I made an inappropriate statement, but why is this prejudice to which if a request is made by a Senator of the League Group, it must necessarily be wrong and you do not give him the floor? This is wrong.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u215	I am still waiting to know what the new issue is about the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u216	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). You see, Mr President, here too we can establish a dialogue. Or it's up to you, sitting on top of... president. Actually, she's sitting on top of me. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). No, ma'am, let's not get by the nose. You're sitting on top. It is up to you to decide not to grant this dialogue, but at the moment we are talking, paradoxically, about the future status of guarantee of oppositions. I ask for the floor on a point of order and you not only do not give it to me, but you send me the Quaestors and censor me. I would ask you, please, to reflect on what we discussed a moment ago by recalling paragraph 5 of the same article and to remind you that here on 31 July last year, on the sex measure at first reading - there was then no Senator Tonini as Secretary of the Chamber, but there was Senator Ghedini - under her own Presidency, it was reiterated that, in the face of a request for a separate vote rejected by the House, no further separation of arguments can be made. That is what you said, and it was here on 31 July last year. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Simeoni.]] These are my technical arguments, but I complain to myself and to my colleagues about a preconceived position that I do not justify. Mr President, before I take the floor again, we are used to looking at each other's faces, but sometimes we should also look at ourselves, where it is written: 'justice'. You should know something about this. This is a regulation, and a reference to it does not amount to contempt, but - indeed - maximum respect for the House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Bocchino, Campanella and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u217	Senator Candiani, you put the same question previously raised and therefore the answer can only be identical. A request was made for a split vote, a vote was taken and the House voted. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 6.1032c, tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators, up to the words "Head of Opposition." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 6.1032c and amendments up to 6.1216c are therefore excluded. Amendment 6.1217c is inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u218	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u219	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u220	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to point out that you have taken preventive action on me because my microphone is marked with: Microphone in maintenance. Mr President, I am speaking in a personal capacity. I've been in politics for a while, as I think so many colleagues have. Sometimes you win and sometimes you lose, but this is an extremely important issue because it is - at the bottom - the Constitution. However, I have also become accustomed to playing with the referee; but in this case, unfortunately, I do not see him and, therefore, I let you continue the work with serenity. I say hello to you, Mr. President. You'll be happy too. We'll meet at some point. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Don't worry, and I'll continue to be a referee. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] VOLPI (LN-Aut). I'm going out without the Senators' invitation. [[Senator Volpi leaves the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u221	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u222	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u223	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Thank you, Commander. I intervene because I need a couple of clarifications; without making controversy, but only to understand how it is possible to collaborate all for the future work that awaits us in the next ten days. You, Mr President, first referred, if I am not mistaken, to Rule 102 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, which gives you the right to change the voting order. What is not clear to me is how it can change the order of votes if one of those that has to be reversed has already been done. I ask you if you can clarify for the future. [[Senator Santagelo presents a paper with the words: "Article 92, let me speak to you."]] I would like another clarification, because it seems to me that in the end we have lost an hour debating his choices, rather than the Constitution. I would like to remind you of Rule 8 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure: The President represents the Senate (...) and ensures the smooth running of the Senate administration. It seems to me that good administration is a little scarce at the moment, but it is just an impression. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u224	Senator Bulgarelli, there is some difference between administration and legislative function. We are in the exercise of the legislative function and not in the administrative part, just to clarify. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6,910, on which the requested number of senators requested a secret ballot.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u225	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u226	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u227	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I am making a speech, yet another one of this evening. He will no longer hear my voice, as it is no longer my intention to call his attention, but I will show signs (the reason will be this and not obstructive purposes). Rule 92 (1) of the Rules of Procedure states: Points of order, agenda or priority for a debate or vote shall take precedence over the main issue and shall suspend the debate. If I raise my hand to speak and intervene in accordance with Rule 92 (1), you must have the kindness to give me the floor and make me speak. What you have just decided on in relation to Rule 102 (4) is wrong, and if it is wrong, I have to. Report it to him. It is not that your decision, by necessity of things, must be corrected; you too can make mistakes, like everyone else. Paragraph 4, to which you referred, refers to the order of votes. Mr President, you will be given suggestions later by the Secretary-General. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u228	Try to stick to the theme of your speech, Senator Santangelo, without making considerations that have nothing to do with it. However, the Presidency makes use of the cooperation of both the Secretaries and the assistants and of all those who are here and deserve identical respect. Understood? [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u229	Mr President, I am paying my attention to you. Forgive me for demanding the same treatment from you. I kept quiet because her majority was applauding her and it seemed fair to wait.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u230	Most people aren't mine, in the sense that I don't have a majority.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u231	[[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, when I lose my voice, I become much calmer. So you can stop me whenever you want and take off the video like you do on time, because this is one of the powers that you can exercise, pressing that button and removing the video. If you let me finish now, I'll be brief. [[Comments from the PD Group. Recalls of the President]] The split vote, if you entrust it to the Assembly (and entrust it to the Assembly), will be decided by a majority. So all you do is misuse the Rules of Procedure, giving strength to that majority which is not a majority in the Rules of Procedure Council. I called her back this evening at least three times, I called her, I begged her to convene this Council, because she is making clear and obvious mistakes, not in my humble opinion, but in the opinion of many other colleagues, who know the Rules of Procedure and are also Vice Presidents of this House. Paragraph 4 of Rule 102 refers to the order of votes. The order of votes means voting first on one amendment rather than another, it does not mean voting on separate parts. If you have made a majority choose not to vote for separate parties, you have prevented the opposition from being able to play its role. If you have just prevented the transformation of an amendment into an agenda and have done so in accordance with your interpretation which has been made for the first time in history. The point of order made by Senator Candiani is just one of the many, many, many precedents that you yourself used in this House. And that will only increase this gap that there has been, this impossibility of discussing, Mr President. I have been and am currently a footballer, who for twenty-five years I have been honored to bring the FIGC card, I tell you that you are doing this way and right now you are playing the role of referee in an absolutely biased and partial way. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You are not applying a regulation that is clear to everyone. We, who are the players here, demand that this regulation be applied and not interpreted by you. If there is an intentional foul of hand, it must be punished with a kick of direct punishment and admonition, not according to its interpretation: it is the regulation. And the same goes for the Senate Rules of Procedure. As long as you, Mr President, continue to mortify Parliament and continue to mortify all the senators and Members of Parliament who are here, in violation of the Rules of Procedure, I, pursuant to Rule 92, will demand at any time to take the floor and leave to the acts of this House what you are doing with constitutional reform, because it is not a job like the others. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u232	We're clear on his concept.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u233	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, you're not letting me finish. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite you to conclude, Senator Santangelo, because you are always repeating the same concept. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, you are taking away my images! [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u234	I'm gonna take her word for it. SANTANGELO (M5S). This is the way in which the House is managed. Take the floor and also the pictures, but the Rules of Procedure do not touch him or the Constitution either! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u235	[[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u236	When the Presidency responds to a point of order - I say it in a quiet tone, because I do not use its tones, which are excessive - it does not express an opinion, but makes a final decision on the matter. SANTANGELO (M5S). It's not like that! The Rules of Procedure Committee is here!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u237	Therefore, repeating the same call, preventing the continuation of the work, is conduct censorable and incorrect [[Applause from the PD Group]] both vis-à-vis the Presidency and towards the entire Assembly, as agreed by this Presidency at its meeting on 17 April 2014. Therefore, the obstructionist intentions of the point of order, with the repetition of the same theme, will not be allowed. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] That's clear! [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC.]] [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u238	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u239	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u240	Senator Castaldi, I give you a word, as the parent company. CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business, including in order to remove the climate for a moment. I would like to make officially the request that I made earlier, politely, vis-à-vis. Our Group needs to meet, even with the children of the House of Deputies, because that is our way of doing it. [[Ironic Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u241	Silence: the Leader is speaking, Senator Castaldi, we must make everyone speak!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u242	[[Senator Russo's comments.]] CASTALDI (M5S). Senator Russo, can I continue? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Castaldi, talk to the presidency and not the other senators. CASTALDI (M5S). We therefore need to meet, also with Members, also because you, Mr President, do not tell us how you want to continue working on the articles. We have this need and therefore I ask you to meet us tomorrow morning, from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., also because today you really gave us the first teaspoon of castor oil. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u243	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u244	Senator Morra, I only gave the floor to the Parent Company.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u245	You may speak in an explanation of vote. MORRA (M5S). Mr President, I would just like to say that I do not think that the amendment was put to the vote on 6.28c. That's what I was desperately trying to say. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The amendment was declared inadmissible. MORRA (M5S). Has it now become inadmissible?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u246	It has not become so now. It is on the list of inadmissible amendments. I would like to cooperate on this point. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 6,910, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 6,910, tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,900, tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 6.2 is inadmissible. Montevecchi (M5S). You voted from your seat! [[Protests from the M5S Group]] Senator Montevecchi, why are you yelling? Montevecchi (M5S). The senator voted for others during the secret vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Ask for the floor. Montevecchi (M5S). He won't give it to me! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You start shouting before you even ask for the floor. I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, a Member of the PD Senator voted in place of the Senator who was absent at the secret vote. On the secret vote, I repeat. Mr Albano (PD). What are you talking about? Montevecchi (M5S). What do you say? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, we'll see the images and see if that vote is influential. MARTON (M5S). That's not possible, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marton, we must continue. I said we'll evaluate the secret vows and see if that's influential. SANTANGELO (M5S). But in what world do you live, President? Does the secret vote vote for another? What country do you live in? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But if there's no card, how can you vote for someone else? We'll look at the images and see. After all, we already have a Presidency Council to convene so we will evaluate the images of this secret vote there. I ask the operators to mark the moment in which the secret vote took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u247	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u248	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u249	Mr Caleo (PD). Mr President, I believe that never before do we need television images. I would like the Presidency to evaluate these images. I sat there because I'm not very well; I had to get up but I voted from here. MARTON (M5S). You've already voted! Mr Caleo (PD). Look at the images. Besides, you don't have to speculate like that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]] Colleagues, I've been sitting for hours. WOMAN (M5S). Like everyone else! Mr Caleo (PD). I got up twice. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Caleo, we understand. We'll go check it out. I would ask the Secretary Senators to cooperate on this point and the technicians to pay attention to this moment of the vote that will be verified in the Presidency Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u250	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u251	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u252	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, on a point of order. I have repeatedly called for the strict application of the Rules of Procedure: you are doing so today and I give you notice of it. However, the application must always apply, not only in the case requested by the Democratic Party's colleague. Since there has been a colleague of the 5 Star Movement who has repeatedly performed a sign and threatened to perform it again, the Rules of Procedure provide that nothing can be performed in here. (Senator Santangelo re-exposes a paper with the following words: "Article 92, let me speak"). So before they apply to others, they must have irreproachable behavior, because the law is the same for everyone and I thank you for your commitment today because it shows the difference from the previous days. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u253	Senator Buemi, it was justified by the fact that it is a white sheet to call attention rather than a sign. At least I didn't see any signs from here. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Invitation to avoid further behavior that can be exchanged for activities not allowed and to inform the Secretaries of any requests for intervention. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 6.2011.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u254	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u255	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u256	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to read this amendment. I think it's beneficial for everyone. To paragraph 1 (a), second sentence, add, in the end, the words: "Tendering to opposition groups in the formation of the agenda and in the organization of the proceedings of the Chamber and the Commissions appropriate times of intervention and sufficient political agibility in the parliamentary proceedings". It seems specially designed for these situations. Mr President, let me also refer to the comments made by Mr Buemi and others just now: we are relevant to the amendment because that is the issue. On the question of people who vote for others, who make their colleagues laugh so much, who do so normally... [[Brusio. References by the President]] In this House, it was an ordinary, almost normal, practice. Someone came here and began to report it from the first day and for two and a half years we have never, I repeat, never once, heard a measure taken. We consider ourselves to be an inverse act to display a cartel, a sheet of paper with the writing of the request made to the Presidency, it is considered a serious matter to be censored, even, or even to be punished by expulsion; but it is considered an irrelevant fact that someone - I do not know the specific case of Mr Caleo just now, but in general, for two and a half years on this side - has carried out a real scam, because it is a fraud: that in this House a colleague votes for an absentee is a scam and we have seen and reported not one, but a thousand, Mr President! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] It is considered subversive to display a cartel, but it is considered legitimate to vote for another, with all the consequences of the case. That is what is considered legitimate in this House and what you consider to be a practice. Well, you are the new constituent Fathers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u257	Senator Crimes, please we are on Amendment 6.2011.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u258	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, it is on the subject of the amendment, if you would allow me to justify it in this way.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u259	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u260	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u261	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I have prepared this amendment and I am well aware of our experience over the last few years, taking up exactly the reasoning that Senator Uras has put forward. The text of the article, as it was transmitted to us by the Chamber, is very ambiguous and objectively the use of the word "discipline" suggests, rather than the guarantee of oppositions, that perhaps we can proceed to discipline oppositions. For this reason, I have thought very carefully about restoring the idea of guaranteeing opposition groups in the preparation of the agenda, in the organisation of the proceedings of the House and the Commissions, in the appropriate speaking time. As far as the drawing up of the agenda is concerned - I must not remind you - despite the fact that in our Rules of Procedure there is a reference to the fact that oppositions are entitled to be able to see their own draft laws discussed, it never happens here, on the contrary, that part of the Rules of Procedure does not apply on a regular basis. I would also like to say, Mr President, that the habit of voting for others is ancient and unfortunately it is not resolved, obviously, in any parliamentary term. It was the first time that I entered this House (you can see the precedents): my Group then constantly received the reports and never took action. I think it would be appropriate, Mr President, once and for all, to take very serious measures. Our seriousness is at stake. In the workplace, if someone signs the card instead of another, thanks also and even more with the rules that you have approved, it is planned to dismiss. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini]] So let's try to act like the people we want to represent. We therefore fully respect the rules, but all of them, Mr President, also those to avoid the scam.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u262	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.2011, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.2012, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 6,2013, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words 'enforced Members'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Therefore, the remaining part of amendment 6,2013 and amendment 6,2014 are not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 6,2015.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u263	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u264	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u265	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, between the vote on one amendment and the other, I would ask you and the Secretary Senators to take a little look at this House. I would simply like to point out a detail of the reform that you are approving. In this reform it is expected that the Chamber Regulations provide for the status of minorities. I repeat, the Chamber Regulations. Too bad that, as you thought the Senate, there is no concept of a minority applicable to the Senate, because the Senate does not express trust, it has no beginning and an end, but it will be elected continuously by the various Regions, with advisors running around, and there is no real majority and minority. Let me give you an example. Suppose the PD has 30% of the senators, that is, the absolute majority of the number of future senators, and all the other parliamentary groups are under 30%, but all together they are against the PD, because they are all oppositions. So we have 70 percent opposition and the so-called minority that is actually majority in the House. So the rules for the minority apply to the minority understood as a relative majority or to the minorities understood as individual Groups, which then all together make majority in the Senate? You will find this as a problem in the Regulations, along with many other issues that are not clear with this reform. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let me give you another example of how this Senate and the Commission will work. Will the Commissions be there? Surely, you can't work differently, all constitutionalists have said so. But what Commissions will see that the Senate will only be competent in certain matters? All they're gonna do is the subjects that the Senate has competence in. But then you will find yourself with the fact that the Senate can call to itself all the measures approved by the House, to express an opinion on any measure and any matter, but it will not have the respective competent Commission. Then it will be necessary to make the Commissions: 100 senators in the Commissions to work perhaps for nothing, because it does not have to recall the measures. And then how are the Commissions composed, with what proportions, if there is no concept of majority and minority? Do you realize that you're building something that isn't holding up and that the consequences will come later? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u266	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 6,2015, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "absolute majority." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Therefore, the remaining part of amendment 6,2015 and amendment 6,2016 are not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6,913.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u267	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. [[Senator Endrizzi points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u268	You have the right to do so. Senator Endrizzi will intervene shortly afterwards.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u269	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, this is a common sense amendment, and that is why you will vote against it. It states: "In paragraph 1 (a), add at the end of the following period: The Presidents of the Regions and Regional Assemblies have the right, and if required, to participate in the Senate's work, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If this is to be the Senate of territorial institutions, if it is in the absence of the Presidents of the Regions, it practically does not make sense. It is expected that the Rules of Procedure will allow them to participate, to speak, without the right to vote, and to regulate their presence. And there is this need. Mr President, I would also ask you to reconsider the question of the time allocated to them, because you have distributed them by calculating those for the votes as well. Between inadmissible, inadmissible and 'kangaroo' amendments, time has been calculated as if there were so many votes when, in fact, we do very little. We therefore consider redistributing at least the voting time. Among other things, I would like to mention, with respect to certain smiles and ironic laughter with respect to oppositions, that this is the article that speaks of the Regulations that must protect oppositions. If this is the treatment, then it's a good joke. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u270	You have the floor, Senator Endrizzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u271	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I wanted to speak on the order of business, but I can wait, it is not urgent.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u272	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.913, tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 6.2017 to 6.1234c are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u273	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u274	I take note of this and give you the floor, but in fact your Group has not yet spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u275	SANTANGELO (M5S). Chiti did it! CASTALDI (M5S). Chiti can do it! PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, this article contains a very interesting first part. The guarantee of parliamentary minorities is included in the Constitution. Of course, it is also necessary to see what is meant by minority, as Senator Crimes said, if you mean the small groups that are also within the majority or you mean, instead, other groups. However, it is a very important rule and that is why I support it and favour it. In the second part, however, we are talking about the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies governing the statute of oppositions. But let us remember that the Rules of Procedure voted for it by a majority. So, basically, you put gags on oppositions. As Mr Castaldi also said, you are showing us with drops what the bottle full of castor oil could be to give to future oppositions. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u276	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u277	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u278	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we shall vote against this article, which, in the context of the whole electoral law and constitutional reform, should be much more careful to establish the rights of opposition to the House, which would be the only counterweight, but a counterweight without weight. That is why the Constitution is unbalanced. There should be guarantees regarding the answers that the Government must give to questions, for example, which we rarely see discussed and which rarely receive answers. Much worse than the average, which was not exceptional before. Questions which have been asked several times are not answered. And I think this was the place to put them. I can understand that we want to launch a 'dry' text, but the mere fact that on this, which was not just the only one in the article, there was no explanation on the part of the Government, the President of the Commission or the Democratic Party, already tells us what the statute of opposition is, that is to say, silent and without even obtaining answers.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u279	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u280	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u281	Mr Bruni (CoR). Mr President, we, too, Conservative Reformists, will vote against this article, as it was packaged in the dual passage of the Senate-Camera. I shall take up some of the points made earlier by Mr Crimes. Indeed, the House has the problem of regulating the rights and the presence of oppositions and the right to remain alive in that legislative assembly. As far as the Senate is concerned, the general vice of not knowing which Senate we are talking about, how it will be formed and what the majorities will be, provided that they form: the hypothesis, colleague Crimes, in fact, is that they do not even form majorities in the Senate, but that there may be a whole series of subjects and groups perhaps expressed in the regions of origin on a localistic basis, with another type of political presence compared to the traditional one that we have known until today or to what will be formed in the Chamber because of Italicum. It remains the regret of a series of amendments that all the oppositions had tabled to improve the text that came out of the House and to give greater protection to the oppositions in general, even as far as the Chamber of Deputies alone is concerned, but this has not been done. Senator Calderoli was also right when he said that a requirement of common sense included in his amendment, such as that of ensuring the presence of the Presidents of the Regions, since this Senate will basically relate and have relations with the Regions, has not even been taken into account. This article 6, as it is and as it has been modified in the passage from the Senate to the House in the previous two readings, cannot be accepted at all. Our vote is therefore against. [[Applause from Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u282	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u283	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u284	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). Mr President, I am voting against Article 6 as a whole, and it seems to me that the result of the debate on it can be expressed through a paradox: it is precisely at a time when, rather than in other historical circumstances, we tend to emphasize the aspect of rights, which are instead conculcated in practice the rights of oppositions. This also makes it clear what opportunity was lost in this part of the debate: when we are in fact, from the constitutional point of view, I do not say towards a monocameralism, but above all towards the fact that it is the only Chamber of Deputies that can vote on the trust, we would have expected a more careful reflection on how oppositions could compete with the majority. Compete, precisely, comes from the Latin cum and petere, that is to look together for the best solutions. This passage, on the other hand, is resoundingly ignored and the theme of balance, once again, becomes one of the pivotal vulnus of this constitutional architecture. I therefore confirm our decision to vote against this article.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u285	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u286	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u287	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, the Group of the North Legacy will vote in favour of Article 6, which seeks to amend Article 64 of the Constitution, which regulates the functioning of the Chambers through the Regulations. We hope that with the provision of point (a), with regulations that protect and guarantee the rights of parliamentary minorities, there will be a better scenario and forecasts than has been the case in this House in the Senate, where (today too) minorities are not protected at all. On point (c) of Article 6, which provides that Members of Parliament have a duty to participate in the meetings of this House and in the work of the Commissions, we wonder what places such a precise rule in a Constitution which should express only general principles, guidelines and guidelines. After the insertion of paragraph 5 of Article 2, which makes the text of the Constitution no longer intelligible, clear and simple, we also introduce this mess. We wonder how the future senators - the senators advisors - will be able to respect this prediction and how the work of the Assembly and the Commissions of Palazzo Madama can be harmonized with the work of the nineteen Regional Councils and the Councils of the two Autonomous Provinces. We also wonder how compliance with this rule can be reconciled with the activity of the twenty-one senators. We wonder how Members of Parliament who are also members of the Government will be able to comply with this rule, who will be busy dealing with government issues. Certainly, as stated at last Saturday's session by Senator Finocchiaro, we are not Terracini, Calamandrei, Mortati, Ruini, Togliatti or De Gasperi, but with this shameful rewriting and revision of the Constitution you of the majority "widened to the Verdini" proved to be not servants of the people, but only of Renzi's servants who blackmail you for an armchair where you are and you will be unworthy to sit. I therefore declare the North League Group's vote against. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u288	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u289	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u290	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, of course we shall be voting against this article for many reasons, including the formula, which seems particularly messy to us too. We do not understand very well the reference of the first paragraph to parliamentary minorities, which then becomes the reference, in the second paragraph, to the regulation of the statute of opposition by the House of Deputies. It seems to us one of the many messes of this constitutional reform bill. Too bad that our amendments have been rejected as always, perhaps because they are considered obstructive. In fact, they were not, because they tried to regulate the substance - in this case, yes, better - what should be the functions of the opposition and also the rules and guarantees that in a democratic statute and constitution must be recognized as oppositions. Of course, the fundamental consideration remains, which is always the same: this article also shows what the choice has been made, that is to focus everything on the executive power and give little emphasis to the balances, the counterweights and all those democratic guarantees that make the role of the legislative power decisive. Mr President, let me finish by saying a very quick line, because I would not want the things that are happening tonight to prefigure future scenarios. Of course you are right and do well to challenge and even suppress (if you let me pass this word) all the behaviors detrimental to the right of every single senator and also the dignity of this House. In my opinion, it has therefore been sacrosanct to intervene in relation to the events that have taken place in recent days and the choices made are right. However, Mr President, what has happened in this House in the past few days must not be used to put in place a new method which clearly cannot eliminate the democratic confrontation. The opposition, the government and everyone else have no right to misbehave in this House, not only because they are wrong, but also because they offend the country. However, one thing is this and another thing is democratic confrontation. The latter can sometimes be harsh, but the harshness of a democratic confrontation is something else than illegitimate behavior. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You have had the demonstration that, although you do not have time, you have been able to speak and express these thoughts. So let us try as much as possible to ensure these interventions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u291	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u292	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u293	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, we are also voting against Article 6 (so Mr Puglia knows the vote he will be voting against). What happened in these days, and which had already happened in occasion of other measures, is a demonstration of the need for the Rules of Procedure to be the starting point for every activity within this Senate, as in the Chamber. The Rules of Procedure cannot be adapted to the wishes of the majority, as we have seen today; and not only today, because for two years now we have often seen them bend. Even in the small things the Rules of Procedure are being amended, as when Senator Puglia said that he would vote in dissent from the Group before we had made our explanation of vote and immediately you had to clarify the right and correct. But we have not seen the same zeal when it happened for the majority, on more than one occasion, even in the last few days. On the merits, what puzzles us about this article is that there are some statements such as: Members of Parliament have a duty to participate in the meetings of the Assembly and in the work of the Commissions. So left "hung" a duty, if it is not sanctioned, how can it then be managed? Duty is a duty, as in this case. However, we have a duty and we did not even need to write it in the Constitution; yet some of our colleagues only see it in this House when we have to get the votes together for a reform that the majority of those present do not want. That is the case where we see some of our colleagues, but then we have not seen them for two years. There are colleagues who have been present two or three times in a year; that is the reality. It may have been necessary to sanction them, and we had proposed amendments to that effect, setting out a minimum of presences to be guaranteed. In relation to the prediction that the Chambers' regulations guarantee the rights of parliamentary minorities, President Finocchiaro rightly pointed out that this is a forecast that was inserted on the basis of oppositions. Of course, but this goes to highlight the whole of this reform, which is not standing, for the reasons I said earlier. It is the whole of this reform that does not stand. We can also put on pills of wisdom, such as the statute of opposition or respect for parliamentary minorities, but they do not stand up, because they still fail to heal the reproach of what is in this reform. A Senate made in this way cannot be a valid Chamber, especially in view of the high functions that have been left (very few) on electoral laws and constitutional reforms. This future Senate will be called upon to intervene on those rules. CASTALDI (M5S). I'm asking you to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u294	Senator Castaldi, I will reply to your request immediately after the vote on Rule 6. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 6.0.200 is inadmissible. Senator Castaldi, I understand the needs of your Group to be able to meet. However, I would ask my colleagues in the House to consider the needs and timetable we have on constitutional reform, with clear deadlines. I could try to meet you, if there are no comments from the other groups, proposing that the sitting be suspended at 1 p.m. instead of 1.30 p.m. to give this opportunity, using part of the time allocated to the timetable. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] This is how I try to meet everyone's needs.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u295	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u296	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u297	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I should like to remind you that the President of a Party has even asked you to convene the Conference of Leaders and you have allowed that to happen. I asked her instead to allow the group meeting for two hours, from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., since we work from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. and she also knows the condition of some of our senators, but she does not allow us to do so. I reserve the right to make another request and, softly, accept what you deny me.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u298	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u299	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u300	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, you have seen that I did not insist on this before, despite the fact that the Rules of Procedure allow me to interrupt the work at that time. The question is not urgent, in the sense of minutes, but it is urgent in the sense of necessity. We have made many other requests to her, in addition to that of President Castaldi, to whom she has just responded negatively. My request is also procedural, but it is basically a political request. I have in fact gathered voices in the corridors for which, in a bad or unbecoming way to see, among people of the same party has already denied the possibility of intervening on Article 39 of the bill under consideration. I would also like to explain to the citizens what Article 39 deals with: it lays down transitional provisions. It is said that, until the Constitution comes into force fully, the regional councillors will choose among themselves, voting for them within them, the senators. Another point in the reform, which has already been voted on, states that a law will be passed on this subject, but we do not know how. We do not see how we can guarantee this and, indeed, we have already described why this law will never come. Basically, as often happens - even if our order forbids it - something has been promised to "dead father." We will have to resolve this problem, which is not just internal coherence of the Constitution, which says one thing in one article and another says another. We will also have to solve a matter of truth in the relationship between us. In essence, it is said, but then it is denied in fact, that an election which corresponds to the will of the people does not constitute a problem. If a pact within the majority has been made - and I am sorry that it has been limited to the majority - we have to see if it will be respected. Around this, therefore, the question of the emendability of Article 39. Mr President, I have understood your situation and your situation in this House and I do not have much illusions. However, if we want to move forward, we must leave room for ideas and frankness. We will therefore try to understand where you want us: if you want us on the roofs - and citizens have understood what we have done on the roofs - or if you want part of a dialogue, with our proposals. In the latter case, at least give way to vote on our proposals, to accept them or to reject them. This is democracy and do not prevent people from voting! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Outside of all obstruction, we have tabled 5 amendments to Article 39 and not 50 000. To deny this possibility is to bring down a veil of lies: you can argue that this could instead restore the truth. I say to you, Mr President, that if tomorrow morning we do not have an answer to this question, then you will enforce the Rules of Procedure, starting with the benches of the Government. The government should not be there while discussing a Constitution; it should not have presented a text; it should not have imposed the calendar; it should not have put Diktats on how or not to amend. At least undersecretary Pizzetti shouldn't be in that chair. If we want to move towards an escalation of pedissequa analysis and exhaustion of the Rules of Procedure, I believe that the road is open. You can close it, Mr President, and open a way of reasonableness.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u301	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u302	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u303	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, with regard to the last vote, I would like to keep to the acts that I voted wrong. Since I had said that I voted in dissent from the Group, but - alas - I was confused in the vote, I would say that my vote was abstaining. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. I will refer the continuation of the discussion of the constitutional bill No. 1429-B to another session.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u304	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u305	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u306	GRANAIOLA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to point out another victim of meningitis in Tuscany. This time he took away his life to a young mother of forty-four years of the Province of Prato, who for a week believed to have a banal influence and instead meningitis type C killed her. The ASL of Prato has activated all the necessary measures to avoid the spread of the disease, but I share the concerns of the regional councilor for the right to health for this first fatal case at the beginning of the bad season. Since the beginning of September this is the third case of meningitis; the first two occurred between Versilia and Pisa. With Chiara Pittalis, the woman who died Saturday night, the cases of meningitis in Tuscany since the beginning of 2015 have risen to thirty-two; seven deaths, of which three in Empoli, one in Florence, one in Arezzo, one in Prato and one in Massa Carrara. (21 p.m.) (Granaiola followed). I believe, President, that there is a need for a strong solicitation to the Higher Institute of Health to evaluate the situation in Tuscany in depth, which is beginning to be worrying also because the last case confirms the suspicion that this particular type of meningitis is a degeneration of the influenza virus, so it is necessary to pay close attention from the very first symptoms that may be misleading. No alarmisms, but due attention and an adequate vaccination campaign, and above all due, correct information from the Higher Institute of Health, cannot and must not delay. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u307	Senator Crimes, Senator Pizzetti, colleagues, the session is still underway, there are colleagues who need to speak. I would therefore ask you to continue speaking outside the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u308	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u309	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u310	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, while we are debating reform of the Senate, I would like to pay further attention to the creation of jobs, which is the real emergency in the country. Finally, the amount of jobs we can create in the recycling sector has been quantified. A recent study by Bocconi shows them in 170,000 new jobs. That it is not a fake number also certifies the fact that the United Kingdom, which is not too different from Italy as a population and type of structure, has quantified them in 200,000. We already have the experience of China, which declared in 2013 - so even two years ago - 18 million employees in the recycling sector. We have a real mine in Italy, which we can exploit, and which we are not exploiting. Already other times we have talked about the 500,000 jobs in energy efficiency, the 350,000 jobs in the wood and wood industry. I would now like to focus on this, because it is a resource that could save us money, protect the environment and create jobs. The situation is quite different, because, on the one hand, we have eco-mafias and, on the other, we have a political will that encourages other types of policy. About 900,000 tonnes per year of WEEE (waste from electrical and electronic equipment) are managed by illegal waste merchants. For a couple of months now, there has been a real emergency that has been talked about too little: fires at recycling plants. Over the last few months, more than thirty recycling plants have been set on fire. It is clear that it is a deliberate, arsonous strategy that is too little talked about. Why? Perhaps because these plants are indirectly competing with incinerators, which have recently been unlocked by the decree "unblocks Italy"? Or is there too little talk about it because there is the hand of the camorra behind the waste management? As I said, only WEEE is about 900,000 tons a year. We therefore have a situation of great wealth that we could create, but politics and the government have strongly reduced the Forest Corps of the State and have exonerated the commander Ultimo, removing the coordination of the investigations of the NOE. As a 5 Star Movement we want this industrial conversion. We appeal to the Environment Minister Gianluca Galletti to make sure that the investigations on this matter return to the Environmental Carabinieri of the NOE. We call on the institutions, in general, to combat this phenomenon, particularly the ecocomaphysics.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u311	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u312	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u313	PADUA (PD). Madam President, I would like to leave the House with some very worrying news about me and the whole of Sicily. I therefore believe that our country cannot be disinterested by this great, new fracture that has opened on this island, completely isolated from the country: there has been the collapse of yet another viaduct, which blocks another highway. In April it happened that, due to the collapse of a viaduct, communications between Catania and Palermo were interrupted, with everything we have heard. You're trying to work, but we're still at the beginning. Now, due to a landslide, there has been another collapse and the motorway between Catania and Messina has been closed. Therefore, this island is definitely blocked, it is in total paralysis and I have a strong duty to say so in this House, so that you, Madam President, can represent it to the Government (here is the Undersecretary who listens). I know that our Minister Delrio in this Government is doing so much, but it is still too little because of the urgency of certain situations for too many years there has been interpathy, little attention to the environment, ineptitude. I do not know what happened, but we now have this responsibility and we must act. As you know, in Sicily traffic takes place only by road and the roads are so tanned; Sicily is divided into three and is blocked. The trains are not there and to get on a plane, for the Rome-Catania route, if you do not book six months before, you need 400 euros. This is the state of the art. This is not a lamentation, but a strong request. More needs to be done than our government is doing. I remember - and this is the reason for the intervention - that we have been waiting for thirty years for the Ragusa-Catania route and, thanks to the interest of Minister Delrio, this skein is getting a bit unraveled. Now the Convention is signed by Minister Padoan. I hope that Minister Padoan will be able to sign quickly to set off this other precious infrastructure, and I also hope - as the Minister assured me - that he was trying to work for this law of stability, and this is a strong request that I leave to the House - that we can work with that perspective, with the bill that I presented at the beginning of our parliamentary term, for territorial continuity for the islands. As is the case for Sardinia, for which air fares for the islanders are provided, we ask that the same be done for Sicily and other islands that are in the same condition (I have also included the island of Elba). At this moment Sicily is isolated. The goods that travel on these roads are all blocked are perishable, so there is the risk of losing millions of euros in an economic context that unfortunately still does not take off, as the rest of the country is gradually doing. So I absolutely ask you to pay great attention, because Sicily needs urgent answers, especially from the infrastructural point of view. Otherwise we take away hope and above all dignity to a people who every day manifests so much dignity. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u314	Undersecretary Pizzetti will be able to take note of his request so that the Government takes action as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u315	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u316	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u317	Mr Warra (PD). Madam President, I would like to speak about the situation of the Italian and Brazilian citizen Henrique Pizzolato, who will be extradited in two days' time if the Minister of Justice does not act promptly. We have spoken several times and have tabled several questions, unfortunately unheard of, on the need to block this extradition in order to protect human rights for the known inhuman and dangerous conditions of Brazil's prisons, but now I want to speak on another point. The extradition of Henrique Pizzolato involves a violation of our Constitution, which explicitly states in Article 24: The defence is inviolable right in any state and degree of proceedings. Well, the Italian citizen Henrique Pizzolato will not be able to defend himself, despite the fact that the preliminary hearing for a trial that concerns him before the judge for the preliminary investigation of Modena for 14 December 2015. Its extradition makes it impossible to defend itself which, I repeat, is a constitutional right if the Minister decides not to intervene. I would also point out that our Code of Criminal Procedure, Article 709, states that the execution of extradition is suspended if extraditing is to be judged on the territory of the State or is to serve a sentence on it... We're in exactly this situation. It is not in the availability of anyone to avoid applying this article 709. In its judgment of 13 November 2008, the Court of Cassation confirmed the mandatory nature of the case of suspension. If Minister Orlando does not intervene, not only the Constitution, but also subject to this article of law will be violated. I believe that intervention is also necessary because we know that other things have been violated. For example, the court's extradition clearance has not been obtained for the preliminary hearing. Pizzolato had asked on June 18, 2015 to be able to submit spontaneously to the prosecutor to be questioned and to demonstrate the unfoundedness of the accusations made against him; it was not possible for him. If extradition is not blocked, he cannot prove that he is innocent of the charge he is being charged with. I therefore ask, as we have already done with an urgent question to Minister Orlando, to intervene as a matter of urgency, because for 7 October the plane has already been booked on which the Italian citizen, as well as Brazilian, Henrique Pizzolato, will be brought to Brazil in violation of all the laws of our country, starting from the fundamental one. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u318	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u319	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u320	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Madam President, a tax cut and a growth of around 1% of GDP has been announced these days. It is also announced - and this is a proof of this - that the payment of the RAI can be included directly in the current bill: it was precisely the President-in-Office of the Council who announced it on television. He had already tried to put this issue into the electric bill last year, but it was sunk down for technical reasons that I believe he will have solved in the meantime. In this way - the energy companies argue - it will be a big mess. Our bills are already full of 50 percent of rumors that have nothing to do with electricity supply. The bill is already considered a car full of junk, just for 50 percent. Think what will happen if you go to disconnect the current just because you haven't paid that bill that includes the RAI fee. To interrupt the supply of energy with the danger of incurring the crime of interruption of public service? This is likely to be the case with the electricity companies. If the President of the Council goes all the way, including in the law of stability this clumsy idea, he will risk that the Italians will put it in the competent fora. What seems certain is that, with the modification of the fee, the fee will no longer be tied to the possession of the TV (and this was already a strange thing) but to that of the various smartphones, tablets and PCs with which you can see the RAI. Unless you appeal. And every user will have to ask for exemption, fill in various models and requests: and then God sends it good for exemption. I understand that we will no longer have the RAI fee, this tax so hated on the property of the television set, which will then fall on those who have an electricity meter. And here we'll see some good ones. And it doesn't matter if the President-in-Office also announced a reduction from EUR 113 to EUR 100 of the good subscription. On the subject of the RAI fee, precisely on the approach that you have on the ownership of a television, we believe that it is a tax that is called a wrong subscription. And we wonder if it still makes sense today to talk about the monopoly of public service. We also asked, in the many amendments tabled by us on the RAI issue, for the over 65 low incomes to be exempted. I see, however, that our demands have never been taken into account. We can see that this is not the House, but that we must go directly to RAI to represent certain issues. For this we are sorry and, probably, we will put in condition all Italian citizens, who pays and who does not pay, to open the antennas and not to trust what they say RAI 1, RAI 2 and RAI 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u321	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-517.ana.u322	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Tuesday, October 6, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21.16 a.m.
