ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:39 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 29 September.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.42 hours) begins. Waiting to decorate this term, I suspend the session. (The sitting was suspended at 9:43 a.m. and resumed at 10:03 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u8	On 30 September 2015, the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 153 of 30 September 2015 on urgent measures for public finance" (2070).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u9	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft Constitutional Act No 1429-B, which was first approved by the Senate and first amended by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u12	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask you to comment on the eligibility assessments you have made on Article 2. Mr President, I had noted, with care and respect, that you had taken a reasonable time to reflect on your expression of eligibility on the amendments referred to in Article 2; this had made me very hopeful that there might be a solution to the problem, that would allow the Senate to express its will as to how it should be made up and who should be elected to the future Senate. During the discussion, several constitutionalists indicated the possibility of accessing changes also to articles that had been read in accordance by Chamber and Senate. Many recalled the precedent of the then President of the Camera Napolitano, recalling that in the past, on the occasion of the reform of Article 68 of the Constitution, there had been a repeal of paragraphs that had already been voted by both the Chamber and the Senate. In the wake of that approach, I tabled an amendment to the fifth paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution which would consequently have resulted in the deletion of the second paragraph and the last part of the sixth paragraph. This amendment was found to be admissible only in the repealing part of the fifth subparagraph, while the repealing part of the second and sixth subparagraphs was dismissed. At this point, Mr President, I would ask you to give further thought to these eligibility decisions, because Rule 104 of our Rules of Procedure is quite flexible in relation to its timely application. In the Commission, the principle of contradictive nemina has been met. In this respect, if anyone had wanted to verify the signatories not already of a single amendment but of all the amendments tabled that provided for an elective Senate would have discovered that this proposal had been made by all the parliamentary groups, including the PD. So it was clear that political orientation was contradictive nemina. Even in the light of this, however, I am not convinced that the principle of contradictive nemine can be the only one to be followed, because the amendments to our Rules of Procedure do not require a unanimous vote but an absolute majority: therefore, theoretically, this House can abolish Rule 104 of our Rules of Procedure by an absolute majority. If there is such a straightforward issue with regard to the debate that we have in place, I believe, Mr President, before we continue or at any rate to reflect, that you have an instrument at your disposal to assess the admissibility of the amendments and the admissibility of the amendments. These decisions are certainly of your power, but you have an instrument called the Giunta per il Regolamento, which you can consult in order to obtain an opinion that is not conditioning, after which it is still up to you to decide, but it is time to end with the fact that such sensitive issues do not see the use of the Giunta's instrument. Why must the Junta no longer meet? For the simple fact that the movements within the various groups have meant that today, unfortunately (and I say unfortunately because it is a consequence of the lack of Senator Donato Bruno), we are in a situation of balance between majority and opposition (before the oppositions were even in majority); but it is not possible to use the available instruments only when they are convenient. I am not referring to you, Mr President, because I know very well that the vetoes come from others to bring the Junta together. Some people think that the Commissions - rightly because the Constitution says so and our Rules of Procedure say so - must have a composition that is proportional to the composition of the Groups in this House. But when it comes to Junta, it's not like that. Our Rules of Procedure only determine the number of components and the fact that, where possible, there must be at least one element per Group, and if it is not possible the number is broken and this is not achieved. This says the Rules of Procedure and any other attempt to amend a guarantee body, such as the Councils, at their own use and consumption or rather not to convene them because it is of course helpful I cannot understand it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami.]] I would therefore urge you, Mr President, to address the Junta in order to settle this issue. I note that there has been a revisiting of his opinion in relation to the eligibility that had been given in the Commission, and this is a step forward. Let's do it completely and you'll see that the work will continue better. Mr President, I offer you a piece of advice for the economy: since we print all the amendments, including the inadmissible ones, at this point only the eligible ones should be printed. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] In fact, of the full file of the amendments to Article 2 (certainly not on my own responsibility, because I have four amendments) remaining only a few pages and it seems to me an insult to throw this mountain of paper to the ground. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Floris.]] So let us have the eligibility and give us what we have to work on, because there is further work to clean up. Also summon the Board for the Rules of Procedure. Do not assume the responsibilities that I know in your heart would never assume. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u13	Senator Calderoli, I must also say that if you had not had the opportunity to look at the list of inadmissible amendments, it would not have been easy for you to ask these questions, so that list of inadmissible amendments is also used to assess the eligibility of this House. You have to give me credit for that.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u16	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, my amendment 1,607, which was printed on page 84, only amended the second sentence of the fifth paragraph of Article 55 of the Constitution, which also applies to Senator Cociancich's amendment, because that is the same. I would therefore ask that it be applied as a sub-amendment, because, having not been able to know in advance the text of Senator Cociancich's amendment, we did not have the opportunity to amend it. At the same time, having read Cociancich's interviews in the newspapers today and since this amendment does not affect what he wants to achieve, I hope that he will take into account the idea of accepting its reformulation. I therefore ask the President to put my text to the vote as a sub-amendment and to Senator Cociancich to accept its rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u19	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, on the issue of eligibility, let us try to speak clearly and also in an understandable way outside this House, not only for the press, but also for the citizens. We are discussing your choice of declaring an avalanche of amendments inadmissible, but also an avalanche of issues: it is not a matter of number but of merit, because they could restore coherence to the new text of the Constitution which today, as it is presented to us, is a gangland of junk. I do not say that, but it has been said in the hearing by many professors, esteemed on one side and on the other, called to intervene and all have found at least one unacceptable vulnus to correct, from the presidential appointment of 5% of the senators, to the duration of these presidential senators which corresponds to the seven-year term, to the parliamentary immunity unmistakably attributed to regional councillors who find themselves having legislative and executive power at their head. I therefore believe that you must take responsibility today for the hope that we can really bring about progress with constitutional reform and not institutional chaos. I quote how I succeed, because I do not have the stature, the words of Professor Pace who said: be careful, you cannot exclude from the possibility of amending all the cases that today do not correspond to the principles of the Constitution and introduce inconsistencies, contradictions, heavy situations that will go to invest the Constitutional Court. Nor can you think that the vote in a confirmed referendum even closes the issue. Do not hope that the Constitutional Court will be silent on all this, because it is not possible; lively, it is taken from the power of Parliament to destroy the Constitution and bend it at will. Today we have the right to intervene in order to make that proposal which you have invoked and which you are rejecting today, ladies and gentlemen. We have the right to see recognition of the possibility of debating, and if the extent of the amendments can be a problem, the Rules of Procedure will make changes which will make Parliament's work more fluid. We've always said that. It is not the amendment of the Constitution, it is the rules of engagement in here that can and must be usefully modified. And yet, precisely the principal instrument, the Junta for the Rules of Procedure, is not convened, and is not called for truly low-profile reasons. It is not called because the Democratic Party knows very well that it cannot control people's consciences, and so it does so in a surreptitious way. Here we have a clear violation of the Constitution where it provides for the absence of a mandate. In our view, this bond of mandate was to be introduced, always under the terms of the Rules of Procedure, where it could prevent instrumental transhumance. We know that governability is not achieved by the design that emerges from this reform. This reform simply outlines an illiberal compression of Italian politics to a mutual bipartitism, where we have an alternation between business partners excluding the possibility of third-party voices. Then we could and should have regulated the variable majorities according to the principle of loyalty to the mandate received by the citizens; not limiting conscience, but obliging conscience to respect the electoral programme. Quoting precisely the words of the Premier, who said "I want to know the day after who won," well I want to take this from the parliamentarians too. If this is the basis for the pact with the citizens, I want Members of Parliament not to be able to escape from this commitment. No Member of Parliament, Senator in this case, of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, has ever made a commitment to the citizens to avoid this task. Nor did you, Mr President. From this point of view, your consciences are then fully invested in the responsibility, which is now possible, to restore the proper conduct of dialogue and dialectic in this House. In the absence of this, responsibility will become guilt and it will become a stain, and you, Mr President, who, like me, but in a very different way, are here in this House for the first time in this parliamentary term, perhaps this stain does not deserve it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u20	I would like to put on the agenda the beginning of this day of work, because I said that we are on Rule 1. Senators De Petris and Bonfrisco were asked to speak on the issue raised. I would ask you, if it is on the same issue as Article 2, to intervene when we begin to deal with this article. Perhaps then we will have to resume these speeches in order to give some order to the work of the House. Therefore, since we are on Article 1, I would like to know whether you are asking to speak on the order of business in relation to Article 1 or Article 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u23	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, as you know, as a group leader, I can ask you to speak on the order of business. However, we cannot do anything here, because the issues raised last night on the subject of the secret vote and this morning on the more general problem that I intend to pose - because you, Mr President, last night you gave us the inadmissibility at the end of the sitting and we were able to see it this night - are all closely linked to each other. There is no difference between the procedural debate on Article 1, which committed us a great deal last night, and what we are discussing today with regard to the issue that is being put to our attention by the extermination perpetrated through the list of inadmissibility. I do not want to bore you here again on this issue, but I expect you to answer the various requests concerning the convening of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. In particular, in my opinion, the delicacy of eligibility, especially with regard to Article 2, deserved not a choice in solitude but perhaps a true deepening within the Junta, if we want to do things well. Now, since we are always accused of having positions only of barriering and prejudice, I remember participating in the work of the Commission hoping that it was not, as usual, a farce but that it was a serious job and we spent many hours listening to the hearings (we have to tell you President, otherwise it is useless to listen to them, even if they will remain in the proceedings of the Senate); those hearings not only we listened to them, but we also asked questions, we studied the acts and we also heard other constitutionalists. You know perfectly well that the question of the admissibility of amendments to Article 2 was a central issue of those hearings. It is not that we have started over again, Mr President: very precisely we have put this issue to the attention of the auditors in most of the hearings, which means that it was obviously a subject on which a structured debate was necessary and that the interpretation of Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure was not so clear, because if it had been so clear also the constitutionalists - not us modest, but people who study these issues from a lifetime - would not have put the many problems that have been posed by a strict application of this Article. In the meantime, because they have brought to our attention, and therefore indirectly (and also directly) Mr President, to your attention, the fact that Article 104 could not apply automatically, perhaps also for ordinary procedures but all the more so for a constitutional revision bill, because the article leading with regard to all constitutional revisions and amendments is the one on which thousands and thousands of pages have been written: it is Article 138 of the Constitution, in whose spirit - I am referring to the weighting, the accurate choices and the pause for reflection between one reading and the other - is enclosed the guiding principle that must also oversee the application of all the Regulations. \The issues that have been raised with our amendments (but I have seen a lot of others) were varied and had a non-obstructional nature, also trying to restore some rationality and popular legitimacy to the Senate. In fact, as you know, Mr President, we have also tabled an amendment aimed at abolishing the Senate entirely for the dignity of this institution. However, many amendments have been tabled which have rightly been used in an attempt to offer proposals and solutions which could put the idea of a Senate with popular legitimacy back on track. This question cannot be closed simply because the amendments have been declared inadmissible (as only the agreed amendments and few others had to be declared admissible), as we will always be faced with them. I would remind you that very few of the amendments tabled in Article 2 are admissible, even with a series of inconsistencies with regard to the fifth paragraph (this is not the case for all, because there were other amendments, which also referred to this amended paragraph, which were declared admissible). We will be faced with the fact - and that is why we had to be careful to have a more balanced debate - that the amendments to Article 2 cannot be read, discussed and deepened without the article on the transitional rule. I say this to you, Mr President, because we had to calibrate the debate precisely in the light of the complexity of the issues before us. I am also thinking of the application of Article 104 and, therefore, whether or not the amendments are admissible. Among them are some which, in my opinion, would have had the opportunity to better resolve and provide a more appropriate solution, even in the wake of the government's influence on this reform, in order to make the article much more applicable. I believe that from this point of view you, Mr President, may have the opportunity to reconsider further. I shall conclude, Mr President. With reference to the convening of the Board for the Rules of Procedure, I note that today we have the possibility as we have all day and all the tranquility to convene it. This is an absolutely fundamental issue. We can no longer go on like this, with decisions which you, Mr President, are trying to take with all your good will - I have also seen a small effort - but which in the end, with the support of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, could help this House to give a slightly more decent robe to the Senate. This is the issue that we are putting to them again, because there is a risk that all this will end up being a total and exclusive exercise of discretion, such as what we have been witnessing since yesterday in this House. [[Applause from Senator De Cristofaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u25	Senator Bonfrisco, it seems to me that the invitation to procrastinate can be accepted when we deal with the same subject in Article 2. We're always on Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u26	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I would like to speak on Article 1. I ask you to give me a few minutes. I'll be very quick. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. BONFRISCO (CoR). From a more serene analysis that could be carried out during the night on the admissibility of the amendments tabled we find ourselves faced with a guillotine that has reduced to very few the approximately 150 amendments tabled by the Conservatives and Reformists Group (and this situation does not only concern my Group). From the pages we see as the summary that has remained of this, even with reference to Article 2, we are able to understand how the declarations of eligibility - as I said yesterday and I do not want to repeat myself today - have obviously not taken into account only procedural or regulatory issues. They also took into account an assessment of political opportunities, so that, regardless of the paradox of the 85 million amendments, even the amendments that had already been tabled in the Commission were not considered worthy of discussion. This is in very great contradiction, Mr President - and that is why I am making this request to you - with the fact that, I think, at the time of a reform process such as the constitutional one, everyone should keep to heart, that the Head of State reminded us only a few days ago with his wish, his hope that this debate can be as broad as possible in the synthesis he finds, precisely in order to respond to those principles, which also inspire our Regulations, of coexistence and cohesion that this Parliament is called to be able to represent in the political translation. That is why, Mr President, what has already been said applies to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and Petitions: that committee cannot be folded for the use of the majority. It is a Council for the Rules of Procedure: the word itself says so. I do not want to appear trivial in recalling that the representation of that cohesion which Parliament is already called upon to support must be guaranteed there. What should I point out to you, Mr President? That probably, in the fury of inadmissibility, not being able to carefully assess the issues, even though trenching behind the procedures, subtracting particularly important and significant texts from that useful and positive debate that will lead us to conclude this process by 13 October with the final vote, has prevented us from discussing very important issues, Mr President, which could have been the starting point (and perhaps also the arrival) of a composition which, perhaps, could easily have been found in this House. I am referring in particular - perhaps you already know - to the declaration of inadmissibility on Article 1, made yesterday, of the amendments with which our Group intended to put to the attention of this House, and of the majority to be able to assess carefully, the fact that perhaps it is time, in the context of a powerful transformation of the Constitutional Charter, not only to deal with the representation, representatives, regional advisers, territories recalled when it serves (but when it does not even need to be mentioned among the functions of the Senate), but also to leave the scope of the use of the instrument of the Senate for political purposes, and perhaps to enter in a concrete way, into life and in favour of the lives of citizens, families and Italian enterprises. The amendments to which I refer were three and concern the tax burden, namely how to put a limit in the Constitution to that tax burden which is the sum, as we know, of contributions and taxes; in a broader way, it is the sum, for what the citizen perceives, of a national tax pressure, that is, of the Government, and that in today's DEF is marked at 42.6 percent - I hope it can decrease - and of other fiscal pressures, such as territorial ones, which then make, as Totò said, the total of the sum or the sum of the total, constituting a very heavy burden for our citizens. Therefore, we should be able to indicate among the functions of the Senate that coordination of public finance is also useful to force the legislator, all the legislators, to keep in mind that overall the fiscal pressure of our country, between the different levels of government, cannot and must not exceed 40%. I am referring to those two fifths of GDP, calculated obviously on the GDP produced in the previous year, which perhaps would really allow us, as the only possible salvation from the crisis (this is my opinion), to restart activities on the basis of resources that are not taken away and absorbed by the State, sometimes even improperly, as I would point out, Mr President, without going into particular detail. You try to ask some citizens what is the relationship between the Revenue Agency and the citizen or between Equitalia and the citizen and how many companies have had to close down, two years ago, last year and probably again this year, not only because they have problems related to the crisis, but because they have very serious problems in not being able to pay taxes. I should like to end by asking you to review that eligibility, Mr President, and to allow this House to discuss and discuss such an important issue for the lives of Italians. Otherwise, this reform to the Italians will do nothing - as we have already said - and will end the same as the reform of the Provinces; a title, a commercial, but for the Italians nothing has changed: the same taxes and the same waste of public money. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Bignami.]] MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u27	You have the right to do so. I repeat, however, the invitation to talk about Article 1, Senator Mario Mauro, because we are examining Article 1. This other topic will be addressed, as well as those of a fiscal or local finance nature, in the continuation of the examination of the measure, because there will be other times when these issues can be included. I would therefore pray not to abuse the word on the order of business, which I grant, but to pray to remain on the subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u28	Mr President, in any case, if anyone here is abusing, it is not me; I would simply like to point this out. I also come back to the subject of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, but with reference to Rule 1. I am asking you, in other words, to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, rethinking what happened yesterday in this House and the comments made by several Members on the fact that it remains incomprehensible why, instead of voting on the amendments to Rule 1 in a sequence that favours what is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, i.e. from the farthest to the nearest, we are proceeding with a different criterion. You told us yesterday that not only the farthest to the nearest aspect does jurisprudence on the subject, because there is a complex of factors and there are also other elements that must be taken into account. Honestly, since you have not explained what these other elements are, I have tried to localise what other elements can and should be taken into account for that assessment to be made. There is a first objective element: if you do as you indicated, you make it possible for the Cociancich element to kangaroo others. This is certainly another element and another factor; but it is questionable whether this other factor can affect this passage. There is also the element and factor of the President-in-Office's eyebrow lift, but this too is questionable that we can and must take account of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u29	Senator Mauro, I do not allow you to allude to the fact that an eyebrow lift of anyone who can determine the voting order of the amendments, which has been carefully established by the Offices and followed by me. I won't let you do that. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bondi, Repetti and Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u30	I'm not alluding to anything. I don't make allusions, because everything is all too obvious! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] You tell me, however, whether you consider it appropriate to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, because the main criterion of the Rules of Procedure for examining amendments, that is, from the farthest to the nearest, we do not take this into account. That is my request. [[Applause from the LN-Aute Group of Senators Bell and Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u31	You know that there are other criteria for deleting or replacing articles and you know very well - better than anyone else, for your parliamentary experience - that these proposals take precedence. That is why I do not want to define this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u34	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business on Rule 1. It seems to me that Senator Mario Mauro's last speech has brought back a political question and certainly not a legal one. I would like to make a proposal, which I also hope will be accepted by the majority, because yesterday a very harsh debate took place in this House - some of which have now been resumed - on the use of the presentation of certain amendments which have also benefited from the fact that a specific procedural order, established in accordance with an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, has determined the presence of Senator Cociancich's amendment 1,203 at the next vote and, not far away, even if it will not occur, even that of Senator Finocchiaro (in fact, even Amendment 1,205, at the first signature of Senator Finocchiaro, if there had not been an amendment by Senator Cociancich, would have overwhelmed all the other proposals made by Senators in relation to paragraph 5 of Article 55 of the Constitution, referred to in Article 1). My proposal is as follows: if the majority effectively rejects to the sender the accusations of instrumentality, in political agreement and therefore also with the Presidency, the amendments of Senator Cociancich and Senator Finocchiaro at the end of the debate, possibly interpreting all the various proposals made by the senators both by majority and by opposition to this fifth paragraph as sub-amendments to those two amendments. Yesterday we certainly tried, in some cases, to tighten up the tone, but also - as I did myself in my next speech, entering into the substance of the proposals - to bring the debate back into the beehive of the substance. If, therefore, the majority rejects the accusations of the use of the tabling of amendments, which have been misinterpreted maliciously as amendments intended to act as a trap on the whole of the debate on Article 1, you, Mr President, without the need to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, listening to the opinion of the authors or even, if necessary, independently, just to clear the field from any accusation of malice, can, as has been done so many times, in fact almost every draft law when it creates possibilities for debate or uncertainty about the final outcome, postpone the vote of these two amendments at the end of the examination of all the alternative proposals. If the majority is so serene in their assessments and is so firm in rejecting the accusations of instrumentality, they can only agree with my proposal. Among other things, there are many amendments which have been declared inadmissible, between these two amendments by Senator Finocchiaro and Senator Cociancich and the end of the amendments referred to in paragraph 5, so we could, without further intensifying the debate, as could happen in the course of the direct examination of amendments 1,203 and 1,205, go quietly to vote on them after the examination of all the proposals, which can also be on individual periods of paragraph 5, as there are many, and therefore serenely proceed and close the work in absolute loyalty between the political parties. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u37	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, I believe that the comments made by my fellow Members on the order of votes are answered in a timely, clear and precise manner in Rule 102 of our Rules of Procedure, which gives the presidency of the Senate, while indicating the order in which the deleted amendments are first voted and then the others, the possibility, for a matter of opportunity, clarity and economy, of deciding a different order. It seems to me that there is no need for a Committee on the Rules of Procedure to clarify or otherwise interpret this rule, since it is clear, precise and precise, in the sense that it first establishes the order of vote for the individual amendments, when several proposed amendments have been tabled to an article, and then it lays down the rule of closure, which is to entrust this option to the Presidency, for a question of the economy of work and clarity in the conduct of the same. Do we want to go to the junta for the Rules of Procedure to compress this faculty, giving a different interpretation of what is clearly written in the rule? If you want to do so, do so, but it seems to me, Mr President, that you have no other option but to proceed in the course of the work, bearing in mind the principle of clarity and the economy of the work itself. These are the principles which must guide it in establishing the order of vote for the individual amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u40	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Thank you, Mr President. Attorney Falanga is certainly a good lawyer of the devil, but he reads only even pages and not odd ones. If you go to the beginning of the Rules of Procedure, you should also remind the Assembly and yourself of Rule 18, which, in paragraph 3, states that: It is up to the Council to decide on the initiative or examination of any proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure and its opinion on questions of interpretation of the Rules of Procedure submitted to it by the President of the Senate. It seems clear to me that if we are in Article 1 and so frequently stumble on positions which are not outlined and which must be defined, it is inevitable that if there is no clarification from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, accidents can only multiply. I remember, not for having lived it, but in memory of the news, that in a previous legislature, in the phase of constitutional change, the MPs of the DS Group, who was then in opposition, exercised an extraordinary work of reference to the Rules of Procedure, asking each senator for the intervention of the President for the convocation of the Junta, just on subjects absolutely identical or similar to those we are dealing with. Was that a democracy operation, while what the opposition is doing today is an obstruction operation? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] If it was democracy then it is democracy even today, otherwise it really means that those in here are discriminated against. I would remind you, Mr President, that I am still waiting for an answer on the reason why the secret vote for Amendment 1.10 was not allowed, which is exactly comparable to others such as Amendment 1.911. I understand that there may have been a stir and I also understand the difficulty of the Offices helping the President to give comprehensive answers. Mr President, therefore, call the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and do not listen to the devil's lawyers: listen to your conscience and, above all, read the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u41	We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1,732. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. I am referring exclusively to the vote on this amendment. [[Senator Barani points out that he wants to intervene.]] I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u44	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, I asked to speak in order to ask for all votes on the amendments to Article 1 to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure, otherwise this farce takes place for each vote. You must also look this way, Mr President. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u45	Senator Barani, Senator Santangelo's request has already been supported. You will be able to make your request at the next vote. [[Senator Endrizzi points out that he wants to intervene.]] I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,732 tabled by Senators Uras and Scilipoti Isgrò. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1.732 and amendments 1.735 and 1.733 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,203.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u48	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, you put the first part of amendment 1,732 to the vote, but you did not tell us exactly what this first part was. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The first part goes up to the words "regional specials." D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Is this the first period? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I reread the whole first part: "The Senate of the Republic represents the territorial institutions and the regional special autonomy." D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). So it's not even the first full period. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The vote cast precluded the remaining part of amendment 1,732 and amendments 1,735 and 1,733. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). I also needed this to understand some later situations and make evaluations. Then I had allowed myself to make a proposal, to which you did not even give a tranchant response of negative sign. My proposal also presupposed a dialogue with the majority, which you did not intend to activate. I find it a little difficult to record this lack of response in all senses, because my proposal was also a political one, not just a regulatory one. If perhaps you had the ability to question the majority, the majority could tell us clearly that you are not prepared to accept our proposal, which serves to clear the field from any malice and perhaps even from any sharpening of the debate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The majority have received your invitation to the House, and if you do not make requests, I cannot...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u51	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, this morning I wrote two lines to you in which I asked, and I ask, for the original text of amendment 1,203 to be acquired, which we are about to vote on. I know these are disliked things, but frankly, after the intervention of Senator Russo, who doubted the authenticity of my amendments, at this point I want to see the authentic copies too. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] and verify that the signature is authentic. What I saw yesterday in this House, and not only in previous times, I did not like: I am referring to the fact that Senator Mineo stood up saying that he had signed an amendment that was withdrawn without anyone saying anything to him. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senators Bignami and Campanella]] Senator Zanda, with a loud speaker, asked why President Romani and I were so angry with Senator Cociancich's amendment because ours was identical, but he said a fake for tabulas, because they are absolutely different. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] So, I don't want to believe that everything doesn't "turn" but frankly here of mouths of truth I see few around. I think Mr Cociancich's opinion is very high; he is not alone, as President Zanda said, a gentleman: he is a very good person and a very good senator, who comes to the Commission and to the House and always works. [[Applause from Senator Volpi]] I can also see that yesterday it was "dark"; I can see that nothing has been said about its amendment, even if it was in its power. I hear rumors that you, Senator Cociancich before you entered the Chamber, would have told more people that you were ignoring the content or scope of your amendment. ENDRIZZI (M5S). An amendment without your knowledge. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). At this point, Mr President, we are obviously faced with a political scam, that of the presentation, at the last moment and secretly, of an amendment signed by a single senator (and I have noticed that it is not the only one of these examples), but the fact that that amendment is not signed by the person concerned is called false in public action. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] I would ask you, Mr President, not to verify the will of Senator Cociancich (it seems strange to me that with the debate that has taken place has not taken place yet; he has given interviews and therefore the will is clear), but who brought that amendment: he may have a salesman or an official (I am fine with that), but I want to see if that signature is proof of calligraphic expertise. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] You must tell us whether or not he has signed that amendment. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u54	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I do not repeat what Senator Calderoli has just said, but it seems to me that during yesterday's rather complicated day everything has been said and the opposite of everything. The amendment tabled by Senator Cociancich is the fundamental amendment of Article 55 of the Constitution; but it is not fundamental just because it eliminates everything that comes after: it is the amendment that, if approved (and, having the Government's favourable opinion, will be approved), will be Article 55 of the new Constitution of the Italian Republic. I am surprised at how we get to the vote without anyone - I am not saying Senator Cociancich, who perhaps was not fully aware of this - intending to describe this amendment, which is the pillar of the new Constitution. Article 55, in fact, concerns the nature and functions of the new Senate. We are not talking about a marginal article, but about the central article of the new Constitution. After everything that happened yesterday, beyond the verification of the signature or not, we are going to vote without anyone in the majority taking the trouble to tell us what we are voting on. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Senator Finocchiaro approaches Senator Romani Paolo and addresses him a few words]] Excuse me? I can't hear you, Senator Finocchiaro. Do you do it? I was on my way to exactly this point. We are working on the new Constitution without rapporteur. Now it seems to me that President Finocchiaro says that, although the next amendment is relevant to him, he will describe the Cociancich amendment to us. We are very pleased with this, but I think that an answer is due not only to this Parliamentary Assembly, but also to the Italian citizens. Explain to the citizens what is the subject of the Cociancich amendment, which will be the rewording of Article 55, which will be printed and taught in Italian schools to the next generations of Italian citizens. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senators Candiani, Simeoni and Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u57	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, before we proceed to the vote, to the explanations of vote and to everything that will happen after this amendment, I would ask you to explain the consequences of the foreclosures resulting from the possible adoption of the amendment "unknown to you" Cociancich. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] More to understand how we must vote, because according to the foreclosures we can also evaluate a different expression of vote. So we would like to know, with a detailed list, which amendments are not included in Senator Cociancich's amendment and which, on the other hand, survive in order to be able to organize ourselves for subsequent votes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u60	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, I believe that the work in this House is going in a direction that will give posterity a bleak picture of how Parliament, and in particular the Senate of the Republic, is dealing with the amendment of the Constitution. I read in his face, President, a sense of embarrassment if not bitterness. You will probably think that it was quite a different fate to those who preceded you in 1948 on that scranno, because President Bonomi had the pride to govern an Assembly where the debate, the confrontation, the effort of the political forces was directed towards other arrivals and other destinies. And so it was, so much so that today we read the pages of the accounts of that time with pride and to those pages and the spirit of the constituent Fathers we should inspire ourselves today. Now, Mr President, I have listened to words of great common sense in the speeches of my colleagues from the opposition forces before me. Since we are about to vote on an amendment which represents a watershed, an important amendment which will give the final wording of Article 55 of the Constitution, given that we have not yet understood in substance the formal aspects to which Mr Calderoli referred, but the substantive aspects which have not been reflected in a complete illustration, and I also expect the legitimate aspiration of the opposition forces, but I also believe that some of my colleagues in the majority have contributed to a more complete drafting, the result of a mature and responsible debate as regards Article 55, I would ask you, President, to suspend the work for half an hour. This is in order to allow political forces also to find a balance that will restore peace to the House and respect for the thought and proposals, which are not obstructive, of the opposition forces. This would allow you, Mr President, to regain your pride in ruling an Assembly that strives to hand over to the country a Constitution that we will not have to repent of. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u63	Orellana (Mist). Mr President, I would like to make an explanation of vote on Amendment No 1,203 by making a small premise for expressing my personal solidarity with Mr Cociancich, who, as Mr Calderoli said earlier, esteemed and I know for his correctness and was the subject of unjustified attacks yesterday. The problem is that we are, quite rightly, accepting a completely replacement amendment to a paragraph which is voted on earlier, as is clearly clear from the Rules of Procedure. That is what other colleagues have done, myself, Mr Paolo Romani and Mr Caliendo. All of these people have not been accused of the same nefariousness that Mr Cociancich would have done. Since we are all the same in this House, I believe that this must be said clearly and without inflaming. So, on this point, I think we could take over. Yesterday I had allowed myself to have doubts about the fasciculation because I suspected that some amendments might have gone, but I left the problem to the offices. I also asked, realizing that if my amendment had passed, it would have precluded many more, the split vote. This is not what this House wanted, and I imagine that for all the completely replacement amendments we would have the same result, so I do not want to call for this. Turning to the substance of the amendment, my vote will be in favour. In fact, although there is no correspondence with my text, in which I asked for speeches on Title I and Title II of Part One of the Constitution with regard to the competence of the Senate and on aspects relating to subsidiarity in relations with the European Union, the text presented by Senator Cociancich represents a marked improvement compared to the current text that comes to us from the House. That is why my vote will be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u66	LANZILLOTTA (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak on our work in order to make a contribution, in particular, to President Romani, who was absent while I was chairing this House. We are now in an explanation of vote, but there have been stages in the process of this measure, which was not taken part by President Romani as well: I am referring to the general debate and the explanation of the amendments, which has even ended five hours ahead of the deadline. During that phase Mr Cociancich spoke on both occasions, who for about twenty minutes explained exactly [[Applause from Senators Cardinals and Ginetti]] the substance of this amendment to the heart of the measure, which will then be further explained at the stage of the explanation of vote by President Finocchiaro. However, I do not believe that we can always be in the year zero and not remember the previous stages of the iter. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC) and the Bondi, Repetti and Orellana senators]] Senator Cociancich spoke, announced amendments and said what would be the port point, with regard to the Group of the Democratic Party, the nature and functions of the new Senate. This should also be remembered for those who listen to this exciting debate, otherwise it seems that we have done nothing to date. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC) and Senator Bondi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u68	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u69	MINEO (PD). Mr President, I shall vote against Mr Cociancich's amendment, although I agree with what Senator Orellana said just now: it is not the only amendment that precludes many others, but it seems to me to be an important political fact that violates the pacts that have been made outside the House and the Commission. If I did not understand correctly, it was said that nothing could be changed in Article 2 on the electivity of the senators; there is an agreement and to that we must stick, even if some constitutionalists such as Peace claim that this agreement will not exceed the scrutiny of the Constitutional Court; instead, it will be granted to the oppositions to intervene on the competences of the Senate. In fact, Senator Cociancich's amendment denies this House the possibility of intervening and improving on the subject of the competences of the Senate, so to some extent it restricts the debate even more by turning it only into a yes or a no compared to what the Government wants. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u72	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to make a few comments on the procedural issue. Yesterday we held a long debate in relation to Article 1 even in harsh tones, but we realized that lately the comparison in this House often tends to go over the lines of all political parties (here no one can give ethical lessons to anyone). We have also received all your statements of inadmissibility on Articles 1 and 2 and we have seen that the secret ballots you gave on Article 1 are in danger of not being carried out. We therefore ask you to understand, before we proceed to the further debate on Article 1, what would really preclude the adoption of Senator Cociancich's amendment, because there are still amendments in existence, but we have well understood that the adoption of that amendment could cause them to lapse. I think it is honest for everyone to really know what you wanted to do with this amendment, by subtracting an important debate from Parliament and the Senate. We are talking about the reform of the Constitution, which you have trivialized and transformed into the Renzi-Verdini reform. Therefore, we understand that you are not interested in discussing it because you are somewhat ashamed, to the end, of this political axis that has suddenly been created, but we would like to remind you that a serious reform also requires you to address issues on the substance, from which we see that you are fleeing. The question on the substance is to discuss the real functions of the Senate, to understand why you have allowed the House to profoundly change the functions of the Senate that is no longer the holder of unique functions, but competitors, and also to make an assessment of the role of the Regions. For us, the silence of the Presidents of the Regions is incomprehensible. They see important functions being removed and these functions are being re-centralised to the State. Although we may have different ideas about the institutional design to be rebuilt, this does not justify that we should subtract the Senate from a debate on the subject. Today and yesterday you have given us lessons on participation, on the importance of listening, on the hours devoted to the general discussion and on the illustration of the amendments. Now, since we have all lived (I have the experience of two and a half years) the general discussions and the illustrations, and it is clear that the phase of the debate takes place precisely when the amendments are discussed. And you, once again, have decided to cut down all the basic democratic practices, which are dictated by the Constitution, our laws, the Senate's Rules of Procedure. You have decided, to violate all this and, totally indiscreet, you have decided, once again, to impose your scams which, in reality, are causing serious damage to the country and its democracy. Someone will have to take responsibility for this. In the name of the Renzi-Verdini reform, do not think that the axis so wide that it unites transversally different forces can subtract someone from the responsibility of infusing a hard blow to the democracy of this country. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Groups and Senators Bocchino and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u75	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I am still speaking on Mr Calderoli's request and not in an explanation of vote, because the explanation of vote depends first on the truth being established. Senator Orellana says very well that any replacement amendment would make all subsequent amendments impossible. But there is no worse lie than to tell the truth in half. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Because it is also true that an amendment replacing the minority would have left open to the majority the possibility, at the initiative of the Government, to intervene further without turning off the debate: the possibility that the minority does not have. Senator Orellana, with this half-lie and half-truth, tells another full truth: that he has been in the majority for a year and is a servant of this filth! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Having said that, we are going to vote today on a crucial amendment which could, as President Romani said before, become the subject of school texts, on which there is a heavy doubt that there may be a forgery. Now, when it is simple and immediate to clear a doubt of this kind and, despite this, this does not happen, what should we think? Is it physically and practically accessible? And we are not asking for it on every amendment, but on a crucial amendment for democracy at this stage of the debate! Then I ask you not to be responsible for the omission of office documents because it is your job to guarantee this House and the citizens who look to it. You, Mr President, are a public official and I do not have to teach you. I ask you not to endorse the doubts that we are legitimately asking. I do not care that for twenty minutes he argued because, dear colleague Lanzillotta, the illustration of the amendments was made in fascination, as if we had worked in the countryside, in a limited space where there would not have been the possibility of illustrating not 85 million, but not even a hundred amendments. As you yourself have said, Senator Cociancich has, if anything, outlined the general line and not his - or presumed - amendment. At this point, Mr President, the operation is very simple and it is also very simple to understand what is behind it if you do not do it: we have to verify that signature in the original.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u76	We must complete the explanations of vote. [[Senator Volpi points out that he wants to intervene]] Yeah, I get it. However, I have to understand whether this is an intervention on this issue or an explanation of vote because, in this case, one representative per group can speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u79	CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). Mr President, I do not want to offend my colleague, Mr Cociancich, whom I personally esteem. I realize that the operation was of obedience to party discipline. It is true that the Cociancich amendment "kills" the possibility of reasoning with serenity on what changes proposed by the minority to the discipline on the competences of the Senate can make sure that the damage resulting from this constitutional revision is not such as to make it, as I mentioned earlier, a wreckage body. The choice of the majority of a minority's "muteness" operation and the impediment to the opposition to intervene (even with moments of invitation to reflect on this subject) makes the final product of the work of this House something that has nothing to do with a Constitution. The Constitution of 1947 - the one in force, our Constitution - constituted a kind of peace treaty between the various parts of the Italian people, which was also discussed in a tight, negotiated and analyzed way by all, to which everyone participated and which everyone felt as their own. What will come out of this House will be a diktat by a parliamentary majority which is not such in the country and which imposes on the rest a balance between powers altered compared to the most basic liberal principles, creating the conditions for dissent not to be effectively manifested in the parliamentary classrooms. This aspect frankly concerns me and should concern me above all the current majority, also in view of the fact that with these changes is given to governments, majorities and parties of relative majority in the country such a great power, pervasive and without controls that it makes traumatic the modification of the Constitution that will emerge from these discussions. And it is something that I, as a sincere democrat and as a person who has sworn on this Constitution, would like to avoid in every way. That is why I am not only voting against the Mixed Group. The other Europe for Tsipras to this amendment but I invite all colleagues who sincerely care about the democratic balance of our Republic to do the same because it is an amendment that "saws" the Senate, making it useless. [[Applause from Senator Bocchino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u82	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, we will vote in favour of Senator Cociancich's amendment, even though we would have preferred our amendment 1,734 to be accepted in my first signature, which deals with the subject in a broader way, and which also assigns the Senate the task of participating in appointments to members of independent authorities, giving these authorities the third role that we believe is indispensable. Our amendment also provided for the Senate to give a mandatory, but not binding, opinion on the appointments of senior government officials. In any case, as a whole, Mr Cociancich's amendment meets our expectations, which is why we will vote in favour, also aware of the fact that the implementing laws, and in particular the specific laws possibly relating to the other authorities and appointments I mentioned earlier, can nevertheless provide for the specific opinion of the Senate, thus conferring on it that competence which is not further specified in the definition phase of the first paragraph of Article 55. I therefore declare the vote in favour of the Group for Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, aware of the need to find a balance between the various points of view, and hoping that this reform will be successful.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u85	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri has just made a request. I would like to address the House and I would like to quote Senator Cociancich for another explanatory statement which does not concern his amendment at the moment. Senator Cociancich will remember, as the Minister should remember, that I came to the first Commission to express a position, which was political like that of my colleagues, but very specific to the Government. I am sorry that Commissioner Lotti is not here today to commission the government, maybe he's in the room over there watching us on television, so the Minister doesn't give a damn about it, but it's normal, President. On that occasion, Senator Cociancich, I asked if those openings imagined at that time by the Government were a simple moment of institutional etiquette towards the President of the Republic, who had asked for the widest possible adherence to constitutional reforms, or if you of the majority and the government were pretending; do you remember that, Senator Cociancich? Mr President, you obviously did not have the opportunity to read my speech because it is the contribution of a mere opposition senator, but Senator Cociancich, who is a serious person, is nodding on what I am saying. I ask a specific question. This is a budgetary moment in relation to the attitudes that there are between majority and opposition, when we are amending the Constitution. You could go into the matter. However, Mr President, we have started with your absolutely personalised choices of inadmissibility: I do not have time to read the amendments and therefore I do not take them into account. We then went to the interpretation of the secret vote, where you, Mr President, should have explained to us the criterion of prevalence and not to have it explained to President Finocchiaro (of which I have great esteem, and you know it too). You are the President of this House. Without this passage, I believe that at the moment the Cociancich amendment (in this case I call it, because it is the name of the amendment) represents the boundary of the relationship between majority and opposition with respect to continuing the work on constitutional reform. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]] With the scams, with the banditry of the House, with these attempts to bring down the Senate, the Senate is not offended, but the President of the Republic is offended, who has asked this majority to ensure that all Parliament participates and can participate in the constitutional reform. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups and Senator Simeoni]] So have the dignity to say that you don't give a damn about the President of the Senate, whom you put unworthy pressure on, and even less about the message of unity of intent promoted by President Mattarella. Today you choose if you want to make your reforms, of which I know very well that you are not convinced either (and it is useless for you to make statements in a certain way) [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Simeoni]] , or if you intend to be part of a broad constitutional framework and share with the rest of the country, which is majority over parliamentary majorities [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , the political choice you are making that nothing has to do with it. One last invitation. This is a parliamentary matter: that four of the government's children stop threatening Parliament. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senators Bignami, De Pin and Vacciano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u88	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I did not want to be dragged into yet another controversy with Senator Cociancich, to whom I personally expressed - and I do so now publicly - my esteem. Unfortunately, President Lanzillotta wanted to stick me on my fingers, put on my donkey hat and send me behind the blackboard. I would like to say to President Lanzillotta that Senator Cociancich spoke in the general debate on 17 September and did not talk about the amendment that bears his signature. We are talking - and I repeat this - about a central amendment, the pillar of constitutional reform. I therefore feel authorised to ask that there be a widespread and detailed discussion on this subject and on this amending proposal and that, above all, there should be a widespread and detailed explanation, especially from the majority. That's what I wanted to say. So, dear President Lanzillotta, spare us your represses, because we, even if sometimes we are not in the Chamber, are still careful and certainly read the reports. So much I wanted to tell you and with this I would also close the controversy that bears the name and surname of Senator Cociancich. We are talking about Amendment 1,203, which amends Article 55 of the Constitution; we want to talk about this and we want to talk about this. And I hope that on this amendment, which will be what will be adopted at this point, there will be an opportunity to understand whether it goes in the direction of proper and fair constitutional reform or not. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u91	Mr Bruni (CoR). Mr President, I am voting against Senator Cociancich's amendment 1,203, on the basis of the consideration made by Senator Volpi, who said, both in relation to this amendment and in relation to what has happened since yesterday, that in fact all the decisions and interpretative doubts that we had before have always been resolved in the worst or least unfavourable way to the opposition. There was not one interpretation that went unfavorable to the majority. This is a fact that I am submitting to the House's reflection. The amendment that we are going to vote on has been blessed by several colleagues and obviously rewrites the competences of the Senate, so it will be a very important and decisive rule for the new system that provides for two rooms with different functions, referred to in Article 55 of the Constitution. Well, Senator Cociancich's amendment 1,203, as Senator Mineo said just now, is very little. When it was said that an agreement had to be reached, to have more space for dialogue between all the forces present in the Senate, it was hoped something more for various changes that had to take place in this third reading, but above all for Article 55 concerning the competences and functions of the Senate. I would point out that, during the transition to the House, the references to Articles 29 and 32 of the Constitution, although that had been a significant and important fact, one of the few votes on which at first reading there had been a serious debate that had led to that result thanks to the commitment of more political groups; but what remains in this amendment 1,203 is very little. As regards the Group of Conservatives and Reformists, as Senator Bonfrisco said earlier, among the amendments that were not considered admissible and could instead give an important meaning to Article 55 of the Constitution, there was also the reference to the tax burden, in order to constitute what, in less legal and less technical terms, could be a tax ceiling. This is a necessity, certainly felt by the citizen and perhaps not taken into consideration by the central government, because the tactics of the last governments was to pretend not to aggravate the tax pressure in Rome and to redistribute it on the other bodies (regions, provinces and municipalities) in a subtle way, because it is said that the tax pressure has not been touched, putting in extreme difficulty especially the mayors, the administrators of the local authorities closest to the citizens, who in the last budgets approved at the turn of the summer have had to make really unpopular maneuvers, touching every possible tax lever within them. Well, that was not only a flag amendment for our Group of Conservatives and Reformists, but it was a stand-alone principle that should have been welcomed by everyone. The matter has been resolved by declaring it inadmissible, as has been done for many other amendments by the opposition groups which raised questions not only of method but of principle; firm points that would have deserved better fate. In the end, this amendment reflects and is affected by the same genetic vice that concerned and concerns the whole reform since 2014, since it was introduced, at its beginnings: that is, a temporal goal is set and, in the name of this temporal goal to be achieved, one can safely not pursue the objective of legislative quality which should normally be a principle to which the legislator should be respected, especially when it comes to touching the Italian Constitution in such a meaningful and important way. That wasn't it. We reproduce - or rather, you reproduce and we record - the genetic vice of all the Renzian pseudoreforms, which promise so much and, when it's okay, do nothing, but when it goes wrong - as surely will happen in this case - they will cause enormous damage. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]] IN MAY (CoR). I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. [[Senator Marton points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator Marton, we're in the process of explanations of vote. MARTON (M5S). But I ask you to speak on the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u92	We allow Senator Di Maggio to make his explanation of vote, and then I will give you the floor on the order of business. [[Senator Marton's comments.]] Senator Marton, I don't know about this before. I have already given the floor to Senator Di Maggio and, at the end of the speech, he will be able to speak on the order of business. MARTON (M5S). You are not following the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u93	Mr President, I shall see to it that I maintain, even in terms of the calmness that I usually have, in order to avoid that there is only a trace of the boutades made to take the attention, but distracting it from the content. The invitation I addressed to the Presidency yesterday was to try to understand the role of opposition, especially in a debate that sees us engaged on the architrave of the country's rules. If so, I have asked you an initial question, Mr President. Since we have not been able to open a debate in the institutional seat of our own, which is that of the Commission, and since we have had to assist in this parliamentary process in all those forces that have compressed the role of opposition, I would ask you, Mr President, at the time when Senator Cociancich's amendment was to be adopted, what is the role of opposition, since we are not guaranteed absolutely and in no way - even by your Presidency, and I do not want to do so, President Grasso - what should be our political flexibility, in a serious and constructive parliamentary debate. If that is the case, Mr President, I wonder - and I also ask the other colleagues in the opposition - what we are doing in this Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Volpi]] Would it not be better, if these are the rules of engagement, for us all to leave the House together and allow this reform to be done to those who want to do it, in the way and with the methods by which we want to approve it? I would not want you to end up, Mr President, rather than the executioner of the Constitution, as the executioner of democracy. [[Comments from the PD Group. Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u94	Senator Di Maggio, I understand that you didn't want to arouse attention, but I think you should have measured the sentences. We have been debating for two days and we are still in Article 1. [[Senator Volpi's comments.]] AIROLA (M5S). You have to ask yourself why and give yourself answers! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have had everything discussed, we have voted for substitute and deleterious amendments and, therefore, you cannot say certain things. Senator Marton had asked to speak on the order of business. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u95	Mr President, for the umpteenth time we invoke Rule 92 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, which you would be obliged, as the guarantor of compliance with the Rules of Procedure, to apply. At the moment when you point out that you want to intervene on the order of business, pursuant to article 92, paragraph 1, should give priority to those who make this request, interrupting the explanations of vote, at any stage you find the work, because the speaker could change the state and, therefore, the continuation. Therefore, I invite you, when you make such a request, even by raising the tone of your voice - it is the only way to make yourself heard, if the Secretary Senators do not help you - not to give the floor to those who asked you for an explanation of vote, to stop the work, to make those who ask to speak on the order of business and to listen to what you have to say, possibly interrupting it, where you are digressing. This is not, however, what I would like to do. For once, I would like to agree with Senator Russo, who has asked a few days to verify all the signatures on the amendments tabled by the League. Let me conclude, Mr President: I already know that you would like to interrupt me. I myself - I have witnessed Senators Calderoli and Candiani - have adhered to Senator Russo's request and I have asked for them to be able to verify all the 80 million amendments, for a formal correctness, because I thought Senator Russo was right. Now, when you are asked to verify the signing of Senator Cociancich's amendment, there is no more or less than repeating a request made by the majority as well. And, therefore, I invite you to extend Senator Russo's request also to the members of the majority. Moreover, since I, like Senator Romani, am attentive to what has happened in this House and I have noticed that Senator Cociancich has not spoken to explain the amendments, I can say - and here there is nothing to do with the esteem or disestimation that one may have for another, given even the lack of knowledge of the person - that some small point that person may lose him when he lends himself to games to trample democracy. Regardless of whether or not Senator Cociancich made an operation that tramples on democracy. Senator Lanzillotta, in general discussion Senator Cociancich touched all points, starting from the senate's electivity to arrive at the functions that European legislation gives to the Senate, and therefore to control, but never the content of his amendment. Then it is no longer the doubts that Senator Romani has placed, but they are almost certainties. Has Senator Cociancich made this amendment or not? Did you or did you not sign this amendment? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the senator and Serra]] Mr President, I believe that it is your duty to verify this as soon as possible so that everything that comes from Senator Cociancich's amendment does not affect what the future Constitution will be. [[Applause from Senator Scibona.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u96	Senator Marton, according to his reasoning, all those who did not explain the amendments that, at the time of the illustration, were still 82 million... I said something much wider. PRESIDENT. - The debate is In any case, you know very well that the subject raised by Senator Russo has not been accepted, according to the decisions of the Presidency, but, on the contrary, the talk of established practice has taken place, and not of the rules of the Rules of Procedure. That was the decision. MARTON (M5S). It's not like that! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. To close also on the issue of the original signature, which has been placed several times (even by Senator Calderoli on other occasions), following the same established practice that certainly all parliamentarians who have more experience than I know, all signatures are considered authentic until proven otherwise, i.e. until the one who subscribed does not disown his signature. So, if Senator Cociancich were to disown his signature, he would have a title to initiate an investigation to understand who signed in his place. This is the established practice that we all know and that is the decision of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u99	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, what you have just said is very similar, from a logical-conceptual point of view, to the principle of contradictive nemine. We contradict the presumption of authenticity. It is very clear that you do not want to intervene to make a punctual check on the original, but I note - this was the meaning of Mr Marton's speech - that, from Senator Cociancich's mouth, does not even come a word to say that it confirms that it is his signature. This could at least poison the tones. I believe, however, that his embarrassed expression is linked not only to the fact of being, perhaps in spite of him, king for a day or a night, but also to the probability that this thing cannot say it. I would then like you to speak in an explanation of vote, say that the amendment is actually yours, explain it - which you did not - and ask for its vote for these or other reasons. And perhaps you could also tell us whether or not you agree that an instrumental use of your amendment is being made. This concerns the order of business. Then, when it is my turn to speak in an explanation of vote, you will let me know.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u100	I've been asking for a long time, President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u101	Senator Malan, I have just received your request.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u102	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I asked for an hour ago to speak on the order of business. The Secretary-General said he wrote down my request. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I need to know it's on the order of business. If I don't know... MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Please inform yourself if you don't know.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u105	TREMONTI (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). Mr President, Senators, the part of the Constitution on which this reform mainly insists has already been reformed more or less fifteen years ago. There were, unfortunately, three major errors, one method and two merit. As for the error of method, it was a reform made by a Parliament elected with majority law, with minimal numerical majority present, in a terminal logic towards the elections and, therefore, more instrumental than anything else. And then two were the errors of merit. It was the combination of two opposing constitutional engineers: decentralisation and federalism together. The Bassanini laws were decentralized, which destructured the central state in the name of the myth of a positive modernity, inspired by the idea of the god market that was also to enter the temple of the State, and the results were seen. Then the internal systematic chaos was added to the relationship between the State and the Regions. Typical and symbolic, in this sense, is the contradiction in terms present in Title V, for which the infrastructures of national interest are of regional competence. This is how we have, then, had the double damage of the decomposition of the central state and an asymmetrical federalism. And also for this reason that Italy has been devastated, since then, in the global world. Today, unfortunately, we are still faced with similar errors, of merit and of method. The main argument against the Senate is that it is an obstacle and blocking factor in the legislative process. The fact that, in the meantime, there has been a radical change in the material constitution of the country, where the decree-laws prevail over the laws and the confidence on the decrees, rather than the exception, has become the rule. Find me an important measure that hasn't passed in 60 days. There is absolute and full statistical evidence of this in the data of recent years, but there is also political evidence: the consular absorption - and I use the elegant expression "consular" not to say Napoleonic - of the legislative function in the executive power. Incidentally, I quote the decree-law on the Colosseum: one wonders whether there is need and urgency for such a provision and it is assumed that it will gather confidence. I would point out that, if the reason for the measure is the protection of the country's image, perhaps an amendment could be aimed at avoiding the continuous announcements, in all languages, that thieves and pickpockets are present within the Colosseum. The other argument, that of the cost of the Senate, will become a boomerang because compared to the expectations of zero, will emerge data of however important cost. In this reform there is an absolutely good part and that, if it were isolated, I would vote with enormous interest and favor, and it is the part relating to the removal of the reasons for vertical conflicts for competences between State and Regions. But unfortunately, in addition to it, there is again the replica of the chaos between the competences that at this point, are no longer vertical between the State and the Regions. The most obvious risk is the conflict of overlapping of horizontal competences between the two branches of Parliament, between the House and the Senate, with the danger that there is no conflict between one branch and the other, but even the inertia of the one that would cause even greater damage than the contrast. As regards the deficit in the constitutional process, which I believe should be choral, I would just like to compare some of the elements of this debate with what has been said about the successive attempts to reform Title V by the last two Presidents of the Republic. Finally, there is one point that I believe is politically fundamental and it is the unpositive combination between constitutional reform and electoral reform: two parts of the same thing. It is said that electoral reform is structured to give the government the power to govern. The question is: to govern what? In order to govern normality there is always a constitutionalist who tells you about the English method that comes from "Homo ludens". The first pass the post, wins the first one that arrives after the pole, it's okay if it has to govern normality. The pretence that, although a minority in the country, becomes a majority in Parliament by law is not right, and that is the point on which I believe we should all seriously reflect, in the face of the times that we are living and that are coming. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups]] The financial crisis is not over, it is just suspended and it is combined with a geopolitical crisis of dramatic intensity. I believe that this is a case in which the law, the system, must be based on real political force and not on political force invented by law. I said all this not to change your intentions, but only to future memory. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut, CoR and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u108	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, before I come to the point, I would also call for the application of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, and I am not the first to do so. I wanted to speak on the last vote we had just voted on, and that is why I had previously asked to speak. However, we voted on amendment 1,732 for separate parts, because we voted on the first part - as you clearly indicated, and then it was also specified what the first part was - with all the consequences that this vote had. Last night, on the other hand, when it came to voting on Senator Paolo Romani's amendment, 1.44c, together with Senator Calderoli's amendment, 1.902, on which - particularly on 1.902 - you yourself had said, in judging the admissibility of the secret vote, that such a request was admissible limited to a certain part of the texts mentioned, you specified that it was mandatory to submit this judgment to the Chamber. And yesterday we treated him a long time, arguing that this is not the case, if anything, the opposite. The House voted and prevented us from voting for separate parts, denying every senator the guarantees that the Rules of Procedure provide for in the matter of the secrecy of the vote. This morning, however, it makes us vote on a separate amendment without asking for the vote of the House. I would like to understand the reason for such a difference. I then take this opportunity, since I have the floor, to reiterate my esteem and personal consideration for Senator Cociancich who has many qualities that I have had the opportunity to appreciate on the occasions when we found ourselves working together. I repeat, however, as a real estimate, that I do not reach the point of assigning to him the gifts of foresight, as President Lanzillotta has tried to do, giving him the opportunity to present on 17 September an amendment tabled on 23 September. For everything else, apart from foresight, I confirm my esteem.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u109	You know very well that the separate vote we have taken is aimed at the economic efficiency of the votes, because there are initial parts of amendments which are identical to those of subsequent amendments. That's the spirit of that split vote. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). What about the guarantee of the secret vote? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. On the other hand, with regard to the guarantees of the secret vote, i.e. the possibility of requesting a split vote, it was not I who did not allow the secret vote, but it was the House that voted against the possibility of a split vote. And you, that, you know very well. That's what happened, and that's the motivation. [[Senator Bulgarelli's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u112	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, just now Senator Petraglia had asked you a question that had already been raised by Senator Crimi, to which this House did not respond. Before concluding the explanations of vote, since they can be influenced by it, we must have an accurate knowledge of the effect that, on the other amendments, the possible adoption of the Cociancich amendment would entail. This is also because - as you know, having given the opportunity to vote on a number of subsequent amendments by secret ballot - it is clear to everyone that we absolutely need to understand the scope of the possible adoption of this amendment. I think it is absolutely necessary for you, before the explanations of vote continue, to be able to provide clarification to the House from this point of view. In addition, Mr President, with regard to the split vote to which Senator Malan has now referred to the amendments tabled by Senator Uras, in the heat of putting to the vote and perhaps not reflecting well, it has not been noticed that the amendments 1,732 and 1,735 were identical (I do not know why two have happened). At least when the texts are put to the vote, we are careful to take care of and verify the amendments themselves. Amendment 1,733 varied by two words, because there are no terms: local ones, but the other two were the same. Therefore, when we use measures to put separate party amendments to the vote, at least we take care of what is put to the vote. I renew this request, Mr President, because it is not possible and it has happened before. The House must be conscious and we ourselves, as authors of amendments (of those few who have survived), must know exactly what happens to them. We have understood that from the outset, but you must declare it before the vote and the final explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u113	I promised myself I'd do it, and you anticipated me. I can anticipate what I would have said before the vote. Are the explanations of vote over? DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I asked Senator Cervellini to intervene 20 minutes ago! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm sorry, but the request for Senator Cervellini, like those of other senators, didn't come to me, and I'm sorry. Senator, do you want the answer? DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I'm gonna make a sign now. We can't go on like this! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Unfortunately, I do not have the gift of being able to see the whole House at the same time. In the meantime, since I would have said so before the vote, as I usually do, as far as Senator Crimi's request has been made for some time now, since there have been several speeches on the order of business, I would like to say that Amendment 1,203, which is essentially the same as Amendment 1,205, if approved, precludes or renders any subsequent amendments to page 271 of the dossier absorbed or inadmissible. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). But you did not respond to my request on the voting order! [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] But you have based all your speeches on the fact that this amendment would preclude everyone else. We have been talking about this for two days and this has been the basis of the debate. So the wonder now manifested seems absolutely incomprehensible to me. AIROLA (M5S). Clever! CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Take out the paper with the signature, or else you're an accomplice!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u116	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that, if you say that the foreclosure includes amendments up to page 271 of the file, there is a mistake. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Precisely up to amendment 1,38342c. CRIMI (M5S). But that amendment was already inadmissible and, therefore, should not be precluded. PRESIDENT. - The debate is But before that there are many who are foreclosed by the adoption of amendment 1,203. Maybe I wasn't clear. If this amendment is adopted, all subsequent amendments up to page 271 are foreclosed, absorbed or inadmissible, and precisely until 1,38342c. CRIMI (M5S). So the page 272 ones are eligible? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, they are inadmissible as additional amendments. CRIMI (M5S). So let us say that all the amendments to Article 1 are inadmissible! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As you know, Senator Crimi, the article as a whole is voted on first and then the additional amendments are voted on. Those amendments, being additional, have been declared inadmissible. CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would just like to make it quite clear that Amendment 1,203 cuts off all subsequent amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That is what has been said several times. SANTANGELO (M5S). The guillotine! You put the guillotine on!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u119	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, this morning, when I spoke after Senator Calderoli, I made the request under Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure for a different voting order. I would like to have an answer to that. Perhaps you, as an internal corporis, decided that this order of vote should not be applied, but I did not have an answer. I asked for my amendment 1,607 to be voted before the Cociancich amendment, being a sub-amendment to that amendment. This is a request on a voting order and I do not have to declare anything else. It is you, Mr President, who must decide, in accordance with Rule 92, the order of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u120	The voting order remains the one that is already established and, therefore, we are now voting on Amendment 1,203. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I had an operation. I made a request. Apply Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure! The voting order. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What do you want to reverse? The voting order? The voting order, as you know, is already in place. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). You must ask by majority and opposition. Do I have to teach him? [[Applause from Senators Rizzotti and Quagliariello]] Senator Endrizzi asked for the floor in an explanation of vote, but Senator Centinario first. [[Brusio.]] I therefore ask the Secretary Senators and the Offices to be able to assist me in the requests for intervention, because they intertwine those for explanation of vote with those on the order of business. Senator Endrizzi, what do you want to intervene for? He has intervened several times already!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u121	Mr President, I asked for the floor, and I think it is now in the Minutes of the sitting, after a speech on the order of business. I told you: as far as explanations of vote are concerned, I expect you to tell me my turn. So you can't say that you haven't been helped in that regard. I understand the confusion, which is typical of those who feel some bite of consciousness, and doesn't have that hair on their stomach...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u122	You're referring to other people, who don't lack hair on the stomach.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u123	ENDRIZZI (M5S). No, she doesn't have enough to go through with it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite you to make your explanation of vote. [[Senator Volpi's comments.]] ENDRIZZI (M5S). The explanation of vote, Mr President, cannot be without the content of the debate, the violations of the rules, the misconceptions we have seen here. Even when I hear from the Minister that the Cociancich amendment and that of Senator Finocchiaro are coincident, we have a half truth and therefore, a great lie. Why? The Finocchiaro amendment intervened surgically on the text and thus allowed the possibility of it being integrated and improved. We would have voted on the Finocchiaro amendment, because, on the one hand, it recognized certain competences in the Senate... [[Senator Russo's comments.]] Yes, Russo, I understand that it is inconceivable for you to have a conscience and vote on the matter...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u124	Senator Endrizzi, speak to the presidency!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u125	[[Applause from the M5S Group]] AIROLA (M5S). Russo, don't make clown gestures! He's a kangaroo! ENDRIZZI (M5S). So, Mr President, we would have voted aware that then, at least, we could have proposed and presented improvements to a text that - I repeat what many have already said - will be part of the school texts. The Cociancich amendment, on the other hand, is a text which, in the field of trade, would be called abuse of a dominant position. It is an amendment which, in essence, is strongly supported by the fact that we do not have a rapporteur in this House, that the majority knows very well that they are voting in command on the government's diktats and, therefore, that there will be no help from heaven to allow, if nothing else, the proposals. The advance that we will continue to do so because it has not ended here. But what can we say about this amendment? Can we separate the contents which essentially coincide with the Finocchiaro amendment from the form that becomes preclusive of all the proposals contained in the dossier, including those admissible, which therefore made sense both in form and in content? We can't lend ourselves to this game. We will show otherwise that we are consistent with the proposal and we will also offer you, Mr President, a regulatory opportunity to get out of it. On this amendment, however, there has now been a very heavy tear and therefore we must reject it. In the absence of any truth about what we are voting on, we must refrain from participating in the vote. I'm sorry to see people around you, President, laughing while I'm talking and you yourself don't realize what I'm saying. I could go on, but I'll tell you what to do. Let's go to the vote and then we'll see.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u128	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I believe that we will have to put in place an effective system in order to be able to speak in this debate. We are going to vote against Amendment No 1,203, because the majority approach is being played with and made clear. Moreover, we are talking about a majority in Parliament, but a minority in the country, in the sense of polls and not of real and acquired votes when the parliamentary composition was established. With this amendment, this majority completes its parable, namely that of a constitutional reform that is proposed in a self-sufficient and extra-parliamentary way by a minority. Here the vulnus is created, because - I believe that no case studies can deny what I say - in no democratic country is approved the summa of the rules and regulations, that is the Constitution, with a minority that not only does not foreshadow the objective of achieving total sharing on the provision (or at least a wide, very wide sharing between the political and institutional guidelines of the real country), but relies on a law considered unconstitutional to be conferred the majority in Parliament, both the House and the Senate. This majority also relies on something else, now known also by public radio broadcasts. Take note of this, and extend also to some other transmission that still knows how to make satire the threats, made by some MPs of the Democratic Party, to enter RAI3 with the flamethrower. [[Applause from the Misto-AEcT Group]] It is said that the only thing that politics in Italy cannot be accused of is not paying attention to the phenomenon of migration. However, you base this reform on the attention not to the migration of the thousands of derelict people who try to escape hunger and war, but to the migration that politics in Italy is doing by opposition to the majority. I express my solidarity with Senator Cociancich for his loneliness and for putting his name and face on Amendment 1,203. He didn't even have any political solidarity around him. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] of these migrants who are going to the rescue and who are well received: warm blankets and kinds of comfort. This is the only reception that gives migrants politics. Think really, colleagues, because this is the first step towards a Constitution I do not say widely shared but shared by a minority, which will be approved by a minority, majority for a law deemed unconstitutional. This is done with self-sufficiency and the signature of a senator. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Vacciano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u131	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, I spoke a moment ago and asked you very kindly, with your usual calm tone, to consider whether you could give us half an hour. Mr President, I would like to renew that request, and I would ask you, however, to comment on my request: half an hour for democracy, Mr President. Do not tie his name to a sad page for republican history; do not tie his name to a story that ends miserably on the ridge of an asphyctic debate, which gives the country the devastation of the noble charter of the institutions of the State. Please, Mr President, allow half an hour, and allow, as Mrs Caliendo, Mr D'Alì and Mr Bonfrisco have asked, the possibility that oppositions will find minimal elements within the amendments for a shared solution that will restore Article 55 to the dignity of a debate and to a decent result at least; the one that is not accessing. President, don't tie your name to this ugly page: I beg you. [[Applause from Senator Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u132	We're in the process of voting, Senator. Any suspensions will be evaluated.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u135	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, I will be very quick. I would simply like to ask you to add the signatures of the whole Group to our President's amendments. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u138	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, Senator Calderoli first raised a question for us as an important League: that of signing. I do not want to go back to that, but we have been very clear about the signing speech, Mr President. This morning Senator Calderoli, on behalf of the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group, made a written request for a copy of amendment 1,203 at the first signature of Senator Cociancich. That copy never came to the Group's attention and I think you at least had to give us an answer. I cannot think, Mr President, that the answer is the one you gave in this House, namely that the signature is genuine until proven otherwise. The document is a public act, because here we are talking about an amendment to the Constitution; we are rewriting a part of the Constitution and we are not talking about something related to the secret services, President. As a result, being a public act, as such she had an institutional duty to show it to us. It wasn't like that. The answer was the one we heard and I am telling you honestly, Mr President, that this is not enough for us. It's not enough, because at this point we would have liked to see Senator Cociancich stand up and say, Yes, the signature is my signature. Instead, Senator Cociancich - whom I was hoping to see in this House at the moment: he had gone to sign, but perhaps now he has returned - did not get up and did not tell us: this signature is mine, I swear this signature is mine. "Giurin swears," as we say in Lombardy, eh, Senator Cociancich. But no: silence, in silence, a silence of grave. Silence of grave on his part, silence of grave on the part of his party; and the Presidency which, at this moment, tries to keep everything on track. We do not like this, because on the media we hear about the sale of senators, senators going from one side to the other, of ambiguous transhumance from the minority to the majority, of promises that are made under the table with regard to the Presidencies and Vice-Presidents of the Commissions. Some colleagues are told: If you vote for the reform and if you give us an extra vote, you will at least be taken into account by the pre-established power and by the ruler. I see that there is no Commissioner Lotti, not even now; it is not okay, you will tell him. We have heard about the scam amendments, we have heard - and then perhaps we will talk about them later - of veiled threats to the senators, to whom they say: If you don't vote for this constitutional reform, then Renzi puts it on his finger and doesn't go back to the future Parliament. So either the vote or the vote, my dear colleague; or present the amendment and pretend to sign it or maybe the niche next time is not there, my dear colleague. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami.]] So, Mr President, when we talk about constitutional reforms and there are situations like these in our country, we do not want to be accomplices, we do not want to be your accomplices, Mr President. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] And we cannot be your accomplices, because outside there is an electorate that expects from us clarity and clarity. And the clarity of the League is that it is not your accomplice and therefore not to participate in the vote on this amendment. You vote for an amendment signed by no one knows who. Vote for it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u139	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u141	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, on behalf of our Group, I declare that we will of course vote in favour of this amendment. And we do so knowingly, knowing that this article had to be rewritten and that rightly - as some colleagues have said - it will be the subject of the children's history books. We think we've done something right. I remind my colleagues that we are a force of opposition, so when you turn... [[Live comments from LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] The truth hurts. [[Senator Candiani's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u142	Senator Candiani, please, let's get this over with. We've been arguing since this morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u143	[[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] Mr Barani (AL-A). Hundreds, the tongue beats where the tooth pains. Your Salvini told you you don't stand up if you don't fight hard. [[Senator Centinario's comments. Senator Candiani shows a sign with the red inscription "Quaquaraquà".]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u144	Senator Barani, please don't accept provocations and complete your intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u145	Mr Barani (AL-A). Thank you, Mr President. We said we did it convincingly. Last year, in August, we already voted on the measure at first reading. And it makes us, of course, hear some colleagues say, when they call for the Cociancich amendment, that tomorrow we could call it "whites, "reds" or "greens," because those who have no memory cannot have a future. Those who say this do not remember that last year the finger was stretched upwards and not downwards. Rightly, therefore, not remembering what they did last year, Senator Malan, mirroring himself, was outraged at those who changed votes and turned to the conscience and did not understand it but was mirroring, because we consistently are here to give back a vote that we have already given last year and I remind you that many opposition forces are voting favorably. (Many Senators of the LN-Aut Group wave reproductions of US dollar banknotes.) I remind you that 40% of the members of the LAG Group are voting for this reform, as well as a dozen Senators from the Mixed Group. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm begging the assistants to step in. Senators Quaestors, please. Senator Commissioner Malan, please see you play your role as Commissioner. Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, let them do it: they show what they are. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bottici, it's also your job. Mr Barani (AL-A). They prove what they are. [[Protests from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u146	Senator Barani, talk to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u147	Mr Barani (AL-A). On the other hand, the tongue beats where the tooth pains. I'm doing a publication on an algorithmic political schizophrenia. Those who table 82 million amendments can't wave those tickets, can they? It's a shameful thing. [[Protests from the LN-Aut Group. Repeated comments from Senator Cioffi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u148	Complete your intervention, Senator Barani.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u149	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, after saying that, I cannot fail to remind this House of an amendment that we adopted last year: Senator Stefano Esposito's amendment 1,103, which led to the foreclosure of thousands of amendments in Italicum. Well, when I said that those who intervene with memory do not remember that also the friends of Forza Italia have voted that amendment and Senator Romani had the finger turned upwards, so you can not be indignant in alternate sense: either you are always outraged or you are never indignant. (Senator Centinario continues to wave the reproductions of banknotes.) You can't be indignant about opportunities. Having said that, Mr President, I want to close because they threw it, as they say, in a bitch. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u150	Let Senator Barani finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u151	[[Senator Caliendo's comments.]] Senator Caliendo, please. Mr Barani (AL-A). I, Mr President, do not know who this bully comes from and why it is brought to extremes in such an exaggerated way. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Barani has the right, like everyone else, to complete his speech. Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, on behalf of the whole Group - there are twelve of us today and there will be thirteen of us tomorrow morning - I bring you our solidarity. You are keeping this House well and all the insults that are being raised to you are offensives that do not deserve comments. [[Senator Candiani exhibits a sign bearing the red inscription "Quaquaraquà".]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u152	Senator Barani, finish your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u153	Mr Barani (AL-A). In short, this is the democracy that these gentlemen would like to bring to Italy and if they are afraid of a confirmation referendum that will prove that the country is with this reform, they are ashamed: they must stay at home. [[Comments from LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u154	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u155	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u156	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to speak in dissent from my Group, because there have also been harsh expressions about Senator Cociancich, which I regret. Senator Cocoancich is blameless and I would like to add a signature to the Cociancich amendment, namely the signature of the author, who is called Aquilanti and is the Secretary-General of the Presidency of the Council. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u157	Let's not introduce anything else, Senator Gasparri.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u158	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Adding the true signature, which is that of Aquilanti, Senator Cociancich is blameless. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] FINOCCHIAR (PD). I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u159	You have the right to do so. [[Brusio. Senator Taverna's comments.]] Colleagues, please be quiet! If anyone doesn't want to take the vote, just say so. I invite all my fellow senators to take their place. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Taverna]] I ask colleagues to free the center of the hemicycle: Senator Marcucci, Senator Nencini, please! I invite everyone to take their place. Senator Minzolini, please, ladies and gentlemen, if you are to discuss, you can leave the Chamber. [[Comments by Senators Marton, Montevecchi and Taverna.]] I have asked everyone to take their place or to leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u160	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am starting from what Mrs Lanzillotta has just said and I must take account of the invitation that Senator Paolo Romani has given me. I would first of all like to contextualize my explanation of vote, but above all the work of this House, which began a few days ago. We are facing a reform that has already had a double reading and we can therefore say that we act at the third reading, after a work that has unfolded, between the House and the Senate, for over a year and that has been fed, as we know, hundreds of hours of discussion and hundreds of hearings. Let us therefore be informed about what is within our work, so I think that no one can doubt that the legislative procedure is now geared towards concluding with the adoption of the legislative decision. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I say this above all, ladies and gentlemen, because it seems to me that the general debate (even in the Commission, but certainly with a more pronounced character in this House), the same phase of explanation of the amendments and - let me say this, Mr President - this procedural phase would also seem more appropriate and consistent, both in the disorder and in the liveliness that have marked them, to a first approach to the subject and not to a reflection made with "constituent spirit," as Senator Mucchetti would say, on a text that is already solidly outlined by the fact that both the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies have approved, at double reading, of the substantive parts. We therefore come to the subject of the Cociancich amendment, which reproduces exactly Amendment 1,205, which was signed by me and the majority of the group leaders, and which therefore finds the support of parliamentary groups which certainly represent the majority of this House. [[Senator Serra's comments.]] However, I would be frankly reluctant if I did not say two things: the first is that the content of the amendment is not the result of the creative fantasy of President Finocchiaro, shared by Senator Cociancich, but it is the result of the Commission's work and - as we shall see now - also by the amending activity, which translates views expressed by the parliamentary groups, what could constitute a common ground, in which we could all find ourselves, about what is, as Senator Paolo Romani said just now, one of the cornerstones of the reform. As everyone knows, in fact, the work of defining the functions of the Senate, both in the Commission and in the Assembly at the previous reading - so much so that we did not even respect the order of voting of the articles for this reason - was considered one of the cornerstones of the reform, keeping always and indispensablely united, in a single design, the fact that nature, functions and composition of the Senate should constitute a system as coherent as possible. The amending proposal for which I am voting in favour of my Group, Senator Cociancich's amendment 1,203 (identical to Amendment 1,205, tabled by Senators Finocchiaro, Schifani, Zeller, Zanda and D'Adda), brings together the debate that took place in the Commission; in particular, it comes out of that perimeter of amputation of the functions of the Senate, and therefore of reducing its role and its authority in the constitutional system, operated by the House, which has been the subject of many criticisms in the Commission. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let this be the case, and this text therefore corresponds to a desire to restore functions designed by a body with an autonomous role (as regards the functions of evaluation of public policies, public administration, the assessment of the impact of Community policies and decisions on territories), all the more important and incisive in that the exercise of these functions is a Senate which is not bound by the trust, this first reflection, i.e. to go back to an amputation carried out by the House, has unified the interventions of all the Groups in the Commission. So today I am not surprised, and I am sorry that this element has not been valued (except by Senator Endrizzi). I find that with regard to the summary of the functions that, by reforming the text of the Chamber, are reassigned to the Senate, the text is identical or almost identical to that of the amendments 1,605 of Senator Caliendo, 1.44c at the first signature of Senator Romani Paolo, 1,902 of Senator Calderoli, 1.2 and first signature of Senator Stefano, 1,731 at the first signature of Senator Campanella. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And I didn't get a chance to examine many others. Why do I say that? Because I'm afraid our argument is so poisoned by other matters... TAVERNA (M5S). From you! AIROLA (M5S). Ask yourself which ones! FINOCCHIAR (PD). As always, the debate has a political reason. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] I'll answer for myself. AIROLA (M5S). No! FINOCCHIAR (PD). I respond to what I am saying and to an amendment that I have tabled, with the signature of all the majority group leaders, after a work by the Commission which has been careful to listen to the criticisms, remarks and reflections that have come from colleagues from all the parliamentary groups and from the many constitutionalists we have heard. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] That's the point. AIROLA (M5S). It's too easy! FINOCCHIAR (PD). The rest is political instrumentality, foreign to that constituent spirit that many call for and should invoke it by associating it with the fact that the Commission of the 75 worked while the constituent Assembly, on the other side of the day, faced very hard political conflicts, but was able in the writing of the Constitution to regain the sense of common work, of extraordinarily important work. [[Extended applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Live comments from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). You could have been a rapporteur! FINOCCHIAR (PD). Now, I believe the Senate of the Republic... [[Live comments from Senators Taverna and Airola]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u161	Senator Taverna, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u162	Senator Airola, I'm calling you back to order. FINOCCHIAR (PD). Not always the loudest screamer is right. The Senate of the Republic - and I repeat, the Senate of the Republic, because on this point too comments have come from colleagues - in Article 114 of the Constitution, as it is written in Article 27 of the French Constitution, says that "The Republic is constituted by municipalities, metropolitan cities, regions and the State". Repeat, Senate of the Republic. This Senate of the Republic corresponds to the intention that the Senate already had at first reading: it restores the text with respect to the amputation that was done in the Chamber, and draws a Senate that has functions not only exclusive, but also particularly innovative. I am referring, for example, to the question of the evaluation of public administration policies, which is - look out - a recently but now soundly developed aspect, including scientific. It is a frontier of experimentation of the political capacity of a constitutional system in which an organ, which does not have the bond of trust, can indeed be the engine of an ability to assess how and how, in its impact, public policies produce positive results. This should be a function very dear to oppositions, not disdained but, in my opinion, valued. In the same way, the change of competences in this area, for example, in the impact assessment of European policies is particularly significant; we have been told by both the 14th and 14th Chamber and Senate Commissions; the Treaty of Lisbon had written this to us before and the reflections that have come on that Treaty and, among other things, it is a powerful engine of European integration. I wonder, then, how he wants to ignore its usefulness. That, then, is the reasoning I wanted to make. Of course, I have to say that other Members have differed: Mr Uras, for example, in one of his amendments keeps the text of the House. It seems to me particularly incomprehensible, in the report and in the speech between us, that on functions that could be so dear to those who consider the work of minorities as essential did not come then this suggestion, which was shared in the Commission. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think we can now vote in favour of this amendment. I am now speaking on behalf of my Group, but let me re-appropriate myself for a moment as President of the Commission. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] , because I am sure - and each of us, colleagues who have participated in the work of the Commission, is witness to this and the amendments tabled by the various groups are evidence of this - that the text we are voting on restores to the Senate its role and authority in the constitutional system that we are reforming. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), for the Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, Misto-IPI and Senator Orellana. Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u163	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u165	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, as they say, it is played and sung at this point. Rule 102 of our Rules of Procedure, Mr President, regulates the order in which the amendments must be put. In summary, we start from the completely deleted, then the replacement amendments, starting from what has a more distant content, and finally the amending ones. The offices do this job and you do it, Mr. President. The amendments are put in order to vote in this succession. When Mr Boschi gave his opinion on the amendments, he said that he was giving a favourable opinion on the amendment tabled by Senator Cociancich and, as it is essentially the same, on the amendment tabled by Senator Finocchiaro (I think I have rightly pointed out): this was also reiterated by President Finocchiaro himself. In the past few days, the President-in-Office of the Council, in one of his directions, has said that he would have called, in the event of the reopening of the debate on Article 2, Parliament in common sitting, something quite curious in parliamentary history. [[Ironic Comments from the PD Group]] But let Mr Boschi tell us that the amendments are identical when one is entirely replacing the paragraph and the other is amending, I am sorry but that is not possible. At this point, I would like to ask you a question, Mr President. Or the first amendment is entirely a replacement and therefore the amendment Finocchiaro is absorbed (one last scar, because after having prevented her from being the rapporteur they also make her disappear under the nose of the amendment) [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] ; or the amendment signed by Senator Cociancich is falsely a replacement, but it is actually a modification, so it must be voted in the end together with that of Senator Finocchiaro and the first is voted on all the other amendments. I await an answer from you, Mr President. Just as I would expect, for the esteem and friendship that bind us, from Senator Cociancich two words: "I have signed it," because until then I will continue to have the doubt. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u166	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,203. [[Protests from M5S and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). President. - I request that the Rules of Procedure be applied. You want us to get to the point of leaving the Chamber. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would remind you that, if approved, Amendment 1,203 precludes or absorbs all subsequent amendments up to page 271 of the dossier. Mr Barani (AL-A). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). President, this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure! You're violating the Rules of Procedure! I'm surprised others accept that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,203, tabled by Senators Cociancich and Rossi Luciano. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD Group. Protests from groups FI-PdL XVII, M5S and LN-Aut. Some Senators of the M5S Group put out a sign with the words: "Beautiful hello"]] Amendments 1,204 to 1,38342c are therefore precluded, absorbed, inadmissible or withdrawn. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). It's a shame!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u167	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u169	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, my speech is quite important. [[Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u170	Excuse me, there's a colleague of yours who's trying to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u171	CRIMI (M5S). Pursuant to Article 100, paragraph 5 of the Rules of the Senate, the undersigned Senators Crimi, Candiani, Divina, Centinario, Comaroli, Tosato, Volpi, Tremonti, Santangelo, Stefani, Crosio, Consiglio, Mauro, Morra, Martelli, Lucidi, Lezzi, Serra, Giarrusso, Mangili, Marton and Endrizzi present the following amendment, in relation to the one just approved, that I will deposit now. The signatures are all autographs, collected here, and the cameras can confirm that. (Senator Candiani has a mobile phone.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I beg Senator Candiani not to turn into a film operator. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). President, there are already cameras that will bring everything you are doing back to the outside: you are an accomplice to this scam. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You know you can't, Senator Candiani. [[Protests from M5S and LN-Aut Groups]] I ask the Senator, Mr Malan, to enforce the Rules of Procedure and order in this House. AIROLA (M5S). You be the president! CRIMI (M5S). At the same time, it is requested that this amendment be voted by secret ballot in accordance with Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. The amendment, which relates to the amendment that has just been adopted, provides that after the word 'competes' of amendment 1,203, the words 'paritally' shall be inserted in the matters referred to in Articles 29 and 32. I now put the amendment and the signatures. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Mr. President, the video!The video! The button! CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Another violation of the Rules of Procedure! President, I want this matter to go to the Rules of Procedure Committee! CRIMI (M5S). I recall that paragraph 5 of Article 100 reads as follows: It is therefore acceptable, without any doubt, to submit any further amendments during the sitting only if they are signed by eight senators and are signed by twenty-two and refer to other amendments tabled or are in conjunction with amendments already adopted by the Assembly. However, the President may allow, when appropriate, amendments to be tabled outside the cases referred to above, and this has been done on Article 2 in relation to Senator Finocchiaro's amendment and there is no doubt about it. This means, however, allowing amendments to be tabled outside the cases referred to above and that there is no assessment criterion on the cases referred to above, except on the substance of whether or not they are admissible. Furthermore, since the amendment - which you will be able to verify the text of - is the same as so many others declared admissible, since it introduces those words which have been declared admissible and on which the secret vote has even been granted limited to that sentence, it can no longer be said that the secret vote cannot be granted, because these are the words on which the Presidency has admitted only to that sentence, which is therefore deleted from all the rest. Mr President, I would therefore ask you to take this amendment, to have it printed and to proceed with the secret ballot, subject to explanations of vote, without any other assessment, because I repeat that paragraph 5 of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure provides for two conditions: that the amendment is tabled by eight senators and that it is in relation to an amendment that has just been approved. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] Since, as we all know, amendment 1,203 that has just been adopted is important and, in any case, completely alters and changes the text, since oppositions have no other opportunity to improve that text, the sense of this request is that compared to the text that has been adopted this amendment does not take away, but adds something, improves it. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups and Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u172	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u174	CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). Mr President, I would like to add the signatures of myself and Senator Bocchino. [[Senator Crimes' consent.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u175	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u177	ZIZA (CoR). Mr President, I would like to say that I voted against Amendment 1,203, but it seems to me that this vote has not been recorded. PRESDIENT. We take note of that. CIOFFI (M5S). Shall we vote, Mr President?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u178	The amendment that has been tabled is absolutely identical to amendment 1.1251c, which is foreclosed in relation to the vote that has just taken place, so this amendment is also to be regarded as being foreclosed. [[Senator Caliendo's comments.]] VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. No! CRIMI (M5S). Mr. President... By the way, it is your amendment, signed by you. CRIMI (M5S). Mr. President, I'm telling you... The video, connects the video... president. Let's go... [[Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u179	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u181	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, Senator Crimi has already pointed out this objection by saying that you have already put this text to the vote in Amendment 1,902. Therefore, this text has already been voted on here and is acceptable. Apart from that, we are intervening to amend an amendment that has already been tabled. Therefore, the matter on which action is taken is renewed and an amending space is created which did not exist before. The Cociancich amendment introduces an amending space that did not exist before. Mr President, this is the way forward, because in this situation, in this juniper, in this weakening of the credibility of the institutions, we cannot remain. We need to reopen the possibility of improving the amendment in this area: Cociancich or Finocchiaro that it is (we are quite clear that they are not the same thing) We are reporting the possibility of voting on the introduction, in the competing competences of Chamber and Senate, of voting on the subjects referred to in Articles 29 and 32 of the Constitution. If this amendment were accepted, we would introduce the possibility that both Chambers would decide on matters which should not be left to the availability of a controlled Chamber among the members of the same group. It is not possible to leave the provision of civil rights to a single House. This possibility would be precluded at the time when the debate was over. Under the regulatory terms the conditions for introducing this important and fundamental improvement are there. You cannot miss this opportunity we are offering you today. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u182	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u184	Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) Mr President, I would like to make some procedural comments on the requests of my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement. They refer to an article in the Rules of Procedure that we all know, in order to introduce a sub-amendment to an amendment already approved by the House in the debate and in the parliamentary dynamic. You will remember, and we all know, the parliamentary rules that, when voting starts, postulate the need for the sub-amendments of the main amendment to be voted on, precisely to prevent the possible vote of the main amendment from causing the sub-amendments to lapse, because they would be incompatible. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Schifani, you are anticipating my reply, but I thank you, given your experience as President of this House. Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) Thank you, Mr President. I have only a modest knowledge of the Rules of Procedure, but I am pleased that our answers are convergent. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] I would like to say to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement that this article they have mentioned could be seen as a passage in the event that, the following day or at the same time as the presentation in the Chamber of the Cociancich amendment, in the immediateness, before it was voted and discussed, this amendment could be invoked, submitted as a sub-amendment and voted before. [[Senator Caliendo's comments.]] Senator Caliendo, I'm working on procedural rules. I'm not going in on this. We have rules that have supported the life of this Senate properly and serenely for so many years. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). My request was legitimate! Call the Rules of Procedure Board! Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) I think I am not mistaken in remembering that these rules have allowed for an always correct legislative course. What you are referring to is a sub-amendment to an amendment which has already been adopted and which is therefore not included in the vote on the main amendment. ENDRIZZI (M5S). No, it's an amendment, not a sub-amendment! Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) The legislative technique we gave ourselves was always that: first we vote on the sub-amendments and then the main amendment. That is the truth, in my humble opinion, Mr President. I am pleased that you mentioned a convergence with your response, but of course I leave to the Presidency any assessment of the demands of the 5 Star Movement.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u185	After the vote on an amendment, it can no longer be considered a sub-amendment, which must be voted on first. That is how the Rules of Procedure are drawn up. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u186	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u187	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u188	CRIMI (M5S). You're violating the Rules of Procedure! The Rules of Procedure provide for the possibility for eight senators to table amendments - not sub-amendments by Senator Schifani - to read the Rules of Procedure you so well know! - refer to other amendments tabled or are in conjunction with amendments already adopted by the Assembly. The amendment we have tabled is intended to amend the text approved by this House and why is it not precluded? Because what you forbade, perhaps correctly - I say perhaps - was the amendment to a text that today, with the Cociancich amendment, has been amended. The amendment we are tabling is therefore on a different text, a new text in the text which is not the one on which you first insisted on amendment 1.1251c. It is an amendment to a new text and therefore cannot assimilate it to that and, because it is the same, automatically declaring it foreclosed. I am telling you that, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, eight senators can ask you to submit, on the contrary they are presenting - it is not even written that it should be declared admissible - an amendment in conjunction with amendments approved by the House and President that cannot be denied. President, this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure that you are doing. Forcing has done so many, this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure is no longer a coercion! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is a violation of the Rules of Procedure and the rights of opposition. This is what you are doing: bend the Regulations to the will of the majority! But remember that when you bend the Regulations to the will of the majority, democracy is over. It's over and you've done it every time, on every fundamental law! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That's what you're approving is mothballs to keep you alive, that's what you're approving with the reform of the Constitution! Instead of thinking about the issues of citizens, citizenship income, small businesses, think about keeping alive with this mothball that is the reform of the Constitution, because otherwise you are finished! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u189	I agree with you that the Regulations, and there are so many projects that your Group has also submitted concerning amendments to the Rules of Procedure, must certainly be updated and amended. There's no doubt about that. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] MARTON (M5S). You just have to apply it, that's all you have to do! You have to apply what's now! AIROLA (M5S). You have to apply it! Did you read it or not? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I therefore agree that the Regulations should be updated and applied as well, but this is the one in force when we are at the moment. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u190	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u191	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u192	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Yes, but it is you, Mr President, who do not call the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, so this speech is worth little! [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, you must be impartial! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Caliendo, don't get so upset! CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, you must be impartial! You must be impartial with those who have asked for the floor! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't get so upset, check it out! [[Senator Caliendo's comments.]] I'm surprised you don't control yourself. Senator De Petris has had the floor. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, if it were true the interpretation that you give, there would have been no need, in Rule 100, to regulate the procedure so precisely - and that you photograph, among other things, the case in which we are - in such a way. Paragraph 5 of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure clearly governs it. You say that it is a paragraph that did not apply very much, but it is in our Rules of Procedure and why does the Rules of Procedure provide for eight senators to table further amendments? Is it not by chance that it mentions amendments relating to amendments tabled or even already adopted? Because it is precisely the situation in which we have come to find ourselves: with the trick you have made the whole dossier disappear and the amendment approved has changed, replacing it totally, Article 1. Many of us had tabled numerous amendments to ensure that there was an equal competence between the Senate and the House of Deputies, for example, on matters relating to the right to information - a very topical issue, as we can see at this time! - or rights relating to the freedom of persons. It is clear to everyone that, following the adoption of the amendment, we should have the possibility - for this reason paragraph 5 exists - to table some amendments to include the forecast in the approved text - this would be a serious discussion on the functions of the Senate - of competences on certain fundamental rights concerning civil liberties and information. Paragraph 5 provides precisely for this possibility, because it refers to amendments adopted. This was written when the Esposito on duty, who now has much to do to finish ruining the life of the Roman citizens... [[Comments from the PD Group. Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, M5S and LN-Aut]] Now they have found another: look at the rest of the measure, because in Article 21 there is another amendment of the same scope as that of Senator Cociancich. As you can see, the trick repeats itself. Some of the perpetrators of the scams have also dared to go and pay tribute to Pietro Ingrao and should be ashamed because they are tearing everything he has fought for. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]] This paragraph 5 was inserted when it was not thought that the dialectic in this House would be reduced and humiliated by scams and tricks. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and M5S]] AIROLA (M5S). You want this vote, too? You are not so strong, you also need this further humiliation! Let's do it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I've already given my answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u193	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u195	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to add to what was said earlier at the sitting on Wednesday 28 January 2014, chaired by President Grasso. Are you hearing me, ma'am? Or are you listening to suggestions on how to screw our amendments? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] AIROLA (M5S). Bravo! MARTELLI (M5S). That should not be the purpose for which people are at the table of the Presidency, because they should be there to help you interpret the Rules of Procedure and not to allow it to be distorted for the use and consumption of the majority. Is that clear enough? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Are you listening to me? I see you're very busy listening to others. I see other suggestion sheets coming in. Can we see them too? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you want to know what they are, they are papers to greet the people who are attending our work in the stands. [[Live comments from the M5S Group]] AIROLA (M5S). Shame on you! MARTELLI (M5S). At your meeting on Tuesday 28 January 2014, you, President Grasso, said that it is possible to subservientize amendments by anyone, that is, tabled by anyone, not only by the Government and rapporteur. These are your words and it is a precedent that you cannot ignore. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Bignami and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u196	In fact, I accepted the submission of sub-amendments to Article 2. [[Live comments from the M5S Group]] The deadline for submitting sub-amendments to the amendments to Article 1 has not been considered valid. The submission of amendments and sub-amendments has a discipline.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u197	I address a greeting to the ambassadors of the Renaissance of the Municipality of Casal di Principe. They are young people who are committed to crime and I thank them. We know that Casal di Principe is an area that requires the commitment of the citizens and therefore we thank you for what you do. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u198	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u199	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u200	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I apologise if I raised my voice earlier; I am not mad at you. I sometimes fight for the respect I owe to this Parliament, and the battle is for the application of the Rules of Procedure. This morning I asked you to put to the vote the amendment I tabled, on 1,607, before the Cociancich amendment. It could even be a sub-amendment that could be accepted by Senator Cociancich. You said that you agree with President Schifani, who said that this could be the solution that had to be found. I did not ask you for anything; I only asked you to apply Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure: in order to reverse the voting order you should have heard a speaker against and one in favour, so we were voting. He didn't do anything. He didn't make any decisions. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups]] With regard to this new amendment, you cannot say that it has already been tabled. If paragraph 5 of Rule 100 permits the submission of further amendments if they are signed by eight senators - I have not signed it - we have to apply the Rules of Procedure, and I do not believe that there can be any divisions on this. The guarantee for all is the Regulation and if we violate it [[Applause from Senators Marin and Ceroni]] We have situations that are no longer manageable. In the absence of the Board for the Rules of Procedure, the only person who can guarantee an impartial application of the Rules of Procedure is you, President, and impartiality should lead you to read paragraph 5 of Rule 100, also on the basis of your experience of over forty years of judiciary. Eight senators can now table amendments in addition to amendments already adopted, provided in correlation, even if this wording incorporates a text of amendments already foreclosed. It's got nothing to do with it. You just have to consider whether or not there is any correlation with the amendment that has been adopted. You see, President, the one who speaks to you is not an opposition senator. I am making this speech because, as I have said, it is sacred to me to respect the Rules of Procedure, because it is respect for the dignity of Parliament, for the equality of all of us, regardless of the position we are in today. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Today we have witnessed a series of violations, perhaps the result of inattentiveness. You did not want to understand my request; try to check in the report: I had asked for my amendment to be voted before the Cociancich amendment. However, we cannot go on in this way, that every time we turn to the other side and we do not even see if there is a request for intervention. I would ask you to ensure impartiality, which is not only a matter of respect between the majority and the opposition, but of correct application of the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and CoR groups and Senators Pepe and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u201	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u202	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u203	IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, I would like to have a little of your certainty and also of your sycumera in managing this House. However, for studies, from Augustine to Descartes, I have always guided the doubt a little, and now I am asking you a question, precisely because frankly I do not believe that the work of a Member of Parliament should be debased, because I, as a Member of Parliament, should be more inclined to believe the suggestions that come to you from the usual offices of the secretariat, and instead I must not have the opportunity to understand, at a time like this, that the junta for the Rules of Procedure should not be summoned to discern if it is correct the interpretation that comes from your offices or if the requests that Senator Crimi has brought to the Chamber are correct. I would ask you, therefore, if it would be possible to settle this conflict within the place in charge, namely the Council for the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Bignami and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u204	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u205	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u206	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, I would like to make it clear to my colleagues that the interpretation they give of paragraph 5 of Article 100 is certainly correct. There is the possibility, provided for in the Rules of Procedure, of tabling an amendment by at least eight senators which is related to an amendment that has already been adopted, and - Senator Caliendo is right - the Presidency must confine itself to discreetly assessing the profile of the correlation between the amendment that is being tabled and the amendment that has already been adopted. But that is not the point, because, if that were the point, I would agree with colleagues who do this correct and authentic interpretation of Article 100 and I would also agree with Caliendo. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Devil's lawyer! FALANGA (AL-A). The problem that is left out, and which represents the main rock that does not allow this sub-amendment to be put to the vote (which re-introduces among the competences of the Senate the matters referred to in Articles 29 and 32 of the Constitution), is that yesterday we have already assessed and discussed in depth on this resolution, which this Senate has rejected, rejecting Senator Paolo Romani's amendment 1.44c. Another final comment on the request for a secret vote. You see, Mr President, yesterday in my speech I merely supported your decision to vote for separate parts, and therefore, in the absence of a separate vote, to exclude the secret vote on a complex amendment, which included within it matters relating to the ordinary and matters relating to Articles 29 and 32 of the Constitution. I merely comforted this thesis, saying that it was correct in order to avoid that drag effect that Senator Finocchiaro had spoken of. But I have failed - and I am doing so right now - to make another point of merit. You see, Mr President, the Constitution provides for the possibility of requesting a secret vote when it comes to matters relating to health (Article 32) or family (Article 29). But at this moment, in our examination, is there a law that regulates or goes to intervene on the matters referred to in Articles 29 and 32? I don't think so. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] It is only when legal measures are assessed on those specific matters that the possibility of secret voting is allowed upon request, not when the Constitution is being amended and only because Articles 29 and 32 are indicated in the context of constitutional reform. So, Mr President, apart from the correct reasons you gave yesterday in support of your decision to deny the secret vote on the so-called complex amendment, which includes two provisions on different subjects (including those referred to in Articles 29 and 32), I would also add a point of substance, which prevents the request for a secret vote when we are not talking exclusively about the subjects referred to in Articles 29 and 32. This is the modest contribution I felt to make to this House this morning. [[Applause from Senator Barani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u207	This is something which should be taken into account when amending the Regulations or the Constitution on this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u208	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u209	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u210	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, you certainly do not need my help. But I know that a matter like the one we're debating right now isn't entirely up to you. What you do not say, Mr President, because of your form of respect for the House and the Senate in general, is that that Rule of the Rules of Procedure says exactly what colleagues have asked for by signing that request for a vote on a new amendment, which can be tabled once another text is voted, if there is a correlation. So much so that I, on yesterday's day, Mr President, submitted to you ten requests for the vote for new amendments which I intended to table to the House, and also on Rule 2, I felt that I should hand over amendments which, if signed by eight senators, could be tabled, if possible before the beginning of the sitting, to enable the Offices to evaluate and catalogue them. I therefore repeat to you that there is not much escape in the interpretation of paragraph 5 of Article 100: that is the case, point. Our grave fault is that we have never done anything to retouch, modify, evolve a Regulation even when a practice like this - because that is the answer that the Offices have given me correctly - is desuete, so to speak, because everything is organized over the years - many years - to make sure that we know the end of the amendment before we get to this House. That is the truth, but you cannot fail to acknowledge that you do not intend to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure as we asked you to do this morning: you do not intend to do so because of political considerations, when, instead, in that context - called the Committee on the Rules of Procedure - political considerations should follow up on other considerations; those which referred to Senator Caliendo, for example, or those which have also referred to other Members who have spoken on this issue. I therefore know that it is up to you today to have to settle this matter, and it does so without any responsibility for a job that has to be done before and that has not been done. Today, however, we are in this condition and because we are not amending any decree or draft law, but the Constitutional Charter, I think that we can and should, while understanding that time has changed practice and regulations, accept a request from the opposition in this sense, unless we are so afraid of a vote that we also have the slightest trace of rules and regulations that I believe we all try to respect.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u211	I am pleased that you have referred to all the problems of the application of the current Rules of Procedure, which, as I said before, many of us hope will be amended. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u212	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u213	You have the floor, even if you have already spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u214	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Senator Falanga is a well-known lawyer, but when a well-known lawyer takes on an impossible cause, he may also be contradicted by a beginner like me. The Senator argues that we are not discussing a measure on health or civil rights, but if so, then the secret vote should be excluded from the debate on the Constitution - while a precedent we had in the first reading, right here in this House - and certainly in this way we would have streamlined the work very much (and that is what the PD fears, because he says he has the numbers but maybe he does not, by compressing the truth to hide the reality of the facts). It's dangerous to climb on mirrors with nails, because ruining mirrors is bad, and I'm telling him that. I say to you, Mr President, that there is no room here to figure this out, unless we want to give Senator Falanga or Senator Schifani the role of a monocratic judge to replace the junta for the Rules of Procedure. There's no way out of this, except a straight, straight road. Someone will observe - perhaps Senator Zanda will - that for the examination of an article it has already been two days. If, however, the legitimate demands of the minority had been accepted, with a mountain of amendments already mowed down, through inadmissibility, how much more slender would our path have been? If we had not had a wall, a wall of rubber, almost the same consistency as the batons. [[Comments of the PD Group]] opposed to legitimate demands, we would have already concluded the examination and the citizens today would know what the new wording of at least Article 55 of the Constitution would have been. This is indeed a provocative obstructionism of the majority, which leads us to raise our tones, asking for truth and justice. However, this is contrary to what they claim to be intents, i.e. to have a streamlined procedure. Once again there is hypocrisy: by intervening in the Regulations we could have guaranteed more fluid paths, but as long as we continue to prevent the Junta from speaking and starting that work that we have been asking for for years on the Regulations, we are simply building a pretext to intervene as we have seen so far. Mr President, they say to me, "Do you still want to talk?" One of his words and all this resolves. [[Applause from Senator Moronese.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u215	I have already spoken and I have made my decision on this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u216	MARTON (M5S). Put it to the vote and then they flunk it: what's the problem?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u217	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u218	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u219	Senator Volpi, would you like to speak for an explanation of vote on Article 1? VOLPI (LN-Aut). No, Mr President, for a statement on you. I regret to say this, but you are showing that you are absolutely inadequate as President of this House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u220	Thank you for your opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u221	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u222	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u223	BOCCHINO (Misto-AEcT). Mr President, I too want to speak on the debate on your decision. I would like to make it quite clear to you that you are intervening by restricting the ability of eight senators to table an amendment pursuant to paragraph 5 of Rule 100. If this is true and if the interpretation in question is correct, I believe that the following words should be added to paragraph 5 of Article 100: [[Comments of Senator Tonini]] Since this sentence is missing from Article 100 (5) I would stress that the ratio of the paragraph is that no limitation can be placed on the eight senators, who can intervene precisely on amendments that are not covered by the fact that they are substitutes. Among other things, if the phrase I have just said were present, this provision would be in line with Rule 102, which provides that the replacement amendments must be voted before all the others. However, since this sentence does not exist, the ratio of Article 100 (5) is that there must be no limitation. Therefore, with your decision, Mr President, which is not an interpretation, you are violating the Rules of Procedure and the ratio underlying Rule 100 (5) of the Rules of Procedure. Then amend the Rules of Procedure first and then make this decision. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u224	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u225	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u226	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we are going to vote against Article 1 and I will say it literally and punctually because we are going to do it, as compared to what was done at first reading, but let me reiterate some of the considerations which then all result in politics. Mr President, you are under a series of pressure, against which we cannot from the point of view of the debate but to be in solidarity with you, in the absolute deafening silence of the majority. I wonder what political assessment can be made of this, and I wonder why she should be subjected to it without any kind of support. We asked yesterday morning, after having seen the huge number of amendments (including those accepted), for a short period of time for the submission of the sub-amendments, which were granted only in Article 2 and not in Article 1, with a differentiated and unintelligible assessment because, after all, as you yourself said, it would have been a half-hour suspension, which perhaps would have saved much more time in the debate in this House. Then we also asked for the amendments by Senators Cociancich and Finocchiaro to be discussed at the end of the examination of all the other amendments, which could be done. I requested that I repeat to you, and you were forced to reply that there had been no response, except a deafening silence from the majority (so still silence). Then an amendment was requested, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but it has still been said 'no', which is still absolutely silent. The whole debate was marked by requests to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on the various disputes, and you were forced not to say anything about this, but neither did the majority. In the end, we have also heard arguments made by Senator Finocchiaro, correctly from the point of view of the contents, but confessing from the political point of view a clear difficulty within the majority, so now it is the majority that delays the approval process of this reform, because the changes that are made to the text coming from the House are proposed by the majority, clear sign that the majority in the Senate itself has difficulties. All these signs of great difficulty of the majority lead us to think that we want to proceed in absolute contempt of a constructive dialectic that instead we would have wanted to implant, propose and carry on. If there had been any change, even through secret votes (obviously, the majority has no certainty about its keeping in this case), what injury to popular law would there have been to have a text of the Constitution however modified by the will of the majority of parliamentarians? Actually, that's hard for me. Understand that. But let us come to the text of Article 1. We on Article 1, I repeat, note and record a number of definitions, between the text originally proposed by the Government, that of the Senate Commission, that approved by the Senate Chamber, the amendments of the Chamber of Deputies, which cannot lead us to a favourable vote. This is because we believed that the text that came out of the Commission and the Senate Chamber for the first time was already the result of an overall compromise between the political forces of a debate that was to be transferred to the other branch of Parliament, where we know that the majority relations and the composition of the same are completely different by virtue of the electoral results and a majority prize already judged unconstitutional by the Council. The amendments are substantial, such as the elimination of the words "paritally" in the matters referred to in the second paragraph of 29 and 32, and the modification of the exercise of the functions of liaison with the European Union, which become a simple competition for this exercise (the Senate was given a specific task of exercising these functions, which instead was watered down in a task that could involve - it is not said - other institutions of the State). Just as the assessment of the impact of EU rules is limited, if we read the text well, only to the impact between the territorial authorities of the European Union. All these changes, therefore, are substantial, they are not insignificant, as President Finocchiaro, clearly arguing for himself, has tried to make us understand. They are fundamental changes, which overwhelm the agreements reached at the time on a text shared between majority and opposition and relegate this text to an exclusive will of an elected majority with a system that does not respect the proportionality of the will of the Italian voters and that, therefore, as I have repeatedly tried to say, is not a majority that can legitimately modify in such a broad and completed way the Constitution. There is much more to be done to do this, but we have already discussed this by trying unnecessarily to have the consent of our colleagues. That is why we will vote against Article 1, stressing that the amendment of Article 1, as has already been done, brings this constitutional law back to the status of first reading in the Senate and imposes a second reading on the House, a third reading in the Senate and yet a fourth reading in the House, by the express will of the majority. Let us not say that the opposition is delaying the approval of the reform. It would have been much more elegant to allow the debate these days, rather than choke it, as we have done in the timetable of the measure as a whole and as has been done in the evaluation of individual amendments. I repeat, if this morning, at the beginning of the sitting, we had accepted our proposal to consider from the outset as sub-amendments or, in any case, as amendments to be examined on the Finocchiaro-Cociancich text our proposals, we would have already exhausted them in time and would have wiped out the controversy. Perhaps some further changes would have been approved; but what is the vulnus to the process of this provision some further changes coming from the opposition benches and finding the consent of one party, if not of the whole majority? There is no vulnus in iter, because however this will be the first deliberation. I believe, however, that these forcings must cause the majority to worry much more than it can cause the realization of a secret vote to worry. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u227	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u228	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u229	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I rise to declare the vote against the component of the Mixed Left Group, Ecology and Freedom in Article 1, as we have already done in previous readings in the Senate and the House. Of course, we reiterate the profoundly negative view of the reform as a whole and, specifically, of Article 1. I am not tired of saying what we have been saying since the first minute of this debate, almost two years now. There would have been many ways to seriously overcome the perfect bicameralism, also because on this issue there was the unanimity of Parliament, moreover, supported by ancient, historical research, rooted also in the best Italian constitutionalism. Hence, even on the part of the opposition there would have been all the good will to put such a reasoning in place. The point, however, is that to overcome the perfect bicameralism there were different ways and you chose the worst way: you preferred propaganda to serious analysis and the result of this masterpiece and this messy reform, incomprehensible in many respects, confused, I think even dangerous in many respects, is that instead of creating the second Chamber - what would be needed, what is written in the constitutional law manuals when it comes to overcoming the perfect bicameralism - you have created a secondary Chamber, which will serve little or nothing and which, moreover, will probably also conflict with the same Regions that you say you want to represent. To the Regions in fact you subtract power with a mechanism that reminds much of the past seasons, those of the so-called centralism (in fact what you propose is a sort of neocentralism) even with the risk that elements of conflict will be determined. You have built what will be the second House by attributing very debased powers to it. Just see the verbs that are written in the formulation: it competes, participates, currency; it is not by chance the verb "decide" is never there. It is not true, however, that in overcoming the perfect bicameralism the verb "decide" is eliminated; it eliminates the fact that the second Chamber gives confidence to the Government and precisely on this point there was agreement. On the other hand, there had to be much more rigour and seriousness in understanding together (in this sense yes, with a constituent spirit) what the functions of the new Senate would be and how it would become what would serve our country, that is, an element that went to intercept that profound crisis of the population towards politics, that distrust of the population towards politics that should be, as I have said a thousand times in this House in all these months, our real great assailance. However, ladies and gentlemen, the debate is spoiled. One of the two constituent Fathers, the President of the Council Matteo Renzi (the other we have known in these days and is called Verdini, is the Renzi-Verdini reform that we are discussing in these hours), at the beginning of the debate on this constitutional reform on television, in front of the objections of those who tried to say that perhaps it was not exactly correct the thing he was saying, that perhaps the country would have been useful to do this rather than this one, he hurled himself against the owls, the professors, claiming that this would cut 300 salaries. Obviously this closed the dialogue possible and the easiest way was chosen, that of propaganda. That is how you set this constitutional reform. When the President of the Council motivates her, not that this constitutional reform will improve the country, but to cut 300 salaries, she makes an operation probably effective from the point of view of consensus in a very trivial and simple way: she speaks directly to the belly. Imagine what's easier than this: in times of crisis tell that you cut 300 salaries to the hated political class of this country. Obviously this is a reason for easy consent, but it leads to a devastating operation from the cultural point of view, it puts in place precisely that demagogy from above that does not serve this country, it renounces the fundamental role that politics should have had when making a constitutional reform. When the Constitution is reformed, politics should have the great task, not to go banally behind the common feeling by speaking to the belly of the country, but to play a leading role; and you have completely renounced this. Of course, you will approve Article 1 and also the reform and with this propaganda you will probably win the referendum, but it is not obvious. In fact, when we explain to the country what is behind this referendum that will be done, what is the political majority that has determined it, what are the votes (even the determining ones) that will serve to bring it home, it is not obvious that you will win the referendum, because the committees of the no will have months to work and to explain how much propaganda there is behind this so-called constitutional reform. In any case, with that approach that you have put in place you have completely renounced to play the role that instead parliamentarians of the Republic should never forget, that is exactly not to go behind the simplest opinion and not simply to use the tools of demagogy and propaganda. And instead you decided to do this surgery. You did so from the first moment, when you rejected the dialogue, and you did so even now when, precisely, with a little game, with a little parliamentary trick, you did not simply prevent the so-called obstructionist amendments from being discussed, you did not just take away the 85 million amendments, but you took advantage, perhaps also of a lightness, of this mechanism to remove all the amendments. The result is that this constitutional reform, not only will you vote for it alone, in the sense that you will vote for it by majority when, in fact, constitutional reform deserves as much effort as possible from the Chambers and as broad a consensus as possible with the involvement of oppositions. But, precisely, put in place a mechanism that shows exactly that you have made a precise choice of field. You did not want to carry out a reform useful to the country. You wanted to pursue the wrong terrain from a cultural point of view by bringing damage that will not only affect the months but, unfortunately, also in the decades to come. Constitutions are not electoral laws and are not ordinary. They don't change every year. A Constitution can last fifty, sixty or seventy years. Some of our authoritative Minister has even said that the reform of the Constitution has been expected for seventy years, perhaps by making some date mistakes. But it is true that the decades and stages in which the Constitutions last are not measured in terms of days or months, but measured in terms of years. This means that this House, this Senate, should have had a completely different capacity to fully understand what were and what are the great open questions of our time, how could a constitutional reform be put in place that actually spoke to the elements of political crisis and the elements of separation that intervene today in the dialectic between representatives and representatives. I am sorry to say this, but these words clearly mean little in this House. There was a lot of propaganda in this House and there was a lot of demagogy. And then, propaganda propaganda, we'll set up committees for no. Maybe we will lose in the vote in Parliament, but I am convinced that the referendum will play it to the full when we thoroughly oppose the Renzi-Verdini reform. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Groups and Senators Bignami, Bell and Casaletto.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u230	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u231	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u232	Mr Bruni (CoR). Mr President, before I speak in an explanation of vote on Article 1, I would just like to make one comment. You wanted to stress that you have left room for everyone to express yourself. We all take note of this, but we would also expect some decisions of different sign. In fact, there is no request from the opposition that the Presidency should be able to accept. And there are never any reasons to convince us of his unilateral and univocal decisions. Having said that, the vote of the Conservatives and Reformists on Article 1 will be negative, for some considerations of merit that we have already done with other colleagues also on the individual amendments. I want to repeat a few. We had tried to amend and change article 1, not only bringing it back to what was the text and the content of the first reading, which was certainly better than the one that came out of the House, but also enriching it with some references definitely relevant. Among these, there was the proposal to give greater value to the Senate as regards the evaluation and implementation of EU policies. If this task had been further enriched, it would have been easier for the Italian system, politics and the Italian Parliament to accept and confront the European directives, sometimes lived as real diktat. In fact, the European directives have been statistically calculated to affect 70% of our standards. This could have prevented a crisis of rejection of the European Union and could also have led to the most extreme cases, such as those in other European countries, of confirmation referendums which then, often, overturn the agreements covered by the European Treaties. Enriching the functions of the Senate with a few more references to the policies and decisions of the European Union would not have been wrong, while in the amendment last approved there is no such thing; there is only one very general reference. With the amendments to Article 1, we also tried to introduce, as we said, the tax ceiling. Obviously the tax ceiling would not have been established in the Constitution, but in the Constitution the Senate was given the power to verify the level of fiscal pressure and safeguard, linking it to the important function, this is important and underlined also by President Finocchiaro, to evaluate public policies, the activity and the action of the public administration. Connecting to this function the possibility for the Senate to verify the level of tax pressure, which cannot be quantified only from the center, but must keep together the decisions and policies of all the institutions that have the possibility to use the tax lever, therefore especially the Regions and the Municipalities. It would have been a significant novelty, which not only would have given more enamel to the role of the Senate, but would have affected the balance important for the everyday life of the citizen. Equally relevant would have been the reference to Articles 32 and 29 of the Constitution introduced at first reading. The various amendments tabled not only by our Group, but also by many other groups in this House, have also not been considered, and that is certainly another reason why we do not vote in favour of the adoption of Article 1. Finally, I would like to point out that we had tried, within the limits of the objective difficulties of linking ourselves to the changes made at second reading, trying to do a work technically, from the legal point of view, as clean and precise as possible, to introduce the concept of the infrastructural equalization, which is not merely a re-edition of policies for the South or the Cassa per il Mezzogiorno d'antan. It was a way to pose the problem of how to keep undeveloped areas of our national territory together with more fortunate areas and with numbers and fundamentals in better economy. If we had written it in the Constitution and assigned it to the competences of the Senate it would have been a great novelty from the legal point of view and would certainly have produced important economic results. Today this does not happen and at the same time we hear the Chamber of Deputies discussing improbable bridges to connect Sicily to Calabria or in audition, always to the Chamber, we hear from the Managing Director of Ferrovie dello Stato that finding a million euros to bring the Frecciarossa from Bari to Lecce is an impossible mission. So then the infrastructure equalization written and implemented in a serious way would solve a whole series of unresolved problems that are on the table of the national government and that will produce an increasing meltdown between economically different areas of our national territory. The amendment on this subject has also been declared inadmissible, which makes it even more difficult for us not to vote in favour of Article 1, as rewritten because of the few amendments adopted between yesterday and today. For these reasons, I am voting against Article 1 of the Conservative and Reformist Group. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u233	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u234	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u235	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, pursuant to Article 79 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the 5 Star Movement Group makes its own the bill n. 2024 on the prohibition of advertising gambling. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We take note of all the resulting regulatory effects.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u236	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u237	You have the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u238	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask you whether Rule 100 (5) of the Senate Rules still exists. In two and a half years you have never assumed a great responsibility. Today he did not ask Senator Cociancich if the signature of amendment 1,203 was autographed or not and did not check the heavy statement made in the Chamber by Vice-President Gasparri regarding a signature made by an official. You also did not pay attention, as you promised, to Vice President Gasparri's statements on the sale. Mr President, we are talking about constitutional reforms. As a matter of fact, citizens had to go to the prosecutor's office, and I think you should have done it, President. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] We have not assumed the responsibility of bringing together the Council for the Rules of Procedure - if this is not dictatorship - and we all know the reason: in the Council for the Rules of Procedure the Democratic Party is in the minority, including Verdini. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] As a matter of fact, you take on a responsibility today. We, humble citizens, had given her a way out. Mr Crimi had offered her a beautiful way out: to respect the Rules of Procedure. Today we can use the pages of the Senate Rules - indeed, they can do so because they often do so - to make us the ball to vote. Mr President, I would like to ask you whether paragraph 5 of Rule 100 of our Rules of Procedure still exists. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u239	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u240	The explanation of vote has just been made by Senator Castaldi. He said he made an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u241	CASTALDI (M5S). No, you're not! [[Live Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u242	Senator Castaldi spoke on another subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u243	Please, Senator Crimes, you have the floor. Please stick to the explanation of vote. CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, by voting today on Article 1 of the measure, democracy in this country is being demolished. You had only one goal in your head, which is that of the President-in-Office of the Council. I turn to Minister Boschi, because he is the interlocutor of all this, unlike those who are here just to press buttons, silent and silent. Your goal was to be populists. You have accused us of populism and told us that we are populists, but the populism of the President-in-Office of the Council has surpassed all. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The aim of the President of the Council was to eliminate 300 salaries. We proposed to him to cut 450 and he said no. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We proposed to halve the composition of the House and Senate and you have no. We have proposed that the salaries of all thousands of Members be halved and you have said no. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]] This is because your goal was not to save money, because there will be no savings - and I explain why - but only to kill one of the two chambers; to kill one of those instruments that was introduced by the constituent Fathers to ensure that that dark period of fascism did not return to this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Tosato and Simeoni.]] A risk that you are nourishing today because you are putting in place all the conditions, that is you are creating the humus so that one tomorrow someone will take everything that is happening these days and use it to take power in this country, as it has already happened at the beginning of the century. [[Applause from Senator Endrizzi.]] SUSTA (PD). Please! CRIMI (M5S). But it will be even worse and even darker because with this law we kill a House and the other Chamber is elected with a system like Italicum with the absolute majority of those who win, who will elect alone the Constitutional Court, the President of the Republic, the Supreme Council of the judiciary. The party that wins will be the son of the government that led him to win the elections, and therefore will no longer be a legislative power independent of the executive power, or at least detached. The legislative power will be a slave to the executive power, as it is in fact already since the Renzi Government. You are creating the conditions for today or tomorrow that dark period that we had passed, for which some of our fellow citizens have struggled, even with life, to be re-established in this country. Today we find ourselves these Reconstituted Fathers, as we call them, trying to kill that text on which the constituent Fathers of that time lost their lives, their parents, their relatives [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] to get this country out of fascism. You're creating the conditions for him to come back. There was only one thing to do if you wanted to simplify the legislative process: to halve Members. It was so simple. Today, at this moment, while we are working, we demonstrate the usefulness of bicameralism because if on the other hand, in another House, they are approving the bill on competition (whether we like it or not, whether you like it or not, it is still a bill that is taking its course) here we are discussing an equally important bill. This demonstrates the usefulness of bicameralism. Imagine this country with a single locked House, hostage of a majority that wants to impose a calendar, blocking the work on this constitutional reform... CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Bravo! CRIMI (M5S). ...blocking all the real reforms that this country has been waiting for for years: a reform of the Fornero law, the introduction of citizenship income (for which we are Europe's taillight), the lowering of taxes, interventions to promote small and medium-sized enterprises. I don't think people at home, unemployed people care about bicameralism. Try asking around if anyone knows what if you're approving it in the Senate. He doesn't care, because the only thing they think is that there's no work; there's no money to get to the end of the month. That's what people are interested in outside. [[Applause from Senator Bottici]] He doesn't give a damn about these Byzantineisms, these techniques that are needed to keep you alive, because they are just techniques to keep you alive, the Democratic Party, which is no longer a party, but a coalition of a thousand relics that today try to bypass a secret vote because it is afraid. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]] It took five seconds: the time to press a button, and you could reject the amendment we had proposed; yet you did nothing. You didn't use those five seconds because there's obviously no majority. The majority here only go on in the form of blackmail. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Tosato and Simeoni.]] And also thanks to the taxi Verdini 2015 that carries people from Berlusconi and Renzi. These are not my words, it is he who defined himself as that: he said he was the taxi that leads from Berlusconi to Renzi. Because they're the same thing, two sides of the same coin. And as in 2005 you fought against that reform of Berlusconi, today you are approving a reform worse than that. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]] I want to see you defend this text in the referendum. I want to see the faces; I see the faces of those people, because some of you are voting with sadness, because they know what crap they're voting for. You know that. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Council Senator]] I'm sorry, because inside of you you know what crap you're voting for; you're defending the indefensible. It's over. With this passage one of the two chambers is abolished, democracy is over. It is a beautiful hello, we say it to Minister Boschi: beautiful, hello. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Crimi shows a photo of Minister Boschi with the inscription "Bella Ciao". Live comments from the M5S Group at the government desks.]] MORONESE (M5S). (At the address of the government benches). Look how he laughs, he laughs in my face! You're worthless!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u244	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u245	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u246	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, this is the explanation of vote on the first article of the draft law amending the Constitution. [[Brusio.]] If the henhouse down here quiets down, maybe we can all participate in the reasoning. This is a constitutional change that is living in total silence outside the House, with complicity that has never been so strong on the part of the media, that they are afraid of the maneuverer. A maneuver who has set an example in the procedural way in which senators have been bent in this House to vote on amendments that would not have voted in a free Senate. [[Senator Santangelo points the phone's goal at the government desks. Protests from the PD Group. Senator Commissioner De Poli intervenes.]] We must remember and stigmatize, Mr President, first of all the method used. When the opposition exercises its right of opposition it is accused of obstructionism, as if parliamentary obstructionism did not belong to the history of those who today sit in the benches of the Government [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , of those who today are sitting on those benches on the left and who want to stand up to constituents. Then there are subjects, I see one on the left, which appeared perhaps to increase its attendance rate. Good morning, Senator Verdini. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Raise your hand! CANDIANI (LN-Aut). You don't have to raise your hand. We know which side you're on and what you're doing. Then there are some subjects we have unfortunately seen the use of. I'm sorry, Senator Cociancich, about the use they made of it. I imagine and also understand the weight that lies on his shoulders, because of the pressure he received. One thing must be said: the interview that you gave a few hours ago to some media betrays - and without much effort - its embarrassment in the face of an amendment that you did not make, that you did not sign and that you do not even ignore the apocryphalism. It is apocryphal, it is not done by you; it is understood by your own statements to the press. His alias is Aquilanti. Then at least have the courtesy to stand up and say: I made that amendment, the signature at the bottom is mine. Produce here the original, which was not produced. Mr Russo (PD). Make an algorithm! CANDIANI (LN-Aut). And on this, President Grasso, we were deluded that he had begun a path of dignity towards the Senate, which you represent, vis-à-vis the senators who sit in here and vis-à-vis the citizens who are out there, in the country, and who would have liked to see retouched by this Senate article 3, what should lead everyone to have the same rights and the same economic and social capacities. Instead, here we talk about technicalisms, which will simply have to guarantee the future ruler - President Renzi, as he would like to be - an electoral law and a Senate bent simply to be servile. No, Mr President, he was not supposed to represent the institutions at this last stage in this way. There are portraits of his predecessors. What you will have back there will not be a portrait worthy of the President of the Senate, but it will be a portrait of a person who has bowed to the will of a government. [[Comments from the PD Group. Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti.]] Mr Russo (PD). Stop! CANDIANI (LN-Aut). It is Parliament that gives the government the direction, does not bend to the will of the government! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u247	Senator Candiani, you need to make an explanation of vote, not a statement of insults.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u248	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, this is a free senator's explanation of vote and I do not care if you take the picture away from me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, I'm not taking the picture from you, because I'm talking. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). At least respect the dignity of those who want to represent the citizens who elected him to be represented here. Mr Russo (PD). Stop! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You respect those who represent these institutions. VOLPI (LN-Aut). He doesn't represent them! CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the institutions here do not represent them by acting as they did this morning. You have denied the respect of the Rules of Procedure to senators who have come in here with loyalty and have submitted an amendment to you which your predecessor himself would have admitted, using the same Rules as you do not know. Now what's happening here is Article 1, which is just the beginning of a path. But we wonder if that is the reformative will of the government, if that is the rest of the way. The North League is not there, we will not bend to this way and I said it yesterday: do not abuse our patience, because the citizens who are outside can no longer and we will give effective representation of this transformation that is masking a great deception and we will reveal it to the citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Scibona and Bignami. Congratulations. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u249	We shall therefore proceed to the vote. There was a request for simultaneous voting by electronic means. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 1 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). CASTALDI (M5S). The only red thing you have left is the button! [[Senator Moronese shows a sheet with the inscription "Reformed."]] I suspend the sitting until 7 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 2.13 p.m. and resumed at 7.20 p.m.) The session is resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, regarding the anticipations made yesterday evening by the Presidency following the evaluation of the approximately 1,200 amendments and sub-amendments tabled in Article 2, the Presidency adds to the number of proposals declared inadmissible amendments 2,903, 2,906, 2,2030 due to the lack of clarity in the regulatory scope, subject to rewording, as well as the sub-amendments from 2,204/100 to 2,204/25, because they do not relate to the main amendment. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Shame on you! Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). What are you talking about? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As regards secret votes, he pointed out that on amendments 2,990 (text 2) and 2,991 (text 2) these requests were partially admissible in relation to the criterion of prevalence.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u250	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u251	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u252	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would just like to make one point. In the last vote of the morning my vote was against and not in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u253	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u254	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u255	MICHELONI (PD). Mr President, I would like to highlight one problem. I have taken note of the inadmissibility of two amendments concerning the Foreign College. I would urge you to put aside one of these amendments in order to allow the Government, if necessary, to give an answer. A year ago, when there were no possibilities and no hypothesis of direct election of senators, we logically took note that it was not possible to keep the Foreign College in the Senate, because there was no instrument for a second grade election. Without prejudice to what will happen with Article 2, probably an agreement, which I am delighted to have been found, brings back the eligibility in the Senate. At this point, we ask for a solution. The amendment has been written in a very clear way and it can be reworded, specifying the voting procedures, in order to reinsert at least the senators of the foreign college. In all this we were extremely correct a year ago, when we argued that it was logical that the senators were no longer present here in the Senate, also explaining, however, that a fundamental reflection on this issue had to be done. To us, or at least to me, it appears much more significant the presence of the representation of the Italian communities in the world in the Chamber - as is being drawn at this moment - which does not give the government confidence, but can produce high-level orientations and reflections for our communities and for Italy's relations with them. So, logically, it would be better to remove the deputies, who trust the government, where there is a very direct party relationship with governability, and leave the representation here in the Senate. I understand that all the work that you and your staff have had to deal with may have led to the rejection of these two amendments. And, then, I urge, at least as far as the Senate is concerned, the possibility of setting aside one. We put this problem on the government table. If the answer is negative, I would like the Government to give it to the Italian communities abroad. We can find, in fact, if there is the will, the way to write this amendment without going to reopen other articles. It is a question of will: on the imperfection of the writing of this text I have heard voices that make me think that it is possible to solve this problem if there is a political will. I understand the declaration of inadmissibility of amendment 2.205, which concerns the House of Deputies and on which the speech is much more complex, while on amendment 2.206 I would ask you to pay attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u256	Senator Micheloni, I cannot put aside an amendment which has been declared inadmissible. I can, however, take into account, if there are any new amendments from the Government, that the problem will certainly be available again. It is a little difficult from a procedural point of view to set aside the amendment which was declared inadmissible. In any case, there will be the greatest attention on this issue and, where possible, it will certainly be taken up again by virtue of that political assessment which you referred to.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u257	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u258	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u259	CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly on three points. The first point concerns the inadmissibility of the amendments tabled in Article 2. I would like to reiterate that Rule 104 of the Senate Rules makes clear reference to draft ordinary laws, for which the shuttle can happen, but it is not mandatory. For the constitutional revision bill, the double passage is, instead, a fact due and inherently implies the double analysis of the text and, therefore, the emendability of articles even if the Chamber of Deputies has not modified the text approved by the Senate. The Senate has, in fact, the duty to analyze a second time, in a full and total way, the text that it has already approved, otherwise the double reading would not be realized. This consideration is not only mine, but has been made by the majority of the constitutionalists that we have had the opportunity to raise in the first Commission. Therefore, I would like to put this to your attention, Mr President, so that you can perhaps reconsider your previous decision. I shall now turn to the issue of the orderly conduct of the proceedings of this House. During today's sitting it has happened many times that, despite the request for intervention from some colleagues (more often colleagues in the wings of the Chamber, i.e. to the right and left, like colleagues in the Left Ecology and Freedom component), you did not give them the floor, probably because you did not get a chance to see them. This has happened - for example - to my colleague Mr Bignami and it is a particularly unpleasant fact, which creates difficulties in carrying out the work. Since it is up to my fellow Secretaries to take note of the requests for intervention, I should like to ask you two things. Firstly, I would ask you to urge my fellow Secretaries to write down the requests and pay attention because - I repeat - we have not been able to draw their attention many times. Secondly, although I know the Members who are very serious people at the moment, I wonder whether it would be better, to ensure that the role is played by a majority senator and an opposition senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u260	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u261	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u262	COMPANIES (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, of course it is not my intention to give a dispersive aspect to our debate, but I asked to speak when Mr Micheloni spoke, because it seems to me that the subject he has put is to be considered very carefully. We have established in Article 1 that the Senate is an Assembly of territorial representativeness, and consequently - according to Micheloni's reasoning - it is infinitely more logical to see representation abroad set in the Senate rather than in the House. If you - I do not want to question it - do not want to be the executioner of the Constitution, President, nor to make the guillotine of eligibility work whimsically, your invitation to the Government is at this time; it is interloquent with my colleague Micheloni, it is now that this House deserves to hear if there is a Government opinion on this matter. Otherwise, it becomes very difficult to work in the conditions in which we are: we are without rapporteur, there is a lot of passion and, for my part, there is maximum composure. I would not, however, like to see composure become a reason for exclusion to be considered irrelevant. Senator Micheloni's argument deserves an evaluation by the Government at this time. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u263	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u264	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u265	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I will be brief. You have read the inadmissible amendments over the past few days and have taken into account the requests for secret voting that had been accepted. The sitting should have started at 7 p.m., but we started at 7.20 p.m.: I wonder what happened in these 20 minutes? The time has perhaps been necessary to re-evaluate the eligibility of the amendments which, by chance - I do not want to be misguided - what strikes? He goes to strike those for whom the secret vow had been admitted: out of six, one lives. This morning we all know how he did not vote in secret. Now we try not to vote by secret vote using the eligibility criterion, or by admitting secret voting only on parts of amendments on which the secret vote had already been allowed. Mr President, I hope that you have not met a member of the government or any of the high-level political representatives of the government in these twenty minutes. No, the fact that you have declared the secret vote admissible cannot be reversed for the sole benefit of the majority. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] President, this morning I also heard in this House (and not just in the group leaders) speak - and I am sorry to have heard it for the first time in the group leaders - of someone who may or may not be the executioner of the Constitution. [[Applause from Senator Bottici]] We're in front of a Constitution bomber here! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Mr Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u266	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u267	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u268	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, Senator Micheloni's request to my ears sounds like this: But if you take out the foreign constituency, I don't agree with you anymore! It says this in some ways by venting the need to review the inadmissibility of certain amendments. Now, inadmissibility is certainly a matter for you. But, from a fundamental point of view, this is a political matter, which cannot compete with you. I would have expected you to say to Senator Micheloni, not that the Government could give him satisfaction and satisfaction, but that it is not the business of the President, who regulates only the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]] And to see that you come back, together with the officials, after the press gave as hypothetical the arrival of an amendment of the government that plundered the secret votes, this makes me think that there is, behind some screen, an evaluation of this type: but perhaps the amendment of the government is not so opportune, we do it through regulation. Now, I didn't know, I didn't think, I didn't realize I'd see anything beyond what happened this morning. And this morning I thought that something would not happen beyond what happened yesterday. So, I say it in Latin: usque tandem? How far do we have to be fooled? How long do citizens have to bear that the Rules of Procedure and the substance of this debate are drawn up here as a chewing gum for the convenience of very few people? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u269	Senator Endrizzi, maybe it wasn't clear what I read at first. It must also be clear that secret vows remain. Senator Calderoli and whoever proposed it certainly... [[Comments from the M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]] The other secret vows were... ENDRIZZI (M5S). We don't care about the secret. It is on the substance that we consider. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. On the substance, they have been declared inadmissible, unless reworded. From a point of view of literal construction, if it is literally adjusted, the amendment is admissible. You say we have to write the Constitution, but if we have to write with amendments that leave... I invite you to take the sub-amendments and to include the relevant text in the main amendment. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Read the pinches, Fat! [[Comments from the PD Group]] Excuse me, but the text on which the amendments were tabled reads: The term of office of the senators is the same as that of the bodies of the territorial institutions. Then the word "dai" is replaced by: "dai" except for the representatives of linguistic minorities in the "dai" languages. Or after the words: "from which they were elected" it is proposed to add the following: "except for representatives of linguistic minorities." Which means that the term of office of the senators representing linguistic minorities is unknown. Are they gonna be senators for life? You have created the figure of the representative of the linguistic minority who becomes senator for life. This seems to me to be something... [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] It is therefore the task of the Presidency, which controls the effects of possible approval, to believe that it is not possible to write the Constitution in this way. Therefore, if there is no rewording, it is possible that the term of office of the senators representing linguistic minorities will remain without any possibility of evaluation in the Constitution. You tell me if it's something that can... [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). Perhaps the Presidency will also take note of the speeches. Thanks, huh? Bravo! [[Ironic applause from Senator Airola.]] Vote for it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Who asked to intervene? AIROLA (M5S). Hammers, Endrizzi, Santangelo, Bulgarelli: if you have his secretaries say so! [[Senator Cardinal's comments.]] Don't shout like that, Senator Airola: look at the House having its own perfect sound, which brings in the voice. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). Evidently not to his ears.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u270	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u271	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u272	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Do you see, President, that the rush is bad counselor? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's true, it's true. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Yesterday you rushed to inform us at the end of the sitting of the list of inadmissible amendments which had been tabled in Article 2, obviously always calculating everything, so as not to allow us the following morning to examine them calmly. [[Comments by Senator Di Biagio.]] All right, we have used the night hours to examine all the inadmissibles, on which I have already intervened this morning, not only to detect inconsistencies, but also to recall the questions concerning the interpretation of Article 104. Now, however, Mr President, after we spent a few hours with agency news - because that is the point we need to discuss - announcing an amendment by the Government to blow up the remaining secret votes, you reopened the work of the House twenty minutes late (which was obviously the result of discussion somewhere). [[Applause from the M5S Group]] or, President, we also hoped that it would be absolutely you, this time, to point your feet) to announce to us, as if nothing were happening, other inadmissibility, precisely on the point of which the agencies spoke. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] In other words, the amendment was intended to blow up secret votes, and you have now added to the list the list of inadmissible votes, in particular in order to render ineffective decisions which you yourself had taken on the secret vote. On the interpretation of these inadmissibilitys we could then for a long time exquisite, at least with regard to some amending proposals, such as our sub-amendment 2,204/100, which has been declared inadmissible: perhaps there has been a refutation, but it is clear to everyone that the premise was before the word "dai", so the modifying scope of the amendment was and is very clear, but the point is that we continue to move forward. Here there is no longer legal certainty, but not even for a few hours: tell us how we must continue in our work, without certainty of compliance with the rules. We leave one way, then we leave the agency launches: at this point, if anyone has any other news - I ask the representatives of the press agencies present - let us know [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami]] , so we'll know how we'll end the night and we who are here, we'll take note of it. Besides, are you also... what words can I use, Mr. President? In Rome we use expressions that aren't really cute, that I don't want to repeat here, but you can't fool us anymore. It is not possible that every time a Diktat arrives from outside - because obviously the attempt had been made - for you the only activity put in place in this House is to avoid secret votes and to avoid votes. What are you afraid of? You have to explain it to me. Why do you want us to argue with the tricks and the escamotage? But let's do it, this vote: you have the numbers! Or how do you have those numbers? I don't think you extorted them. I don't want to think that. You have the numbers, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, and therefore, if they are all free of conscience, why must you be afraid of secret votes and resort to all these tricks, once again putting you, Mr President, in a situation of embarrassment? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami]] One cannot rethink after twenty-four hours the judgment of inadmissibility, unless there is always someone, a stone guest, who gives all the suggestions, who writes in red or blue and resumes it. So you can't go on! We save our dignity on our own, but we are also trying to fight to save your dignity. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami.]] Try, for once, to save dignity! [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group. Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u273	Senator De Petris, I would like to read this legislation, as it would result from the approval of its sub-amendment 2.204/100: the duration of the mandate of the senators coincides with that of the bodies of the territorial institutions, excluding the senators representing linguistic minorities. [[Senator Tonini's comments.]] Therefore, the linguistic minorities, who are excluded from the rule on the duration of their term of office, would like to know, if their sub-amendment was approved, what remains in the Constitution about the length of their term of office. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The reading of the amendments, of course, is made at first stage on 1,200 amendments and sub-amendments. [[Senator Petraglia's comments.]] Initially we see the reference to linguistic minorities, after which we evaluate the text by including it in the rule that is being amended: I also recall that there is a call for reformulation and not a complete inadmissibility of the sub-amendment. The proposal only states that the term of office does not apply to linguistic minorities. There are three amendments, all of them on the same level: Amendment 2,903 proposes to include the words "except for representatives of linguistic minorities" (see amendment 2,906) proposes to include the words "except for representatives of linguistic minorities" (see amendment 2,2030) proposes to include the words "except for senators representing linguistic minorities" (see amendment 2.2030). DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Sure! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I mean, how do we write this term of office in the Constitution? Will the term of office of representatives of linguistic minorities be or will they become senators for life? DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Then, Mr President, let us discuss this matter!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u274	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u275	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u276	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I fully agree with the President's decision, because as members of the linguistic minority we will be directly affected by a rule formulated in this way. On the one hand, of course, we feel a little honored by the great attention paid to our needs. [[Applause from the PD Group]] But in this way perhaps it is better not to have such attention, because we are continually being exploited [[Applause from the PD Group]] for the formulation of amendments which have a clearly obstructive purpose. [[Senator Petraglia's comments.]] We think that perhaps, with amendments of this kind, the decent way of making amending proposals will be exceeded. Differential treatment of minorities is fine, but this would introduce a logical solution. It is absurd to foresee in the Constitution that the senators of the linguistic minority are for life. I don't know who invented this kind of madness. I understand that you want to use this instrument, but at least make the amendments in such a way that they are in keeping with the decorum of the Republic's senators. [[Applause from the PD groups]] and AP (NCD-UDC)).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u277	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u278	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u279	[[Lively protests from Senator Volpi.]] Senator, there are colleagues who have already indicated that they want to intervene: Bulgarelli, Airola, Martelli, Candiani, Endrizzi, Romani Paolo, Bignami and Bonfrisco according to the order given to me by the Secretaries. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group]] Please, Senator Bulgarelli. BULGARRELLI (M5S). Thank you, Commander. I wanted to remind you, since then the decisions it takes become practice - and that is why we always remind you that a decision taken here is very important, because for eternity it will remain previous - that during the budgetary session we voted a law of stability in which there were no pieces. [[Applause from Senators Bignami, Engili and Morra.]] So you're really nice to worry about the text of the Constitution, but your words that day were: now we're voting on the law of stability and then we're going to rewrite it with all the pieces. So either then it could be done and it can be done even now, even if it is not written by the majority, or when it makes decisions it must be much more careful, because being practical this thing today cannot say it, because the other time it did exactly the same thing: it pointed out something that did not make sense and that lacked pieces. I would also like to remind you, again in this House, that you had a separate amendment voted by choosing a sentence that did not make sense in Italian. So everything you're saying today doesn't make any sense. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] When she needs it, it's fine; when she's opposed and doesn't like it, it's not good. If I may, always with great humility and without disturbing anyone, I would like to call you back to your super-partes role in the institutions. You are the second office of the State, I have already told you again: it should be super parties. Otherwise, we'll have Senator Zanda sit right there, and we know how the work is going. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u280	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u281	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u282	AIROLA (M5S). Meanwhile, I remember, like my colleagues, during the electoral law splits where grammar - let me say to someone who graduated in letters - there was nothing at all; neither grammar, nor syntax, nor analysis of prepositions nor even less meaning. On the issue that Senator Zeller points out, I'm surprised that he feels exploited, considering that he's here basically just to bring money home, [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Bignami, Comaroli, Mussini and Simeoni]] He also demonstrated this with the reform of the RAI, where his only amendment was intended to bring nine million to the RAI. Zeller, I'm sorry, it's your job: they're all final users, I'm sorry, it's nothing personal. Then I remember the pieces of the law of stability that were missing, as Senator Bulgarelli recalled. I recall a formal coordination on the electoral law, where amendments have been voted on, then disappeared, then re-inserted. So this House has seen all sorts of things. Today we have exceeded the limit of the limit. I recall the words of some colleagues who in 2005 remembered how Senator Zanda stood on the barricades with the red band and flag, and now he behaves worse than Berlusconi. You are the guarantor of everyone; you are the guarantor of no one now, except for the interests of that platoon that is on the presidency. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Comaroli]] , which is all PD. We should also open a chapter on this, because there is no such thing as a Bureau providing exclusively for members of the PD: we have a President of the PD, two Vice-Presidents of the PD, four Secretaries of the majority. That's it! And let's bring back the Savoys and make this room blue, so at least it makes sense again. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Bignami, Campanella and Simeoni]] Shame on her, and shame on the rest of you, who are worse than the worst scum! Dictators and Fascists! In fact, no excuses, so I insult the fascists. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u283	Senator Airola, you can't even understand what he's saying.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u284	[[Senator Santangelo's comments]] AIROLA (M5S). So I insult the fascists. At least they had a black shirt and they knew what they wanted! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can't scream like that, you can't hear. AIROLA (M5S). You suck! [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u285	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u286	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u287	[[Brusio. Call the president back. Senator Santini's comments. Exchange of apostrophes between Senators of M5S and PD Groups.]] They won't let you talk, Senator Martelli. MARTELLI (M5S). Patience, Mr. President. I'm saying this in no uncertain terms, but we're not fools, we're not fools, and if you want to get us through it, it doesn't work. I say this to you, Mr President, because there is no such thing as a year deciding something, saying that we are wrong, and the next year you say the opposite and we continue to be wrong. Last year, on 1 August, you took a position exactly opposite to today's one on a subject of the same kind; in the same way you did during the debate on the electoral law. These are things reported in the shorthand report. Moreover, there is no such thing - and if there is one I would like you to show me where it is written on the Rules of Procedure - whether an amendment is admissible or not depending on the way it is formulated: when you show us this article we will be able to talk about it. This is absolutely not the case where you can say that. The shorthand reports I mentioned are available: one of them is from Friday, August 1, 2014. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u288	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u289	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u290	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I asked for the floor after Mrs De Petris. You had to or wanted to give Mr Zeller the floor first, and that forces me to make a point that I might not have done before. [[Comments of Senator Tonini]] In an attempt to defend an approach - which, as you can see, Mr President, is screaming vengeance at God over the regular procedures that have always been guaranteed in this House - I would just ask Mr Zeller to specify better: the concern for the linguistic minority he represents in which direction? In fact, linguistic minorities are precisely that area within which the possible freedoms and declinations that pertain to the freedoms of all Italian citizens (and among them also the linguistic minorities) must see guaranteed some prerogatives, to which never fail by virtue of a historical decision, which perhaps no longer makes sense, but which is now so. The painful point is that these poor linguistic minorities are, then, always majorities of government, regardless of the governments that alternate; sometimes there is a clear contradiction, which they themselves serve. In this case, the real, real linguistic minority is the Italian one. We all know: there the Italians ended up in a minority language, no one defends them and no one protects them. We know that we made that commitment many, many years ago, at the end of a war that had devastated those territories, between the First and Second World Wars, and that it had produced the need to protect that population. But, Mr President, I come to us, because the very bitter fact is not this: the bitter fact is that you, Mr President, never appear to be a referee in this matter, you never appear to refer to the needs of both the majority and the opposition to be able to act within a context where the Rules of Procedure are intended to protect everyone, the majority and the opposition. On the other hand, the distortion of the Rules of Procedure that you are working on ends up guaranteeing a majority which obviously has the sacred terror of voting, even if it is not clear why, given that the accessions, whatever they may be, are important, and the few numbers that testify to the votes that have taken place so far should comfort the majority. I therefore wonder why we do not want a secret vote, in which the freedom of conscience of so many of us can exercise its mandate without that bond which is guaranteed to the Member of Parliament, on which we can always discuss. I do not have the time today, nor do I allow myself to open the debate on the parliamentary mandate, but I remember (I do not need to remind you, who knows better than I do) that the only mandate we have in this House, for which we have sworn allegiance in our heart, is that of the institution and the Constitution. Can we appeal to this, Mr President, because, in addition to your indisputable judgment, the opposition in this House does not know where to go to claim its right, to whom can we turn except to you to see guaranteed the right of the opposition, as well as that of the majority, to be able to have a peaceful and serious debate in this House? I therefore urge you, Mr President, not to be the instrument of distortion, but to ensure that the minimum that must be respected by the institution and the Constitution, so that everyone in this House can play their part, as long as there is a Parliamentary Assembly or a Senate which, as President Finocchiaro reminded us this morning, is in the Republic of Finocchiaro: we have at least that respect.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u291	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u292	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u293	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I felt that I was in a Chamber in which my fellow Members were participating in a constituent Assembly, in the sense that we were talking about the new Constitution. On the other hand, in the accelerated course of this week, we have been faced earlier with the definition of the criterion of inadmissibility, on which we have discussed for a long time and have not reached a precise determination, so much so that we have created a precedent that will be authentic next time, when someone decides to obstruct and will not know the amount of amendments that can be tabled in order not to incur the criterion that has been established in this House. Afterwards we went through Senator Cociancich's amendment, on which we said things that were then turned towards Senator Cociancich, but in a blameless way: we did not resent the Senator, but we did not agree that an instrument of that kind was being used to eliminate an excessive number of amendments. However, the problem you are putting to us today, Mr President, is very specific. The oppositions, with an attempt to make a secret vote, just want to verify if this majority that by clear vote there is (an evolving majority, a majority - in some ways - liquida...) even with a secret vote corresponds to an effective majority. That's the problem. We thought that this verification could be done today on Article 2, because it was not possible to do it on Article 1, and we imagined that, precisely because the linguistic minorities were mentioned, it was possible to activate this comparison. Since I believe it was a constituent Assembly, it was necessary, compulsory and legitimate on the part of the minority, of oppositions, to verify whether this obvious majority corresponds faithfully to the reality of the will of each individual senator, that only in the secret vote can manifest itself in its entirety. You have told us today that you have considered the possibility of accepting these amendments. But in rethinking, you've come to the point. In twenty years of Parliament, I have never seen a debate on the substance and meaning of an amendment to judge its admissibility. If you want, I can also contribute to this argument, telling you that paragraph 6 of Article 57 of the Constitution provides for an ordinary law also for the forfeiture of the elected senators in the Regional Councils and the Autonomous Provinces. Theoretically, that ordinary law could also regulate the possible replacement of those senators who should eventually lapse. It is an endless debate, in which you force us and in which I do not want to participate. In your absolute and infinite discretion you can decide whether the amendments are admissible or not. It has decreed and declared their eligibility. Today we are told that the amendment, if adopted, would create a vulnus of meaning, on which we could spend months debating and on which we do not agree, introducing a further element of discretion in the definition of eligibility. You are creating another precedent, according to which, when you define eligibility, you have to go and see if the addition of the proposed text with that amendment to another amendment has overall a correct meaning in Italian and has substantial meaning. I have the impression that we are really climbing on mirrors and I also say this to the majority. You did not want to take up the invitation made by President Finocchiaro to the Commission. Do you want to reopen a site of serious reforms and genuine confrontation, with certain times as we have always told you? If we had all agreed, in the name of the invitation, and I do not want to repeat it, of President Finocchiaro, we could have safely done so! On the other hand, we have gone on with very discretionary interpretations of the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, and with the political inability to propose a political solution. I say this to the majority. Allow this House to make a secret vote. You choose what the amendment might be, but a secret vote here, today, tomorrow or in the next few days, must be made, because it is a check that this Parliament needs to make in political terms. We need to understand whether there is a genuine majority on this constitutional reform, for how it is coming about, and not a majority as shown in the clear vote. That is the political problem. We did not want to pursue the rational path proposed by President Finocchiaro and instead wanted to continue a regulatory path where you, Mr President, are getting angry (and I apologise for the deadline) trying to bring home a reform, whatever it is, in order to close by 13 October. But you can't be under this kind of pressure. You're taking responsibility that doesn't belong to you. I have the impression that we are creating, day after day, a series of dangerous precedents, like the other day on inadmissibility. The Cociancich amendment is in parliamentary legitimacy: we did not share it, but it is in full parliamentary legitimacy; it is a mechanism, a trick, which by regulation is allowed and has removed thousands, millions, of amendments. Today we are debating whether eligibility is correct or not, even with a Presidency which, compared to a first analysis, changes its mind. And on the eligibility criteria, since you have only rethought the amendments that provided for secret votes, I have a doubt and I would ask you to verify the admissibility of the other 72 million amendments. At this point, in fact, I also have some doubts about the rest. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] But to what extremes, to what dialectical funambolisms are they forced to resort to justify what you are deciding here? We are writing yet another bad page of Parliament, because that is not how we proceed. I would ask the majority, in conclusion, to have a secret vote taken. Verify the solidity of your majority and the oppositions will subside. This is the political objective: you verify it, you get it and you take it home. Because this Parliament has shown that it is deciding by a majority of a certain kind. We will then see what it will be because, as ordinary law, which oversees constitutional reform, we will then see it, in the last part-session, of the one hundred and sixty-one senators who will ultimately have to vote on constitutional reform in its final process. Mr President, today we have seen your funambolisms about eligibility, including the substance of an amendment, and then whether it is possible or not to vote on amending proposals by secret ballot. Excuse me if I tell you and I repeat that you are taking responsibility that I advise you not to take on. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u294	Senator Romani, since you invited the majority to choose at least one secret vote, I can inform you that the President has chosen to make a secret vote. Sub-amendment 2.204/1 will certainly be voted by secret ballot, because it is a prerequisite both in terms of eligibility and in terms of secret voting. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] So the secret vote will be there and you will be pleased to see us vote by secret ballot. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). "Choose"? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have used the word 'chosen' because you have invited the majority to choose, but of course it is not a choice, but a consequence of the assessment of eligibility. I wanted to use his own word, not because he took a secret vote out of the hat, but because Senator Calderoli's sub-amendment is admissible and can be voted by secret ballot. That's what I'm saying to let people know. [[Senator Candiani points out that he wants to intervene.]] He asked Senator Chiti to intervene... [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group]] Sorry for the mistake. I call Mr Candiani.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u295	Mr President, this slip that makes me coincide with Senator Chiti is perhaps providential, partly because on many constitutional aspects... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I was given incorrect information. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Yeah, it's not a problem. Like I said, we saw them and we keep seeing them together. Mr President, I will not turn against you because there is no more reason to do so. We could appreciate his gummy. It is not a matter of reverence or laughter, but of understanding the extent to which it is worth it or not. If you talk against a wall, don't expect an answer. What happened an hour ago, when you declared the new inadmissible in relation to the amendments already admitted to the secret vote (or, if we prefer, these Byzantineisms), makes me open my eyes. We are still waiting for you, Mr President, to produce the original amendment tabled by Senator Cociancich, whose voice we have not yet heard in this House, although we are sure that after this afternoon's break you will be able to produce an act signed. Then we will check if it is the same deposited in recent days. Mr President, for those who have not noticed, I would also like to invite my colleagues to the most... President. Senator Candiani, you are well aware that the Offices do not accept amendments tabled beyond the deadline. This can't happen. Senator Calderoli, please don't suggest to Senator Candiani. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). President, Senator Calderoli is not Dr. Serafin and therefore does not suggest. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u296	That's good.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u297	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). It is not under discussion that an amendment has come, but that a signature has been added to an amendment, which is a little more detailed. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will have noticed that senators are missing for life in this House. This should already make you realize that the majority are considered more than safe - much more than safe - otherwise they would have taken the skeletons out of the closets and brought them here to vote. I say, then, once again: but what are we doing in here? It is certain, Mr President, that the use of secret voting as a regulatory instrument provided for in the Constitution, which is permitted by the Rules of Procedure, is one of the possibilities left democratically in the hands of the senators, whether they are opposition or majority. We're not making anything up. I turn to that minority of the Democratic Party that in the past months had had a sense of pride, demonstrating that it had a different opinion than that of the sole maneuver who sits at the Nazarene: in this text it is not expected the direct election of the senators. Do you want to admit it and understand it or not? Or do you need to go and reread the shorthand of Senator Tonini's intervention that said it clear and round? Or do we have to read much more precisely the amendments that you are not admitting to the vote? There's no direct election of senators in here. He's not here. At what price did you bow? You and your conscience will pay this price. And you bent to get what? Nothing; and tell the citizens that instead they will choose the senators. We want to exercise this opportunity, Mr President, democratically and in accordance with what the Rules of Procedure allow, and if the Rules of Procedure also allow the use of the secret vote, we ask for it to be used. I ask you why this amendment cannot be accepted, which I would like to read at this point. Amendment 2,990 (text 2) provides to replace the word "dai" in Article 2, paragraph 1, paragraph "art. The fifth paragraph of Article 57 (1) shall read as follows: The fifth paragraph would therefore read as follows: The term of office of the senators coincides with that of the bodies of the territorial institutions to which they have been elected, taking into account the representation of linguistic minorities, among those who have been elected. It has nothing to do with what you said earlier about other amendments which would even provide for the lifelong election of senators representing linguistic minorities. It is consistent, it respects the Rules of Procedure, it is a single period. It is accepted by the Rules of Procedure as a secret vote, yet you have stated that: "With regard to secret votes, it is stated that in relation to amendments 2,990 (text 2) and 2,991 (text 2) such requests are partially admissible in relation to the criterion of prevalence". The prevalence criterion in here? President, tell me that you are using Byzantineisms, or better still, you are telling me that you have had a meeting with your majority first, the PD, Senator Verdini, others, Lotti, the Minister - I do not know who was there - and you have decided that you cannot afford to take this risk. I would also like to remind you of the other amendment to make it clear to everyone what we are talking about. If the amendment were adopted, it would provide that the term of office of the senators would be the same as that of the bodies of the territorial institutions with which they were elected, representing the linguistic minorities. I repeat, this is what they have been elected, and if they have been elected, they have an election period and a term of office. Nothing to do with what you mentioned earlier, even fearing a lifetime election of senators representing linguistic minorities. I want to take her out of the embarrassment, President, and I am doing a reformulation; of course I am doing it, and I am holding the 'dai', which has put the majority in the House. We'll rephrase it, and then I'll give you the text. I am referring to Amendment 2,991 (text 3): In paragraph 1, paragraph "art. 57', fifth paragraph, after the words "which were elected," add the following: "with representation of linguistic minorities." You will tell the citizens that this "dai" allows direct election - it is not true - and you say, by voting against this amendment, that you have respect for linguistic minorities. Do so, vote against this amendment, which has normative scope, which is eligible for the secret vote and which, according to our Rules of Procedure, can be admitted to the vote. Do so and you have once again proved inconsistent with what you yourself have stated. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u298	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u299	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u300	[[Senator Endrizzi points out that he wants to intervene.]] The Senator of Bignami has been asking to speak since this morning. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). No, Mr President, I have not since yesterday. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It seems to me then that the time has come. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Because I'm standing in front of her, she just doesn't see me. I was registered this morning. I want to tell this story: twice I came to the Secretary Senators, I was put on the list and I was never given the floor. Now because I'm struggling... president. I'm getting better. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). I think I'm just as entitled as everyone else. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] And then I thought about this and I said, Here, perhaps this too is one of the others and the many pressures that I am undergoing to change my place. I don't admit that, though. I'm alone, but I have a right to talk like everyone else. I wouldn't want it to be an escamotage to silence me or to send me to the majority. I just wanted to give you an idea, but it's late, because you've been talking a long time. I wanted to ask if you could, since you had been late, suspend a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes to reword; and I hope I can speak again, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u301	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u302	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u303	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I hope you understand that my fellow Members who spoke earlier expressed some reason for being absurd. There have been technical, procedural and content malpractices in the past, which have not seen it as a careful critic, but rather as a diligent and understanding one, in order to protect the interests of the majority. But this does not mean that we claim the right to make mistakes today, as if we had earned a bonus by putting up with those things, first because we have not endured them and indeed have denounced them and, second, because we do not fail to our conscience. The reasoning for absurdity, however, serves to remind us that you rightly did not speak the word when a text of the Government entered this House which provided for the party of the President of the Republic: twenty-one elected senators, indeed appointed (but now the two terms are synonymous) directly by the President of the Republic, who lasted the time necessary to go to elect the next. So it was really the head of state's private party. This was said by many constitutional auditionists (but how one thing enters from one ear and exits from the other). Today, however, you have done something that the press must stress: you have spoken on the subject of an amendment, and you have stated that it is not politically acceptable. I mean, you basically said that this can't be because it would be a political twist. You did an act of political censorship instead of technical evaluation. I thought then to ask you, Mr President, what the government's lines were on the possible rewording, because I quite rightly differ: you tell me the technical and formal criteria, while the government tells me what it can accept. And I would ask Minister Boschi: What is wrong with these amendments and what is the ingredient? Don't tell me the garlic, because otherwise, you know, the witches' label gets to you right away. What's the ingredient? But you have anticipated me, Mr President, and you have said what the conditions are for an amendment to be accepted or not. I think you're in cognitive dissonance right now. [[Comments from the PD Group]] and that this confusion stems from the fact that her heart tells her one thing and another is whispered to her ear.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u304	Please do not do a psychological introspection work on the President: at least that can avoid it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u305	[[Senator Airola's comments.]] ENDRIZZI (M5S). So, President, let's say there's no heart, either, go. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u306	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u307	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u308	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). Mr President, I believe that our debate has taken an objective step forward from this morning. This morning, as you will recall, we had a debate about what might seem to be allusions to your conduct of the House and this evening all the different oppositions explicitly challenge you at the level of the politician a partisan management of the work on constitutional reform. This is the first objective step forward in our debate, on which I would like to make a common reflection: either the oppositions are motivated by the bad faith, that is to say that they have chosen it as a target, because, not having arguments to lead in this debate, they think to dump on the Presidency everything objectively is a source of problems; or, as he argued in a superb way, I must say, Mr Martelli, on the part of the Presidency there is a management of the Rules of Procedure that turns and turns the arguments, but that does as when using the fixed dice: always the number six comes out. This is the heart of the problem: we cannot find out here, in fact, that you argue once on one side and once on the other, in such a way that, however, oppositions are always wronged, entering into contradiction with yourself, not with others who bring arguments. Unlike my fellow Romans and Candiani, who have simply given her opportunities to restore a minimum balance in the conduct of the work, I would ask her instead to stop for five minutes and to give all five minutes of rest so that she can return to this House to say that what she had established is true, that is, it has substance and it is a condition of legality and respect for the possibility for the oppositions to lead their battle of democracy. Otherwise, we will increasingly degrade the role of guarantee and third-party that the institutions and men in them are called to represent this level of guarantee and more and more it will seem impossible to conduct the reform of the Italian Constitution. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u309	I am pleased to see, however, that the reformulation has had a positive effect, because now, without wishing to anticipate - which I no longer intend to do, as I did last night - I will have to evaluate the reformulation of the text of amendment 2,991, at the first signature of Senator Candiani, which led to a correct text, which can be voted on. Take it as an anticipation, because I didn't read the text, so I'll check it out better. [[Senator Bulgarelli's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u310	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u311	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u312	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I have reworded my amendment in turn, so we obviously expect you to look at the rewording now. I am obliged to make a point, Mr President, because you referred to the inconsistency of the text in order to justify the statements of inadmissibility. I would like to point out to you that, perhaps since the first reading, it should have declared this text inconsistent and not worthy, which has some problem, both in the wording that came from the House, and in what we have sent to it, and in the rewording of the Finocchiaro amendment. I ask you, Mr President, what happens if the mayors, whose term of office will still coincide with that of the Regional Councils, from which they were elected as senators, cease to be such? Mr President, you know perfectly well that there is a certain statistic of cases where this happens, for example if the City Council does not approve the budget or can be distrusted... BULGARRELLI (M5S). The municipalities can be dissolved for the mob! DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Exactly: Municipalities can be dissolved for mafia. In such cases, however, they remain senators! [[Senator Taverna's comments.]] But you do not care about this, even if, on the basis of this text, after a year from the moment they have fallen, they remain senators. Mr President, since you have then been very precise in going to see if the rule on linguistic minorities is congruent or incongruent, you should perhaps have exercised your competence over these texts too, not to mention the conflict, which would also affect you, between the House and the Senate, because there are no closing rules in the event of a conflict of attribution. So, we'll be facing mayors who remain senators, even if they're no longer mayors, who may be elected when they already know that the city is about to be dissolved for mafia, so they get to the Senate and they're still immunity. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators De Pin, Simeoni and Volpi]] You can play this game! I turn to Senator Zeller: speaking of mayors who become senators, you will have two, Trento's and Bolzano's, and I think this is the only case. I do not use linguistic minorities for instrumental purposes, because I would like to remind you that in this country, unfortunately, you who are foreseen as such in the treaties, the other linguistic minorities, who may not have other countries in which they speak their language, are not protected at all. We have also made this discussion for RAI, about the Sardinian language and the Friulians, but you are not interested in this. So, once and for all, Senator Zeller, we really do get into this. For example, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs we are also going on with the debate on guarantees for the true protection of linguistic minorities, because it is not that there are language minorities of the B and others of the A series, such as the German one, because there are countries in which German is spoken, or the French one, because there are countries in which French is spoken, and therefore they are able to be protected. There are other minorities, who speak languages to all intents and are communities. Therefore, that of the instrumentality to bring home the results is in any case a matter that concerns only you and only you. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u313	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u314	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u315	CHITI (PD). Mr President, I would like to say quite frankly that the debate we are holding has two aspects that I do not believe will convince me, and I think that at least one of these, if not both of us, should worry all of us. The first is that the debate on all issues and above all on a subject such as the Constitution should at least have as its basis mutual respect. I do not think it is useful for the changes made to the Constitution to use time repeatedly for the speeches to attack or offend the President of the Senate. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC) and the Bondi and Repetti senators]] It doesn't seem to me that it's a fair way, and I don't think it's right to offend the Senators Secretary of Assembly, who, when they play their part, are not of the PD, of Forza Italia or of the 5 Star Movement. [[Ironic comments from the M5S Group.]] You guys should shut up! ( [[Live comments from Senators Santangelo and Airola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u316	Silence, please, let me speak! Senator Santangelo, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u317	[[Senator Airola's comments.]] Senator Airola, I'm calling you back to order. I'm calling you to order, Senator Airola. CHITI (PD). I would also like to know, Mr President, whether in this House, as has already been pointed out, we can talk to everyone, if we discuss each other, except with the senators of the Five Star Movement, who do not allow us to intervene with a different opinion of their own. [[Live comments from the M5S Group. Applause from the PD Group]] Learn to respect! Buffoni! Buffoons! ( [[Live comments from Senators Airola De Pietro, Lucidi, Nugnes and Santangelo.]] CHITI (PD). Sit down and learn to respect! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's talk. [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] You're demonstrating what Senator Chiti says. AIROLA (M5S). You suck! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, you are demonstrating... (Exchange of apostrophes between Senators Marino Luigi and Lucidi). CHITI (PD). That's confirmation. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] CARDINALI (PD). Get out! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's just about letting people talk. AIROLA (M5S). What are you talking about? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, you can't stop others from talking. [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] Please, Senator Chiti, continue. CHITI (PD). The second question is a political assessment. I congratulate Senator Calderoli, with whom there is sometimes a relationship of convergence and often of opposition, but I congratulate him, because he was hegemony: Senator Calderoli managed to hegemony the battle of opposition on the issues of the Constitution. If you notice, we cannot discuss the substance, except a few times: we discuss, for hours and hours, only and exclusively procedures. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] Yesterday I appreciated the speech you made, Senator Uras, because you recognized a point that is decisive: that is that we are discussing 80 million amendments and I think - I said it even a year ago, so there is a confirmation on this - that if the oppositions had been able to choose 15, 20, 30 amendments, no more, and on these to ask for a debate of a day or a day and a half, it would have been useful for everyone. I say this after I voted on an amendment last night because it corresponds to my settings, which I had not tabled, but Senator Paolo Romani, or Calderoli or others. On the other hand, we are not discussing issues here, we are talking about procedures. Then, if there are 82 million amendments, we complain to the President of the Senate if he has to cut them otherwise Parliament is paralyzed, or to Senator Cociancich if he makes an amendment to simplify it. But this must be the case: if you choose one road, you compare with that road and not on another. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Senator Buemi]] Senator Romani... [[Comments of Senator Giarrusso]] Senator Romani, I'm addressing you, not... [[Comments from the M5S Group]] You are of a great political force, which is in opposition, with which we are opposed, but it is a great political force. But you transform the question of secret voting, not a matter of merit, that is, when the secret vote is required and when it is not (and on this we align ourselves with the Rules of Procedure), and make it a kind of thermometer to judge confidence and how much we can trust each other. [[Applause from Senator Mattesini]] But we are here in Parliament, and if we do not trust us either when we agree or when we are opponents, what must the citizens of us think out of here, that we are sent by them here to make laws? [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] WOMAN (M5S). You suck! CHITI (PD). Attention, because the secret vote cannot be transformed into a thermometer for the reliability of majorities or oppositions. As far as I am concerned, I want to know first when there is a secret vote, because if I do not vote in accordance with my Group, I want to say this: because we are not hiding, and with our own face we are responding to the choices that are being made. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC) and Senator Buemi]] Finally, the last consideration I want to make is more than merit. I wanted to do it later, once I got to the topic, but the advance now, in part, because Senator Candiani and Senator De Petris have made some observations of merit. The amendment that I shall vote on in paragraph 1 of Article 2 with regard to the fifth paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution may not be accepted. You may not share it and you say it about it because you do not share it. But, you see, Senator Candiani, you cannot talk about problems of conscience, neither with me nor with others, because I did not with pleasure, but with regret and with torment I did not vote like my party a year ago on constitutional reform and electoral law. It's easier for you, you don't disagree with your party secretary. When there was a dissensionary mayor, his name was Tosi, I don't think you beatified him. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Munerato.]] Dissent, then, is a serious matter. But let us turn to the substance of this amendment. Paragraph 2 of Article 2 cannot be amended; I would have liked it if it had been amended, so much so that our amendments were there. Senator Finocchiaro, you spoke with reference to the past and, I believe, also to the President of the Senate. The precedent of 1993 was certainly a precedent, but it was based on a unanimous assessment of political forces: it could be taken into account - and the President took this into account - and it could not be taken into account, but I refer to your decision. In any case, certainly the precedent was this. If then what is open is paragraph 5 of Article 2, you may decide to leave things as they were. On the left it was once said that the much worse, the better it was not really convenient for political battles - at least for reformist ones - but it can be done. Or you can decide that, if we are convinced, there is a mediation. It is a mediation, of course, because the Senate will be councilors and mayors (and I would have preferred that there should be no incompatibility, but not even the obligation), but they will be chosen by the citizens. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] They say it's a winding way. Certainly it is a tortuous formulation, but I remember my experience: in 1995, as Formigoni, as Bersani, as Ghigo, as Galan (I don't remember others)... SANTANGELO (M5S). Go home! CHITI (PD). ...we were elected by a law that provided for citizens to vote on the candidate for the presidency. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). No! CHITI (PD). This was the case and even the majority prize was formed and, at the first session of the Regional Council, the President (even in my case was the President-in-Office, the oldest councilman, because he had not yet been elected) took note of how the elections had gone and indicated the President of the Region. Is this a reality or not? In 1995, Senator De Petris (maybe she was in another party), those who then referred to what SEL is today told me: But why doesn't he always want to change the Constitution? You can think differently, but you can't joke: if you write in the Constitution that you take account of voters' votes accordingly, then you can't make fun of voters; because the party that mocked them wouldn't ask voters for votes because they wouldn't take them. Any citizen of the street, if he appeals to the Constitutional Court, has a certain result; because there is a President of the Republic, because there is a rule of law, because I hope that there are people among us who can have different positions, but who have a conception of the loyalty and of what they do so that they take responsibility for it and are not here to do tricks and tricks behind the backs of Italian citizens. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Bondi and Repetti senators. Congratulations. Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u318	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u319	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u320	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to congratulate my colleague, Mr Chiti, on whom I am deeply esteemed and of whom I always listen with great interest to the style lessons, which I also appreciated when we shared the benches in the Council of Europe together. I believe, however, that each of us has some closet inside which has some skeleton to hide and to hear at this moment from you and your party styling lessons makes me smile. I say this because today, in order to approve this constitutional reform, the Democratic Party has put in place a fairly variable geography in which there are continents adrift, a bit strange continents that no later than a few years ago you yourselves defined with certain words. Its leader Zanda gave a certain definition of our colleague Verdini, who today is your supporter, a collaborator of this large majority. On August 15, 2010, the news of the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" wrote: In any other European democracy - says Luigi Zanda, vice president of the PD Senators - if the central bank expressed such a severe and clear judgment on the president of a bank, the bank would lock itself in the house and would no longer come out, red with shame. But not in Italy and not Verdini. It is understandable why Berlusconi does not ask Verdini to resign as coordinator of the PdL: in the matter of conflict of interest Berlusconi is the teacher and Verdini the student. That's what you said, that's what your Parent Company said. Not later than two days later, on 22 August, when Silvio Berlusconi launched the idea that his colleague Verdini would become the coordinator of the Freedom Teams, the head of the Democratic Party ironized, again according to official reports, that they were the teams of probation. Therefore, Mr Chiti, these were the words with which you spoke to Mr Verdini, who was the devil, who was the person with whom the PD would never do business, with whom the PD would never sit down to talk, not so much about laws, but about constitutional reforms. So, dear colleague, everyone has a closet inside which there is some skeleton, so the style lessons well come from the top of his experience, I always treasure it, but let me point out that perhaps today his intervention has been a little 'over the lines. Style lessons yes, but today style lessons from PD just don't want to take them. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u321	Tomorrow morning we will start with the expression of opinions and I will give no other opportunity to speak than to express opinions on the amendments. I will refer the continuation of the discussion of the constitutional bill No. 1429-B to another session.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u322	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u323	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u324	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, when you listen to us from outside, it happens in this country that Giuseppe Linares, one of the best police officers we have in Italy today, has been pressured to be transferred by a mob suspect. In fact, from some statements of the former chief of the Police Giovanni De Gennaro, reported by the attorney general Domenico Gozzo during the process of appeal against the senator of Forza Italia Antonio D'Ali, would emerge pressure from the latter behind the transfer of Giuseppe Linares, current head center DIA of Naples and previously head of the mobile team of Trapani, engaged in the front line - let us remember - in the capture of the boss Matteo Messina Money. Antonio D'Alì we all know him and we all know his resume. Member of Forza Italia, President of the Province of Trapani, then passed to the NCD. He also supported the Renzi government a while ago. Now he is again in Forza Italia and is now again subject to a trial for external competition in Mafia association. According to the accusation, D'Ali would have contributed to the support and strengthening of Cosa Nostra, making available its economic and institutional resources, as well as maintaining, also for electoral exchange, relations with prominent mob leaders. Not only that: D'Ali worked to remove all those servants of the State who put in trouble What ours in Trapani, at the request of the same mob association. Among these are the prefect Fulvio Sodano and, indeed, Giuseppe Linares. It is truly incredible that such a character can sit in the Senate Chamber today and no one says anything. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). This isn't a court of law! President. - The next item is the report (Doc. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, you can make your speech at the end of the session but you cannot address a senator in this way. You're talking about Dr. Linares, and you're still referring to him. SANTANGELO (M5S). I'm quoting sources, Mr. President. They're not my opinions, they're my sources. Mr President, what I am saying has gone on my own, as a citizen of Trapani and as I have lived as much as the Prefect Sodano has suffered and endured, and I have lived as much as Dr. Linares has suffered from this State! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] All this silence cannot continue and you cannot remain silent at a time like this, since Senator D'Alì can defend himself quietly and can do so in courtrooms. It is unacceptable that Parliament should be silent, and that is why we call for the immediate resignation of Senator D'Alì! Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). This isn't a court of law! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, we cannot turn Parliament into a courtroom.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u325	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u326	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u327	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am unfortunately accustomed to the inventive, even against me, out of place and out of all institutional contexts. I have never replied except in the courtrooms from which I was acquitted. I do not, however, allow us to intervene, on the slopes of a procedural situation, trying to co-arterate the judiciary with me, as has been done by the press and colleagues, contrary to what is said, namely that politics wants to co-arte the judiciary. Here you are trying to influence the judgment of a court, to which I have always recovered, without ever using any opportunity that my office offered me, not even for a simple postponement. From that court I have already been acquitted, and I hope I will also be acquitted in the second stage of judgment. SANTANGELO (M5S). Accepted according to prescription! D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Everything I have heard is completely refuted by the facts. In these days we have listened - unfortunately - also the extemporaneous statements of a prosecutor, which are denied by the same testimonies made by the Chief of Police. Therefore, Mr President, I do not only reject in a decisive and absolutely serene way what is said in this House as not true, but I also ask you, forgive me if I have to do so, not to allow, in addition to newspapers, television and websites, to be able to anticipate also in this Senate of judgments reserved for other institutional bodies and to which I am confident that they will be absolutely serene. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u328	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u329	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u330	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, a few days ago we learned from the press - I am sorry the Minister Giannini is no longer present in the Chamber - that in a Catholic equal institution of vocational training in Monza a 16-year-old boy was forced by the principal to follow the lessons from the hallway, so outside the courtroom, ghettoized by the other comrades because he seems to have as his sole fault that he is a declared homosexual. [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] 20.56 p.m. (Montevecchi followed). The principal, interviewed about the incident, initially exclaimed saying that this boy had posted a naked torso photograph on Instagram... GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). No! Montevecchi (M5S). ...in the company of another boy. It must be considered that the photograph was not of a naked, but only of a naked torso (i.e. from half a lifetime up), but I do not want to go into the merit of the evaluation, but rather on the merit of the principal's motivations. The first motivation the principal gave was that the boy's behavior negatively affects other children and that other children should be protected. After that the same principal said in a statement: We assure you that we do not do sexual discrimination, nor racial discrimination. Our attention - we read in the note - is to the vocational formation of young people, following the dictates of the social pastoral care of the Catholic Church. The possible assessments to be made on this case are, in our opinion, the following. First of all we wonder what the pedagogical choice this principal has adopted to ghettoize the child is. Secondly, we wonder if this principal is aware of the serious problem facing the Italian school, which is that of leaving school, because the little boy said crying to his mother that she will never return to school. Moreover, since the Catholic institute in question is equal and, as such, receives funding from the State, I believe that the Ministry of Education, University and Research should raise the question of what are the criteria on which equal institutions receive State funding. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u331	Senator Montevecchi, you have to conclude because there are many other interventions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u332	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). It's shameful! Montevecchi (M5S). I'm finishing, Madam President. This thing is shameful. Since a few days ago the Ministry of Education, University and Research again dismantled the prerogatives of the National Anti-Racial Discrimination Office (UNAR), breaking the second phase of the Anti-Discrimination Plan and saying that it is adopting an ad hoc project, we ask ourselves what it is and hope that the Ministry of Education, University and Research, instead of dismantling the UNAR, will support it in its most valuable action. [[Applause from the M5S Group, comments by Senators Giovanardi, Formigoni and Gasparri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u333	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that there is no debate on the speeches at the end of the sitting. In addition, Senator Montevecchi, the matter you have dealt with must be the subject of a question, so that there is an intercourse with the Government. AIROLA (M5S). Because we have the usual group of homophobes coming to scream! GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). The spread of images is a crime! It's child pornography!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u334	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u335	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u336	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, yesterday was another particularly important day. Ten representatives of the Regions went to the Court of Cassation in Rome to ask for a referendum... AIROLA (M5S). Homophobes, thieves and corrupts! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, don't come up against your colleagues. Please, Senator Girotto. GIROTTO (M5S). I said that ten Regions have come to the Court of Cassation to open the procedure for requesting a referendum repealing part of Article 35 and Article 38 of the decree so-called unlock Italy, what is also called unlock drills because it facilitates the exploitation of oil and gas resources both inland and at sea. This is the demonstration that even within the PD the base does not follow what the Government emanates, because within these ten Regions there are also PD leaders. It is clear that the Regions do not want this enormous danger that heavily affects (it is a sword of Damocles) tourism, agriculture, fishing because, at the time when an accident - and statistically accidents happen - the economic damage would be enormous. The regions rise against this manoeuvre, the energy bill increases, despite the promises of the President of the Council that it had to decrease by 10 percentage points, when instead the last report of the Authority indicates an increase for the last quarter. Our energy strategy provides for the development of internal resources, but it is clear that the real internal resources we have are alone, wind and geothermal. They are resources that do not cost, do not damage the environment and are democratic, that is they can be used by anyone and not by big corporations. Therefore, the Government has issued a decree that favours the oil and gas lobby; Ten regions rise against this maneuver. The maneuver on which to aim is instead: sun, wind and geothermal. Three sources of democratic energy and equally distributed throughout the national territory. That's what you have to bet on. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u337	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u338	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u339	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business. BULGARRELLI (M5S). Like the order of business? [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u340	We are in session and Senator Gasparri asked to speak on the order of business. You yourself often emphasize its priority over everything else. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u341	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). On several occasions, Mr President, I have also spoken with colleagues and members of the Bureau, both with Members of Parliament and with officials of the Offices, and I have reiterated that this practice of late sitting interventions must be deepened and examined because they cannot become an opportunity to do what they want. We are here in Parliament, where there are rules, questions can be asked, amendments can be tabled, and speeches can be made in the debates. But this practice - which, unfortunately, I do not agree with, but the presidency of the Senate has accepted - of the ventilator that makes everyone at the end of the sitting say what he wants, is not acceptable. You can ask a question; you can't hold criminal trials; you can't report any nonsense that anyone writes. I am also referring to the second subject, and not just the first one that scandalously allowed the President of the Senate to take place; he had to interrupt the intervention that distorted the truth. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u342	Please do not evaluate the President's work in his absence.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u343	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). I call on the presidency of the Senate to reflect in the Bureau on what end-of-session speeches are and what rules should be followed. We have spent days examining the amendments and deciding on their admissibility: everything is regulated here. It's not the Hyde Park Speakers' Corner where every citizen gets on the tape and says what he wants. This speech on the progress of the speeches at the end of the sitting applies to everyone, even to my Group if it has abused them. In my opinion, it cannot continue to be defined for the proper use of these interventions which are absolutely in practice, are not provided for in any form by the Rules of Procedure, and are often extended and used in an abusive and unacceptable manner. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u344	I believe that this issue needs to be addressed in the Bureau because I agree that rules should be laid down because otherwise even those who chair - whether it is the President or the Vice-Presidents - have some difficulty regulating the debate, as there is no need to open debates on issues not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u345	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u346	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u347	Mr Pagliari (PD). Madam President, I would like to give a voice in this House to the parents and children of the Allende di Collecchio kindergarten. In this kindergarten there was the very serious episode of a teacher who mistreated children under the age of three. The investigation is taking place and it seems that other teachers are also being investigated. Unfortunately I know this episode is not the first and will not be the last. I believe that reflection on this issue must be resumed, because the abuse of helpless people, whether they are children or elderly, is too much on the agenda. Therefore, the issue of the responsibility of those who work in the structures and abuse the persons under its control, I believe, must be re-addressed and re-examined from the point of view of criminal discipline. That is why I am committed to presenting a proposal, because the decisions taken in Parliament two years ago I believe that they need reflection. On this issue, the worsening of penalties is a deterrent that must be taken to respect people who are absolutely defenceless. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u348	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u349	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u350	Mr Albano (PD). Madam President, I asked to speak at the end of the sitting on yesterday's clearance of the so-called "No borders" garrison in Ventimiglia. I regret that my colleague, Senator Airola - who is unfortunately not here now - has been disinformed and, like other political parties, has used a situation and omitted a number of information. Meanwhile, we continued to support the absence of the State, when the State was constantly present and for this I thank the Government and the local institutions, together with the Forces of Order. At the end of June, in about ten days, thanks to the Red Cross, the Italian Railway Network and many humanitarian associations, a reception centre was set up, with a point for medical services. This center has also managed the simultaneous presence of 450 people, is still in place and is fully functional. Now you want to pass the version that only in the garrison "No borders" was provided assistance? I am sorry, but it is not only incorrect, but deeply unfair to all the volunteers and citizens of Ventimiglia who have worked hard to help migrants. Respecting the principle of legality is fundamental for democracy and what legality is there in the occupation of a pine forest, in the break-in of a place to be used as a kitchen, in using water and public light, in letting migrants sleep, eat and live in very precarious health conditions? Is this solidarity? After three months of employment, what has been achieved? The Dublin Agreement remains what it was and the shares of asylum seekers to be shared between the different countries of the European Union remain to be defined, although progress has been made as a giant in conceiving the emergency linked to the Syrian situation. I wanted to tell Senator Airola that demagogy is one of the evils of politics, as well as invoking mere use of ruspe. Here in the Italian Parliament, at European and international level, we can try to provide solutions for those who run away from conflicts or are persecuted. The reception of migrants, which is necessary, must nevertheless be linked to the application of the normal rules of civil coexistence and security, also in application of European standards. And the government has it well in mind, unlike many tourists of democracy. [[Applause from Senator Favero.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u351	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u352	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u353	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Madam President, the recent attacks by Renzi and the company on the TG3 are the bleak proof of the idea of democracy and pluralism that the notorious Democratic Party intends to impose on its citizens. A shame, that in other times, when President Grasso himself and all his party comrades flooded television and newspapers, with attacks on Berlusconi in defense of the freedom of journalists and citizens. The story will certainly tell our grandchildren that Berlusconi, in trying to pursue your own goal, at least was less hypocritical. And what is the objective of the Government of the Democratic Party and its brilliant President Renzi? Simply to pretend to be able to control the thinking of Italian citizens? Arriving to attack the TG3 is significant of a dictatorial vision of society and life that clashes with centuries of culture and history of the arts and thought of our beloved Italy, probably also these not touched by the tight studies of formation of renziana to the national championships of the "Wheel of fortune." RAI is something very different, dear gentlemen, it must be something very different: it must be a heritage of democracy and freedom, a constant stimulus to the formation of a free and democratic conscience for all the people living in our country. Since the 5 Star Movement is in Parliament and the Chairmanship of the Supervisory Committee with his friend Roberto Fico, something is probably changing for RAI too, if the PD even gets hurled against its historic news, and we at M5S want things to continue to change. And then, at this very time when you want to celebrate the funeral of our Constitution with this project of hypocritical and discrite reform, we of the M5S would like to remind the government of the agenda I proposed and unanimously approved by the Senate, on the clear transmission on the digital terrestrial of the two channels of Chamber and Senate, today visible only on the satellite platform. I do not think that the government and the current majority are missing the importance of facilitating the guarantee for every citizen to be able to watch Parliament's sessions on television. The direct knowledge of what is happening in Parliament and the behaviour of political forces and individual parliamentarians, particularly at this very sensitive time for our institutions, are, in my opinion, matters of such constitutional importance that we cannot fail to rely on public television. Access to the television vision of parliamentary work is a right of every citizen and must be guaranteed equally to everyone. Moreover, the potential and the diffusion of digital terrestrial also allow for the technical realization of all this, since there is much talk of transparency of the institutions and the opening of the Palaces of power to the citizens. The fear is that this old-youth Renzian government is afraid to let citizens know what it really is doing. Dear President, as you can certainly confirm, respecting the Constitution is not to control TG3, as Renzi wants, but, on the contrary, to guarantee every citizen the right to be able to form a free and conscious opinion on what is happening in the institutions, the latter fundamental and indispensable element for the free conduct of the referendum on the text of institutional reform, which, if this House decides to confirm it, will certainly allow Italian citizens to finally get rid of this hypocritical and incapable Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u354	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u355	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u356	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to speak on the order of business, in order to ask Senator Albano, of the Democratic Party, who unfortunately moved away from this House, for a clarification on what she has done about the events in Ventimiglia. Following on from what my colleague Mr Airola said yesterday that he had asked for the Minister to report, I note that the speech by her colleague seems to be in some way intended to respond to what Mr Airola said about the generous activity of associations and citizens, but the absence of the state machine. I would like to know whether Senator Albano's intervention was essentially to be understood as the ministerial response that did not come to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u357	Excuse me, but this is an end-of-session speech, not on the order of business. As you know, - you were not a member - a debate on the end of the sitting will not begin. At least it is clear that this type of intervention does not allow the possibility of opening a debate on issues not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u358	It is indeed on the order of business. Senator Gasparri had the opportunity - perhaps legitimately - to speak on the order of business in his speech at the end of the sitting, so I think I have the right to do the same thing and to know if there was a ministerial delegation and the response of Senator Albano was that of the Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u359	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u360	On the basis of the same derogation, Senator Malan, I give you the opportunity to speak, but I ask you to be kind enough to follow the criterion that does not open the debate on an item which is not on the agenda. I therefore give you a few seconds to understand what is the reason for your intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u361	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to endorse what Senator Gasparri has said and point out that on the subject of school and the boy who would be excluded from class... THE COURT (PD). Madam President, if you open a debate, I would ask for the floor too! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malan, I have to take your word for it, because I cannot accept the opening of a debate, because other senators on this issue would quite rightly like to speak. So tomorrow, at the end of the sitting, he will register in good time and give his opinion. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you for the honor, because the last time it happened that a person had been removed from the debate, it was the Minister of Justice Filippo Mancuso, a gentleman to whom I honor to be united in this violation... Senator Malan, put the question on the order of business, not the substance of the matter. If you wish to speak on the substance of the matter you must have the courtesy... MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Can you explain to me how you understood that I would intervene on the merits? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Because he did not ask to speak on the order of business. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Excuse me, President Gasparri has spoken on the order of business and I said that I agree with what President Gasparri has said, also because it happens that on certain topics there are some versions that are very controversial: in fact, about what Senator Montevecchi said, about the story of the boy excluded from the lessons - I think we can name the intervention of the senator - there are very different versions. The fact that a principal whose name is very well known, because he cannot escape, is put to the sedan in the Senate House of the Republic, which is a solemn place and not a place to perpetrate violations of the Constitution, as has been done today, is wrong in my opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u362	As far as the method is concerned, I am right, and this confirms the need for matters of importance and delicacy to be included on the agenda and not dealt with in an impromptu way, so that all its senators have the opportunity to intervene and also to have an intercourse with the Government. Thank you and I apologize for taking your word off.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u363	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-514.ana.u364	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Friday, October 2, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21.18.
