ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law 2021, already approved by the House of Deputies. I recall that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report, a preliminary question was rejected, the general discussion took place and the representative of the Government put the question of trust in the single article of the bill, in the text approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u9	Madam President, I will not dwell on the unconstitutional profiles of the decree-law, because these aspects have already been examined and illustrated in the examination of the bill of conversion to the Commission Justice and then here in the Chamber by representatives of all political forces, in a more explicit way by representatives of Forza Italia and the 5 Star Movement, in a more disguised and hypocritical way also by some representatives of the Democratic Party. We are in fact faced with a sort of Colombo egg. Understanding, the ratio of the norm, what is it? It is to execute a judgment of the Constitutional Court, or a suggestion of the Court itself which, in the matter of the judicial seizure of productive activities of strategic national interest, affirms a little salomonically (as often happens, moreover) that Parliament can intervene in this matter. And so it was. Well, there would have been all the urgency for such a measure. But when, in the examination of the bill in the Chamber of Deputies, this basic rule, the main one (the true ratio of the provision), has been added a series of interventions on the procedures of competition, bankruptcy, the figure of the curator and the execution process has been carried out an operation that demeans or weakens the character of urgency that legitimizes and empowers the Government to adopt a decree-law. What, then, has been done? With regard to the rule, certainly I, also on behalf of my Group, can safely declare that I join and share the need for an intervention that would achieve a harmony between the precautionary measure of the judicial seizure by the judge in the case of crimes that concern the safety of workers, on the one hand, the national requirement not to interrupt production, on the other hand, and, in any case, that it would guarantee this contemplation also with the employment profile and the safety of workers. It is possible to adhere to the provision that the precautionary seizure measure does not interrupt the productive activity, while requiring the enterprise and the entrepreneur to adopt a plan, which must then be submitted to the various bodies, to the INAIL and to the court proceeding, in order to remedy, or eliminate, those conditions of danger to the health of the workers. As far as all the other rules are concerned, Mr Vice-Minister, you, in the Justice Commission, have made a statement stating that you are only limiting your speech to the economic and financial profile; but here we are talking about rules that change the legal system and civil procedure. I was the rapporteur of the corporate reform in the House of Deputies in 2003-2004, but the discussions we had with the doctrine were enormous in order to identify the most correct and harmonious paths that could be inserted within the framework of the order. I conclude by saying that we cannot fail to criticize the arrogance with which we are intervening to change the rules of civil procedure and the rules of the executive process, but also by introducing problems that relate to legal profiles of the justice service. We cannot share the attitude of the Government that, by one verse, tries to solve a problem - and perhaps, it succeeds us and in this sense it would have had our assent to the relative problem, as I said, to the seizure of the companies - and, on the other hand, throws into the decree-law a sea of norms, that go to modify the organizational structure, that are written, technically wrong and that we, as Group of Alliance Liberal People-Autonomy, certainly cannot comfort. For these reasons we cannot give our assent to this measure of the Government. [[Applause from Senator Barani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u10	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u11	Madam President, illustrious colleagues, we Conservatives and Reformists acknowledge the Government's willingness to squeeze the parliamentary debate down for the forty-fourth time by means of a vote of confidence. We are very sorry, also because this decree-law was and is of great importance, and through a calm and respectful debate in that normal dialectic - so it should be between the Government and Parliament - significant and positive changes could certainly have been made. There is evidence that only 175 amendments have been tabled by all the groups, certainly all aimed at improving the text and just 39 agendas. There was no difficulty in developing this debate, voting on the amendments and dismissing the text without particular fibrillations, also because this decree-law has as its final date on 29 August. The President-in-Office of the Council, who declares and believes he is a workaholic, would certainly not have let himself be intimidated by doing work in full working time, from here to a few days, in the interests of the nation. He would also have had the opportunity to improve his communication on Twitter and be able to tweet about the efficiency of a Government and a Parliament, which he considers positive, when the Italians began to counter its negative effects. We are among those 63 million Italians who do not follow the tweets of the President of the Council and who, on the contrary, consider concluded, for having completely lost its capacity and its effectiveness, an experience of Government that had started instead with so much trumpeting. That is why we find ourselves voting on a decree with confidence, causing all the amending proposals to lapse. We Conservatives and Reformists felt that we could only table three amendments and two agendas. The issues we have dealt with in these amendments have attracted a lot of attention, especially outside this Parliament, that is to say between those people and those economic sectors that were legitimately concerned with them. Yes, because two of our amendments concerned the compensation of excise duties for which a special treatment, called privilege, had already been obtained in 2012. As the operators know, this privilege has its own logic only when the customer's failure is economically large in order to return the corresponding amount to the supplier. Indeed, in the competitive procedures that end without positive effects - alas - for creditors also in terms of the recovery of taxes already paid by them to the State, these suffer further damage to their companies. We have the obsession, in every legislative intervention, to seek the way to support and help the lives of businesses, because this determines how much work can be done for our citizens. If you had not put your trust in it and if our amendment had been accepted, it would have been possible to compensate for excise duty in exactly the way VAT compensation is already in force. Therefore, excise duties could have been recovered regardless of the economic size of the customer's bankruptcy. This is a very important issue, which concerns above all that energy sector already so penalized in our country by a dramatic tax burden that has no equal in the world. In this way, we could at least have lifted companies in this sector from a twist that we wanted to introduce. After having conquered the particular treatment in 2012, this is removed because obviously it is necessary to penalize the lives of the enterprises and not favor it. Another issue we wanted to address is the telematic process, which is a reality aimed at streamlining proceedings, eliminating the costs of managing archives and, therefore, making the justice machine efficient or at least trying to do so. Our amendment was aimed at the elimination, as far as possible, of the paper that remains, which can be deposited in different forms only if the President of the Court authorizes its filing or in cases where the judge authorizes the filing of procedural documents and documents in non-telematical ways. Madam President, re-introduce the storage of paper, albeit optionally, is now in danger of stopping, or at least slowing down, the virtuous process that information technology is leading to in favour of the management of procedures for more efficient justice. We know - Vice Minister Morando knows very well - that this is one of the elements, together with the most overall data of the uncertainty of the law, that discourages and penalizes those foreign investors that we so invoke, but that do not arrive in our country. If they could be asked the reason, the answer would be the following: In your country the rule of law is not guaranteed, especially from the fiscal point of view, but not even in that procedure, in that just process that every country has the right to have and that you do not have. Yet the reasonable duration of the trials is one of the fundamental principles of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms; among the fundamental freedoms there is also the economic one, the so-called freedom of initiative. However, we only like to apply Community principles when they are good for the bureaucracy system, and when they are good for the citizens, we forget about them. In fact, we come to have different behaviors and forecasts even on the judges of the Court of Auditors. I remember that the judges of the Court of Auditors in staff are 640 but, in July 2015, 427 result in service. Also on the same date of July 2015, the number of staff of the honorary court aggregate for the different roles is 10,227 units, of which 2,793 are vacant. Now, without going into detail about the division between vacancies, between honorary judiciary and accounting judiciary, most of the issues pertaining to the lives of citizens are being dealt with. And so we believe that with this text, when in Article 18 the judges of the Court of Auditors are held in service until the completion of the recruitment procedure in place, but only until 30 June, there is a clear disparity with the ordinary judiciary, which has a different date. The different date of termination, on equal conditions, in our opinion violates some articles of the Constitution, but above all it highlights that there are two different treatments between the ordinary magistrate and the accounting magistrate. That is why the agenda that we proposed asked the Government to adopt a uniform measure, aimed at guaranteeing the honorary accounting judiciary the maintenance in service with the same forecasts as the ordinary one. These were the minimum demands, compared to a large, very extensive decree-law, on which instead the Senate should have and could work, bringing its contribution to the improvement of the text, when instead it was prevented. Yet there was time to work, Madam President, and I said so earlier. But perhaps someone is already on vacation, unlike millions of Italians who this year, because of the constraints they pay because of an economic crisis that no decree is able to reverse and that above all cannot be reversed by a President of the Council like Renzi, will go to pay taxes with that money, instead of going on vacation: they will pay taxes, for that tax pressure that still the other day the Court of Auditors reminded us to be now unbearable and unsustainable for businesses and families. That is why we will certainly vote against this decree. There was an opportunity to improve the lives of businesses, families and citizens and once again it was lost. Is it going to be a tweet from the President of the Council? Maybe so, but of course this won't be enough for the Italians anymore. [[Applause from Senators Airola and Pagnoncelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I am speaking on behalf of the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE to reiterate our substantial support for this decree-law presented by the Government, which has been positively amended by the House of Deputies. The measure intervenes in particular on bankruptcy law, introducing some changes mainly procedural, slimming down the obligations, regulating the times better. It is a significant first step, but it is obvious that the subject, especially because of its complexity and the many different cases that the crisis has caused, would need an overall and much more in-depth review. The Decree-Law also introduces rules to increase the staff of the judicial offices and I hope that this will help to make our proceedings more efficient and, above all, faster. In my speech yesterday, I spoke about some provisions which affect the world of production and, above all, that of small and very small enterprises. I am referring to the procedure of the preventive agreement, which has caused and is causing enormous damage to many healthy companies by other companies that use the agreement not to safeguard business continuity, but simply to delay or circumvent payments to creditors. Too often we find entrepreneurs who at the end of the agreement find themselves with a percentage of reimbursement equal to zero euros. In essence, all too often incompetent or unscrupulous entrepreneurs have laid down their difficulties on serious companies, forcing them to close down or to permanently indebtedness, even with the connivance of accountants and banks and with a certain lightness on the part of the judicial authority. The Chamber of Deputies, also at the request of the self-employed (I remember in particular our agenda approved to the Senate on the Code of Procurement), introduced significant and significant changes, finally imposing a minimum of seriousness and rigour to the concordatory procedure, established with noble purposes to ensure business continuity or avoid the lengthy bankruptcy procedures, but then exploited also to avoid or delay payments and to set up new companies that will probably end the original companies decoctions. This is the forecast, in the agreed liquidators, of a minimum percentage of 20% of the satisfaction of the chirografari credits, of the tiedness in any case of the offered percentage, of the discipline of the competing offers in order to overcome the so-called blocked agreement, with the automaticity of the opening of a competitive procedure. The changes introduced by the House of Deputies are absolutely positive, but they are not enough. We wanted to point out, on an agenda unfortunately fallen for trust, but also in my speech yesterday, some precise and necessary proposals so that the agreed budget can be useful to the objective for which it was created, namely to preserve business continuity, guaranteeing as far as possible the rights of creditors. In cases where the percentage of payment to chirografari is less than the percentage declared in the plan, automatic bankruptcy should be provided in the event of revocation, waiver or non-approval. Companies in agreement should not be allowed to participate in public procurement until the approval measure has been adopted continuously. Provision should be made for the possibility of paying subcontractors directly in the case of companies involved in competitive procedures and having contracts with public bodies. It is necessary to expressly introduce the exclusion of prededuction for professional compensation relating to assistance on agreed blank, then renewed or declared inadmissible. Finally, it is necessary to extend the revocation to any case of agreement in blank which followed the bankruptcy. I also spoke about this yesterday with the representatives of the Government and I hope that these requests, which come strongly from the world of crafts and small and medium-sized enterprises, will have all the consideration they deserve. I believe that their very survival is at stake, especially at a time of crisis and difficulty, which deserves particular attention. For my part, already in the next few days, I will be presenting a comprehensive legislative proposal, which I hope will then be considered positively by Parliament. [[Applause from Senator Berger]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u14	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u15	Mr President, I would like to speak quickly to announce the rejection of the SEL component of the Mixed Group, partly because once again the Government has used the instrument of the urgent decree on a measure that we believe to be heterogeneous, which cannot even be applied in full, since it contains provisions which in turn require a number of implementing decrees. We have the impression that we are legalising on complex matters, but we have not sufficiently assessed the impact they will have on the system that they want to change, and we will have to make further changes, while we should have legislated on system legislation, which will ensure legal certainty. We are talking, in this specific case, about very significant matters, which form part of the Italian business system and the workers involved in the bankruptcy procedures of companies. Among other things, some parts of bankruptcy law are modified by decree-law, while, as we know, the work of the Commissions is under way to prepare proposals for reform, reconnaissance and reorganization of the discipline of insolvency proceedings, established at the legislative office of the Ministry of Justice. I am very quickly on the subject, with five comments, on five points which we consider to be significant, but which we think we could have dealt better if we had been given more time to improve them. The first concerns the agreed budget, a possibility for entrepreneurs to avoid bankruptcy and safeguard productive and employment activity, while at a time marked by a serious economic crisis. The aim of the agreement was to keep our production system alive and to guarantee that production will continue, but the agreed budget has in turn generated other problems, conflicting the two different interests of the debtor and the creditor, who in turn risks being dragged into bankruptcy. It therefore seems to us that the solutions proposed by the Decree-Law are a completely insufficient step to solve the problem of the collection of claims: the alternative offers for the purchase of the company or of its branch, the proposal for an alternative arrangement, the accelerated closure of the bankruptcy procedure, the definition of interim finance are all measures that aim to facilitate the possibility for the creditor to recover at least a part of his debts, but the objective of making the proceedings in competition matters more effective, through the strengthening of the instruments of simplification of the solutions achieved, in our opinion seem too careful to safeguard the interests of the creditors. In fact, we have also proposed a number of amendments aimed at restoring that, where there were competing offers and proposals, one of the decisive elements on which the assessment should be carried out should be that of the company's employment. From our point of view, the criterion should always be the one which, in the light of the evaluation between two offers, is preferable to the one that gives the most employment guarantees, and we regret that this criterion has not been accepted. The second point concerns enforcement procedures. The Decree-Law introduces important innovations in the field of civil enforcement, inspired by the objective of strengthening the mechanisms for the collection of credit, inspired by a clear choice in favour of the creditor with respect to the interests of the debtor. At the same time, it also provides for two measures to protect the debtor's position by introducing a limit to the foreclosure of salaries and pensions and by increasing the maximum number of instalments granted in the event of the foreclosure being converted at the request of the debtor from the present eighteen to thirty-six months. On this too we had tabled amendments to balance the imbalance that the decree operates with regard to creditors and we think that we should have better protected those subjects who are in conditions of objective economic hardship, such as those who are involved in executive procedures involving the first house. In Italy there are several thousand families potentially involved in real estate execution procedures on the first house and these are obviously very delicate and complex real-life situations, which should have been safeguarded and which instead the decree-law - blamefully, in our opinion - does not take into consideration. The third point concerns the deductibility of bank claims. This is a matter that the Government wanted to include in this decree, because obviously the provision is very close to the banking system. It is a rule that deserves careful consideration from Parliament because, while it favours the collection of claims by the banks, it could, however, have serious effects on the market, particularly on the real estate market. There could, in fact, be several negative phenomena, first of all starting from the fact that the companies, once the support of the bank credit has ceased, could be forced to resort to bankruptcy and, on the other hand, the result could be seen opposite to the valorization of the loans in distress, that is, massive sales forced of houses, warehouses and industrial sheds. We believe that there is, in this mechanism, a real gift to the banks - yet again - given also and above all by the rule on the tax discipline of write-downs and losses on loans that, in particular, allow the deductibility in a single year. In short, in essence, it allows the banks to be able to decide whether or not to lose a credit and, therefore, essentially to pay less taxes. The fourth point goes to the interns of justice. A 12-month extension is provided for persons who may be members of the trial office. Of course it's better than nothing, but we don't think it's enough. For some time now, we have been proposing that the Government should give stability to the interns of justice, who are also indispensable for the disposal of the backward. We believe that the twelve-month extension is too small to guarantee the continued efficiency of the administration of justice and that the agenda is too little as a vague commitment by the Government to Parliament, which in some way closes this rule. Finally, with regard to ILVA, a great deal has already been said in the preliminary constitutionality that was presented yesterday by our Parent Company and also in the course of other interventions carried out by Senators of the Mixed Left Group, Ecology and Freedom. I am interested to note only one fact, namely that in every democracy we should have as the essential cornerstone the issue of the balance of powers. There is a very strong concern on our part - and this is certainly not the first time we talk about it - that there is a risk that the executive power will take over the legislative power. We have denounced it so many times in recent months, but unfortunately such matters seem to be untenuous in Parliament, because too little we discuss this vulnus that instead goes through the political debate of our country for many months to this side. For these reasons, the overall judgment we give on this decree-law is negative and, therefore, obviously we will not vote for trust. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u16	She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u17	Madam President, as other Members have already explained, there are some unconstitutional features in this decree-law and I hope that someone will raise them before the Constitutional Court. It is not possible that every decree issued by this Government is unconstitutional. You're not good at doing them, so stop it, once and for all. Article 163-a is introduced to the bankruptcy law by Article 2 of the measure to provide that alternative offers may be submitted for the purchase of the company or of its branch or of specific goods. What's going on? It is actually difficult to explain this to you, because I wonder how many people in this House know what is going on with the reform of the bankruptcy process, since it is not that simple. On 28 January 2015, Minister Orlando appointed a committee responsible, chaired by the President of the First Civil Section of the Court of Cassation, President Rordorf, who had until 31 December 2015 to reform the bankruptcy process. But it had to be done with knowledge of the cause, not so casually, putting the pieces one here and one there. You must realize that you are not good: put patches on patches and make even more mess than we have. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The people don't need this. Companies don't need this. If an entrepreneur in agreement has already made agreements, he should not be deprived of the possibility of giving up his company, because creditors can make alternative offers. So let us give more help to businesses, which - I repeat and will continue to repeat in this House - pay the salary to all of us or give help to creditors, which are then banks? The problem in Italy is that of banks. It is not true that, if these manage to bring to loss the credits they cannot collect, they will give more funding. That's not true. It's a lie. It's a huge lie. [[Applause from Senators Paglini and Bulgarelli]] That is not the case, because they do not give them today. Instead, they need the opportunity to deduct their losses to save themselves, as always. And this is because the great rulers of Italy, including certainly not Prime Minister Renzi, who is a small man, have decided that they must eat us, that the banks must eat the Italian people. I really hope that someone outside raises, for every decree-law you sign, unconstitutionality. You have included everything in this measure and you have postponed to next year the telematic administrative process which should have started on 1 July. You decided it, not someone else. You were able to do that, and who knows why. Do you realize that you are unable to govern this people and the country? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. BOTTICS (M5S). Yes, Madam President. Article 12 provides for the introduction into the Civil Code of Article 2929-a, which defines a simplified form of enforcement, always for the benefit of the creditor. In fact, it is established that the holder of a claim, arising before the injurious act, with an enforceable title, can proceed to enforced execution on the good even in the absence of a final judgment of revocation that declared the ineffectiveness of that act. So give the creditor the opportunity to expropriate the good, before there is the judgment: this you do. [[Senator Bencini's comments.]] Please, partner, I'm talking.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u18	Please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u19	Senator Bottici, I invite you to finish your speech. He's already out of three minutes. BOTTICS (M5S). Yes, ma'am. So this is what you are able to do, that is to put patches on patches, so our country has now become a Harlequin. We already had a Premier who made us deeply ashamed with the whole world years ago. And, then, I ask you, please, to give up the seats and finally give the Italian people a chance to rise and show the whole world that Italians are good people. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u20	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u23	FALANGA (AL-A). Madam President, I have listened to the speech by my colleague, the representative of the 5 Star Movement, and I share one of the last points she has made. I am referring to the fact that this measure is intended to introduce the possibility of discussing and attacking a good even before there is a judgment passed in court. Perhaps it has escaped the colleague that that good - beware - is not in the availability and ownership of the debtor: we go, that is, to attack an asset that is owned by a third party, that has acquired that good and that presumably by the revoking action will fall back into the debtor's assets. For this reason, in my previous speech on the measure, I referred to the efforts and work that, as rapporteur for the reform of company law in the Chamber, during the 14th legislature (2001-2006), I had to put in place to carry out a reform that was systematic, organic and aimed at adapting the rules of company law and bankruptcy law of 1942. Therefore, the modification of those rules was necessary in order to adapt them to the evolution of the times and to the international economic, banking and commercial system. And this was done in the light of the studies offered by the entire Italian doctrine. You will remember the famous Commission Vaccarella, Arieta, Constantine, all doctrinators who, in the matter of modifying the reform of company law, gave their contribution. The purpose of the decree-law before us today is to resolve the problem of the ILVA in Taranto and - as I said just now - to implement the suggestion of the Constitutional Court, according to which it is necessary to intervene when there is a precautionary measure of the judicial authority to contest - says the Court - the need to implement a measure of the judge with that of guaranteeing the employment and safety of workers. Mr Deputy Minister, if the Government had limited itself to this measure, I believe, in all honesty, that, regardless of the determinations to which the Group to which I belong would have come, I would have voted in favour. But in this case we take the opportunity of a need - I would say urgent - only to introduce written rules, and the previous colleague highlighted one. Someone from the Government and its legislative offices must explain to me how it is possible to imagine that the creditor, with the act of precept, must warn the debtor that he can avail himself of the agreements of assisted negotiation. Does any of you know that the precept has a limited duration in time for its effectiveness? And, if the debtor declares that he wants to join the agreement, or that he wants to initiate the agreement procedure, does the effectiveness of this precept remain suspended? You didn't say that. If it stays suspended, you have betrayed the ratio of the norm that wants an acceleration of the procedures in order to adapt them to the times of the other European countries. In such a case, with a delaying activity, the debtor declares that he wants to accede to the agreement, which, however, is not achieved. We are, therefore, only apparently faced with details that will end up disturbing the Supreme Court and the judges of merit. You have to stop it. We legislators must stop entrusting the judicial authority with the exact interpretation of the rule for our inability to produce clear rules. That's the point. I do not know if we make them unclear because we want to free ourselves from the weight of responsibility for a clear and clear decision or if we want to remain in a grey area that allows ambiguity. I must also mention the agendas presented by my colleagues in the Democratic Party. For example, the agenda presented by colleagues Lumia, Capacchione and others who commit the Government, for the purposes of tax relief and to encourage procedures for defining the procedure, to raise the 250 euros expected to a higher figure. In fact, these agendas - in my opinion - could also be avoided. It is better to be silent, as the highly authoritative Deputy Minister Morando did in the Commission when, at the beginning of his speech, he said that he would intervene only in so far as he kept to the contents of the measure's economic and fiscal nature and nothing else. But the Commission has to deal with this, given that the central issue was the change. Only apparently the issue was the question of ILVA, but basically the competition procedures were changed. It is said that we realise a competitive profile, admitting, for creditors who exceed with their credit the 10% measure, the possibility of presenting a competitive agreement. Do you understand what this means? We are faced with an absurd measure, of which, however, I share some norms, such as those relating to the national register of curators, the requirements of the curator, the acceleration of the process and the inclusion of the staff of the former Provinces (they are human resources). These are all interventions that I share. But why should we not have more fruitful cooperation with Parliament, in order to avoid certain errors - you will allow me to say with absolute tranquillity - even of a technical nature? There are, in fact, mistakes for which I wonder: but what does the legislative office of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers do? It is an office governed by a lady who - for goodness sake - will have directed the Florentine traffic in the most exalted way [[Applause from Senator Bottici]] , but that has little to do with the provisions of the law. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Are we gonna say this or not? And let no one offend me, because I am not offended when they accuse me of being ignorant in a given matter or subject. In fact, I have the awareness that I have the knowledge of other things that the interlocutor who calls me ignorant probably does not know. There is no offence, therefore, but the measures must be corrected, drafted and drafted in such a way as not to lend itself, then, to disturbances at the Constitutional Court or other subjects.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u24	Senator Falanga, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u25	FALANGA (AL-A). I will conclude by returning to the main topic, on which I was encouraged by the intervention of my colleague of the 5 Star Movement. Does the poor owner of the property not see the constitutional right of ownership restricted and compressed? Will he not, perhaps, appeal to the Constitutional Court, claiming that he has been attacked by an asset, his right to property, in the absence of a judicial order? Then, on behalf of the Group of Liberal People's Alliance, we cannot express trust, even with the characteristic of the responsibility that it has accompanied, accompanies and will accompany the work of our Group. In this case we are forced to say: Lords of the Government, you cannot ask for confidence in such a measure. I would have even voted for confidence in a measure which had only dealt with the subject of Ilva. But we cannot vote for confidence in a measure which has to change the legal rules of bankruptcy and of the executive process, with interventions that have neither head nor tail. Yesterday I compared myself in this matter with some doctrinary, who did not know how to answer my questions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude. He's four minutes past his time. FALANGA (AL-A). I'm done. "What must I tell you, dear Cyrus?" So I was told. And that is the same thing that I say to you: gentlemen, what should I say to you? I simply say that we do not vote for trust. [[Applause from Senator Pagnoncelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u28	ZIZZA (CRI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, with the decree-law under consideration today, you have taken action to adopt rules on bankruptcy, civil, procedural and civil matters, including the amendment of the implementing rules of the Code of Civil Procedure. In short, you wanted to improve the judicial system and instead you have given us, as often happens, a decree that carries a theme that, with these subjects, has little to do with it. You thought very well to include a tax rule in a measure that concerns justice. And already: the umpteenth gift to the banks, those for which this majority continues to bow its gaze, remaining condescending to the wishes of the bankers. We remember very well the story "Banca Italia," the gift granted that has always produced billions to the usual friends, your friends. As we remember well the tax discount of 17 billion made two years ago in the law of stability, always to the same friends, your friends. And so, not content, from now on, the banks will be able to deduct their deteriorated loans in a single year. What was the urgent need to adapt quickly to this matter? Some doubt comes to us. The beauty of this government, Madam President, is that gifts are always one-way. The government gives gifts to banks, as in this case, since we are talking about about about six billion euros (this should be the figure of the new tax discount that will be developed). In this measure there is no rule that can guarantee greater commitment by credit institutions in support of households. There is no willingness to lend credit to companies to stimulate investment and productivity. In short, of the economic recovery, the real one and not the one that President Renzi tells every day, you can see nothing. So in this fantastic decree-law, you have inserted several pieces to lengthen the stock, foreign pieces among them, such as the excavation of the blast furnace of Ilva, the eighth measure that goes in this direction. We're playing the little chemist. You have broken down the last decree to put it into this measure without thinking of making serious investments, because the misery you have begged us for such a serious problem is even insufficient to guarantee the provisions on integrated environmental authorisation. I repeat that no serious investment, no effort to invest has been made, but you have not even been able to bring back the Riva family's money. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, on this measure, which you have proposed to us with the requirements of necessity and urgency, the revision of the retirement age of judicial staff is so urgent that there is time until 31 December 2016, when an ad hoc decree could be adopted instead. Madam President, the only thing for which we have found the need and urgency for the good of the country is the importance of having a government that can guarantee families and workers; a government that can contribute to economic recovery by supporting companies in development, encouraging investments and productivity: in short, everything that President Renzi has not yet done. This measure, if only a peaceful parliamentary debate could have been held - not accompanied by yet another vote of confidence imposed by the haste to close shop - could have improved. And we all, including our group, had amendments that could improve it. Or, again, think of the forecast of equal dignity to the magistrates for the purposes of the retirement of the accounting and honorary magistrates in relation to the provisions of the decree for the ordinary judiciary. For all these reasons and for many others, the Group of Conservatives and Reformists will speak against the question of trust. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u31	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, Mr Morando, ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that the pursuit of perfection is an enemy of good and, therefore, we will vote for the government's confidence in this measure. This is an expected, necessary and urgent measure in order to try to put our country, for the part that concerns in particular the judicial system, in line with the other more advanced countries in the field of justice that concerns the economy and, in particular, the critical situations, the failures and the agreed preventive. We try, therefore, to include our country - as I said before - among those who know how to deal with, with appropriate tools and quickly, the critical situations that cannot wait for the times of a bureaucracy and a cumbersome, complex and uncertain process. So, from this point of view, we express our positive judgment, although perhaps something more could be done. But, in the face of the impellence of serious situations, such as that of the Ilva and many other Italian companies that need a response regarding the critical issues that are experiencing, we cannot fail our contribution and positive vote. Of course, more could be done and, perhaps, better could be done. There are elements that are still uncertain from the point of view of evaluation. Perhaps it will take time to assess their impacts in concrete situations. In any case, it is an important step forward and then, using an old adage for which it is rather better than nothing, our vote for this measure will not fail. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u34	DE PIN (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, months ago Renzi had promised the end of the perfect bicameralism, saying that he wanted to be the last President of the Council to ask for confidence in this House. Well, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, today I wish you every success in your 50th confidence in Parliament. It is a primacy that is yours by right, as it is up to this Parliament the negative record for not being able to say no for at least fifty times on fundamental measures for the country: tax decrees, anti-crisis, incentives, safety, health, school, interceptions, fiscal shield, development, local authorities and - today - reform of competition procedures, in particular with the rules on failures and even on Ilva, inserted in texts so full-bodied that it is certainly easier to write than to read with an accomplished sense. Thank you, Mr President, for cutting off, suffocating, gagging and virtually suppressing the political debate, particularly in the Senate of the Republic. This House, thanks to this obvious, repeated and clumsy acquiescence given to every request, stands for constitutional uselessness, without suffering too much this ethical and political euthanasia. Nothing is taken for granted because what is obvious is not taken for granted. But you, Mr President, on this birthday of unconstitutionality are baptizing the systematic devastation of the judicial system, with the painless and surreptitious grafting of several foreign bodies into the ill-fated body of law, with the stated intention of wanting to reform it, while it is simply cast and now unable to move in directions other than those you want. This acquiescence is painful in its so repetitive and resigned habit. It is tragic this institutional twilight dyed with red velvets while dancing on the stunned notes of the Florentine piper. The Grimm brothers couldn't have done better. She now leads a Senate, enchanted by the thousand promises she will not keep, to her sure epilogue and receives votes, trusts, insults and slaps without blinking, with that immobile expression typical of wooden puppets. It seems that it has not been well understood in this House that at least two hundred promises must be met by at least one hundred disappointments for technical reasons and institutional space. It seems that only tomorrow is for the first time a certainty, since today is desperate and lost. Everything seems to change as it continues to be and remain terribly like itself. She reformates the form, never the substance: grafts, removes and sews, but in the end she makes up well imperishable legislative bodies and therefore demands - does not ask - the fiftieth trust. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, distort and distort every principle of good governance and, if necessary, turn Members into Councillors and, if you do not succeed, merge them into a unique and certainly hybrid figure: a little councilman and a little senator, practically of the "assemblers." The genetically modified samplery has produced "gasparred" reforms, delocalised and scattered provinces, broken schools and broken roads. He even managed to hurt the health system to death. Only fifty trusts and already all these results: it manages to make the Monti Government pale, which has sold out our sovereignty. When we arrive at a hundred, we will have exhausted all the trust we can in the institutions, and we will have finally grasped the profound sense of the institutional devastation that you have led with admirable consistency to the extreme. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, add to your foreclosures, increase your pay and foreclosures, make the purchase of the thousands of foreclosures of unarmed citizens less expensive, or improve the judicial system, which is intended as a civic guillotine for exhausted citizens, but longer debtors, with legal certainty and a credit life for all Italians. They are all at risk of becoming debtors forever, but with the guarantee of installment: more and more installments, homes foreclosed at ever lower prices, certain sales, minimum but quick receipts and all poorer. Congratulations, President, to you and to all the Italians who did not vote for you. A hundred of these days, the last of this confused and lost Assembly, which gives confidence to the programmatic breakdown that you command. Then there is the theme of the ILVA, that is the scandal in the scandal, the eco-monster that continues to kill its workers, liquified in a surreal context that survives by decree, hostage of banks and creditors, authorized by law to pollute and immunized to all judicial measures. It is the first application of that infamous adverb on the eco-reactors. Here I want to remember: abusively. I repeat: abusively. Today ILVA no longer pollutes by law, because it is simply allowed to do so and therefore there is no crime. All this despite the struggles of the Greens, to which I belong, fought at local and national level, the judicial actions, the kidnappings, the authorisations not granted, the requests for adaptation cumulative or crushable according to the needs, so that the sum and the political figure are always the ones desired. We are faced with differences, delays and extensions that do not take into account the public health and safety of workers, while they bitterly confirm that pollution levels are certainly illegal: illegal but not abusive, at least for a year, or perhaps for a year again and again, infinitely. The picture of Renzi's reforms is beginning to be clearer and the term "abusely" more comprehensive. You, President Renzi, who with reasoned arrogance imposed enormous sacrifices on the country, injected deceit and lied repeatedly and shamelessly, would deserve at least to share the fate of the tarantinos, forced by your decrees to breathe the poisons. The contingency, on the other hand, helps it to restore majorities, to compress dissent and to shape groups, while it enchants Parliament triumphantly. All of this, Mr President, cannot deserve my confidence and less than ever the vote in favour of the Greens, who will oppose its discredited design in and out of the House, with all the strength available. That is why I shall be voting against this measure. [[Applause from Senator Casaletto.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u37	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, we are faced with yet another measure in the field of justice which is being dealt with by the system of the decree-law, which - as we have also said in the general debate - is absolutely harmful and harmful to the whole system of the judiciary. Talking about a decree-law on these rules means imposing times that certainly do not allow an in-depth analysis of a subject such as that contained in this measure (the matter of bankruptcy law and civil enforcement). We have already pointed out, when we proposed the question of constitutionality, that there are not even the requirements of necessity and urgency. If it is considered that it is necessary to innovate on the trial, however there are certainly no extremes for a decree-law to be issued. We are talking, among other things, about a subject, the one dealt with by the decree, which is absolutely uneven, as in the case of bankruptcy law, which has been amended at least three times over the last four years. We are also talking about civil enforcement - another very sensitive issue - without allowing us all, both in the Commission and in this House, to eliminate certain difficulties and certain steps that raise many concerns. Then think that civil execution is that part of the trial that, when an attorney finds himself forced to face it, means that the cause is lost. When you have to act in execution, it means having to get to the extreme ratio of proceeding with an iter, among other things, laborious, extremely expensive and sometimes has no positive effects. It is also regrettable that this Government wanted to use this instrument of taxation - not in the sense of that adjective but in the sense that it requires it - bearing in mind that the House already has a measure under consideration by the Commission containing a delegation to the Government for the efficiency of the civil process. These legislative measures could very well be included in this measure and the possibility of including others could perhaps be considered. We in the Group of the North League, for example, presented in the Commission's amendment the question of the impeccability of the first house, an issue already under consideration by the Committee on Justice in the Senate, with draft laws that we believe should be deepened, because they are really very interesting. We had proposed interventions to encourage alternative measures to the trial, since we have a problem of overloading the judicial roles; there was this possibility, since an article of the decree-law provides a very modest incentive, with a tax credit really ridiculous, when we instead proposed a much more effective one. In fact, gentlemen, when we talk about problems and issues such as those of justice, these must be dealt with with with rules that can be easily interpreted, that must become part of and be assimilated to the order. On the other hand, if we continue to intervene in a discontinuous way, we create a fracture in the same system, as well as a difficulty in the interpretation and application by the operators themselves of the law. In this measure we find absolutely uneven and confused interventions, ranging from the right of bankruptcy to the right of civil execution; then we talk about the judiciary and talk about TAR. It is even possible to foresee the repeal of a repeal, as in the case of the abolition of the sites of the TAR, on which we had expressed absolute doubts. We are now faced with a concrete difficulty on the part of the Government itself and we are trying to remedy the problem with this measure. Then there is a rule, in this complex, such as the one concerning the ILVA, on which we cannot hide by now. It is a rule that intervenes on time, to the face of the general and abstract, providing for a legal excapitation. It is therefore a measure of the judiciary on which the legislator has to intervene, not least with difficulty. We are in fact talking about the ILVA, that is, a structure on which Renzi decided to make an investment and to play a card. However, it must be realised that this structure is working in complete disregard of the rules on safety at work and that a rule such as the one contained in the measure under consideration is reached, which provides for a deadline - among other things quite ridiculous and I do not know how much will be respected - to introduce procedures and systems, even provisional ones, aimed at protecting these workers. Perhaps we are fooling ourselves: perhaps the ILVA really represents a typical case of Italianity. When you arrive at such a situation, trying to heal a structure like this becomes a task - alas - less attainable: perhaps issues such as these should be addressed much further upstream. Therefore, in the measure we are talking about TAR, ILVA, but also about the telematic civil process: we cannot talk about such disparate issues in the same measure. With regard to the telematic process, I recall that it should have been a remedy for the bureaucratic and administrative management system of the process. With all the problems that exist in the gates and whatever else, it seemed that it could be a goal to pursue, a resource and the solution of the problems, but the norm contained in the measure under consideration virtually nullifies the very advantages of the telematic process. In fact, if we are forced to deposit paper again, what is the use of the telematic process, if at the same time we use the old system, which also requires stationery staff, who first finds himself having to develop the telematic process and then must arrange the deposits? In the end, it doesn't come to anything. In the cauldron of the decree-law we find another surprising norm: at a time like the current one, when we have a problem of loads and of staff in the courts, in which we have also talked about the reform of the judicial geography and when we have come to have major problems of management and disposal of the backward, it is thought well to foresee an extraordinary application of the magistrates for the emergency connected to the procedures of recognition of refugee status. So let's go to subtract the judiciary, which could operate for families, for businesses, applying to family law procedures and procedures that concern Italians, to try to face a situation that falsely is said to be emerging, because it is now becoming systematic and pathological. There is a problem of management of the reception and of the post - reception, which have gone absolutely tilt, but what is expected is instead an extraordinary application of magistrates. Gentlemen, we have data from the Milan court: in 2013 there were twenty appeals concerning the recognition of the status of asylum seekers; in 2014 these appeals were 630 and in 2015 it is assumed that we can even reach 3,500 appeals, but it is established that 90% of them are not accepted. It is an improbable activity, which weighs on the judicial system, to have absolutely derisory results. An application, as they say, of a judiciary on a subject in which, in the end, we find ourselves having 90% of the actions rejected. Not to mention, among other things, this subtraction, which we consider absolutely unfair, personal to what is true litigation, to a problem of Italian justice, which is well known to the Ministry, to our minister Orlando and to all, and then finally arrive with measures such as this decree-law that does not intervene on justice, but only goes to create a chaos. In the face of a mediocre measure, we adopt a system of authority, in fact we are talking about the forty-fourth trust that this Government has asked for, on which we absolutely cannot express ourselves in a favourable way, because we will never be able to give confidence. On the contrary, we urge that we avoid again using an instrument which should be an extraordinary instrument and which is becoming an ordinary procedure. I, together with my colleagues, ask you to respect this House and the possibility that Parliament and its Members will actually do their work, which is to legislate and not to obey the Government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u40	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Madam President, the aspects relating to the method have already been widely underlined and it is clear that this decree-law is unconstitutional, which is heterogeneous and not urgent, except for the most polluted part, which would be that of the ILVA, which could really be spared. On the substance, the measure is complicated and contradictory, not only in appearance, but in many ways also in concrete terms. One part specifically concerns justice and I am pleased that the Undersecretary is present, because I would like to make a parallel with what Minister Orlando said with great pride in January in his report on justice: now here, in filigree, we find a whole series of elements that are the admission - which of course, however, must disappear from the spotlight - of the inability to really invest in the realization, above all, of that organizational aspect of justice that has been repeatedly stressed as the first real big problem. Let us think only of the case of the telematic process: the telematic process would have required investments in instrumentation and training and of course these investments that should have come have not arrived, so now we find ourselves at the top of the paper copy, an admission of inability. Another aspect that I would like to highlight is that for a long time it has been asked to increase and improve the staff of justice and the affair of trainees is not simply perceived as half-full or half-empty glass. Senator Lo Giudice congratulated on the fact that the trainees had been given the opportunity to do an extra year, but if you go to see what really happens, you can see that these trainees who carried out their internship that obviously, in the common thought, should have been a sort of premise, a tool to give more concrete skills, once they finished their internship, they could legitimately think of seeing a Ministry that finally made the recruitments and provided for the stabilization of all the necessary personnel. On the other hand, trainees are given the opportunity to make an extra year, with a very rich scholarship - in the fourth year of work in an administration - of 400 euros per month. This for me is the flash of a film already seen, the construction of a battalion of precarious that I saw build in the school and I saw it build through a whole series of vain promises, such as that of obtaining preferential titles for competitions, but what? The doubt is that what happened to the school is happening to justice. In addition to these matters relating to justice, I would also like to focus on another aspect, because in this measure there are some elements that have been advertised - and rightly so - as aid to banks and during the general discussion I asked Vice Minister Morando questions. Deputy Minister Morando has also kindly spent himself in the illustration, also very didactic - I must say the truth - and for me very useful, of how important it was for him to share the credit in this country. Since I'm not an expert on the specific sector, I've studied this to try and figure out exactly how banks are helping themselves. Not having the time to enter for long, I would like to recall an aspect that is particularly close to my heart, because it also concerns an economic reality like that of my Region. We see that the issue of the agreement is being addressed, which is certainly a tool used for companies in crisis. The agreed liquidation in continuity is essentially not touched, on the contrary it is favored, because the possibility of a greater credit is offered (but let's remember that this also becomes an instrument of aid for the credit institutions). The competitive arrangement is introduced and the liquidation agreement is severely limited. Interesting aspects are varied. First of all, professionals, who already have a criminal responsibility that is thus further extended, are given the task of attesting the 40% guarantee of chirografari creditors. Meanwhile, in this way the State de facto abdicates to its control functions and transfers control to others. This does not only happen here, but also in the liquidation agreement, where the ability to analyse the situation is strengthened, specifying all the information that the judicial commissioner must give, including the greatest benefits that would be if, instead of proceeding with the agreement, a failure were to occur. The Commissioner is also asked to give guarantees to quantify creditors and their ability to satisfy creditors. It is clear that professionals are assigned a number of important, complex and delicate tasks. We will have to see if these professionals will be able to do so; we will have to see what tools they will have to equip themselves to do so; we will have to see who will be able to do this. Let's move on to the competitive arrangement. Let us remember that the arrangement is a tool used by companies in a difficult phase, not in an insolvency phase. The competitive arrangement means that someone can make the proposal for a different arrangement plan from that made by the entrepreneur. Let's get this straight. The creditors are divided between more structured creditors, who certainly have the competences and greater professionalism within them in order to intervene and make proposals of agreement, and then a whole series of other creditors, that are mainly the suppliers, that is subjects that do not have these abilities, and to which moreover in the agreement has been removed the faculty of silence- consent cutting them out from the possibility of being involved in the process of definition of the agreement. So who's easier? Who's being helped? Who will be able to make these proposals? Of course, it's the banks. It is clear what the Government's view of the agreement is about, that is, as some colleagues have already pointed out, the agreement is perceived as an instrument used by the slymen who, instead of declaring bankruptcy, make procedures of agreement to avoid all the negative aspects in addition to which there are within the bankruptcy. Apart from the fact that this is not the case at all, because not all those who engage in the agreed procedure are dishonest entrepreneurs - there is clearly a negative prejudice on entrepreneurs, since some choose this procedure to maintain their profile as entrepreneurs anyway and because everything would rather than fail - I would also like to add something else, namely that it is a sign of the state that withdraws. Discovering the game of those who do this agreed not to fail, with all the advantages that would then derive, cannot be placed - as is done with this provision - on the professional who in sixty days should do alone, without all the structures that should be guaranteed, what the Financial Guard does in years of work with all the apparatus. At this point, it would have been expected that the measure to be coherent would have the merit of greater integration and the greater presence of the State in supporting the activities of these economic operators with regard to the financial administration and the police. It's not like that. I invite you to conclude, Senator. MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). I would ask you for an extra minute, Mr President, since we are early. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I've already given you an extra minute; we're on the second, then I'll have to take your word for it. MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). A number of creditors will be cut off from the choice of route to be undertaken. It is clear that this is a political choice, but it is not acceptable for many reasons. First of all, there is unfavorable prejudice to entrepreneurs in crisis, while there is favourable prejudice to credit institutions. As a privileged interlocutor, the creditor who is more professionally equipped and who, in fact, always appears to be - in this measure as in the others - the one most dear to the Commission, we have seen it over and over again. However, this is not what we believe the state must do in crisis situations; rather, it must be able to pursue those who adopt procedures in a scam-like way, but then putting everyone in a position to interact in a balanced way. We do not miss an opportunity to favour the strong powers, those of finance, among other things in a crisis situation that has been created and mismanaged precisely by them, first leaders, who, moreover, Deputy Minister Morando, are not asked anything at all, adopting here a hybrid model, which is the most surprising and contradictory thing. Nothing is asked because it cannot be asked: the model is hybrid because there is no free market, but rather a scenario of children and stepbrothers, in which privileges and preferential routes are granted to some - those who have the blackmailing economic and political power to ask and impose - and others are neglected, such as small entrepreneurs, craftsmen, workers - be they the entrepreneurs or suppliers of the company in crisis - that today in this measure are once more put on the margins. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator, finish. MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Madam President, since it is the forty-fourth trust, please allow me to express all my annoyance. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mussini, there is a problem of respect for the times: you are in the 15th minute. I therefore invite you to respect, like all the others, the times that have been assigned to you. MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). A fidelistic attitude that of Senator Marino: the banks will have to show that they deserve this aid. In fact, the banks themselves. This faith doesn't warm our hearts at all, because we will have to count on the appreciation of the banks that for years, not only do they not respond when the real economy beats at their door, but that previously they have competed in the debacle, making credit in a careless and indiscriminate way, thinking of cashing out with interest rates that the judgments say that they were interest rates... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u41	Senator Mussini, if you wish, the Presidency authorizes you to hand over the remainder of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u42	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u45	Mr Albertini (AP-NCD-UDC) Madam President, we declare our support for this measure, even though the vote of confidence might exempt us from entering into details of merit for its approval, as it is all-inclusive of the confidence that my Group gives to the Government. This is not the case, however, to avoid making some remarks, even if I will not do so analytically because, after hours of discussion, the measure as a whole has been analysed, with the pros and cons, in a very precise manner. I will therefore only express framework concepts by not entering, if not in a single position, specific points. When Minister Orlando presented the results of his period of government, drawing inspiration from the conducts adopted for further improvement, he made among other observations the following, which leaves everyone surprised and which leads to consider this urgent and necessary measure. A random, very indeterminate numerical circumstance was represented. It was said that the litigation, the picture of incongruity - let's say - of non-knowledge, the economic blockade concerning the competitive and bankruptcy situations of our country was based on values of tangible and intangible assets from 17 to 45 billion euros. Already the indeterminate nature of such massive figures indicates how necessary and appropriate it is to take action to remedy a situation that cannot even be defined. Therefore this provision has, necessarily also for these reasons, the characteristics of urgency and necessity that expresses the very quality of the provision - the decree-law - and it is necessary that it be voted with conviction and determination because it intervenes on very dedicated and complex scenarios of our Country: the justice system, with all its criticalities, and the world of the enterprises that suffer more than others, being moreover also the most important reason in our economic condition of the global crisis. We are intervening with this measure, not only in bankruptcy but also in collaboration, with rather analytical measures, also on the civil process and on the procedure, that is, on civil procedural law. This measure is son, in some ways, also of Decree-Law No. 132 of 2014 which had determined the transfers in arbitration of many civil proceedings pending to reduce the extent and number of them; it provides facilities for the finding of financial resources for entrepreneurs in crisis in order to avoid the irreparable moment of bankruptcy, improves the efficiency of the procedures of enforced execution and also induces the modernization of the forms of advertising in order to bring to the knowledge of the assets that can be valued in order to avoid, precisely, closing procedures in bankruptcy and to put on the market goods that the enterprises can hesitate to compensate their economic chasms if they are in crisis situations. All this is done through the introduction of a national telematic portal that can widen the spectrum of interest to the purchase of these goods even beyond the national offices, while not preventing, indeed allowing, such advertising to be made also in the local media that are perhaps more attentive and sensitive than others to grasp the economic interests of the territory. Competition and enforcement procedures are also improved. There are tax measures that tend to facilitate voluntary arbitration jurisdiction measures, in order to reduce, as was said, the size and number of pending civil processes. The electronic process is also being released in the course of accounting justice. 11:14 a.m. (Following ALBERTINI). There is also a rule on which I am referring, because I believe it is extremely important, which assumes a very delicate framework of relationship between the function of the judiciary and the functions of the executive and the legislative power, that which allows the continuation of business activities in the establishments where it has been declared, with a precautionary measure of judicial activity, the seizure of the artifacts and installations when the national interest of the enterprise makes it necessary and when the precautionary measure finds its reason in interventions on the safety and health of workers. With this rule, which allows the continuation of activity, there is a rational and appropriate balance between interests, all deserving of protection: productive activity, employment, the protection of employment, health and the protection of places of work. The twelve months that are allowed to the enterprise in order to continue the activity, despite the presence of a precautionary seizure, where this present a plan inherent to eliminate the same causal ones that have determined the precautionary intervention of seizure, is a form of rationality and an opportune intervention of balancing of interests. On this point, some of my colleagues - and also the judiciary itself - have raised questions of constitutionality. I refer here only and only - in my view, this argument is sufficient to me to see, in order to tacitize these polemics - the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2013, No 85, in which the legitimacy, even the necessity, of the intervention of the legislator is attested in order to allow the productive activity compatible with the precautionary measures, with the conditions that I have briefly described. There are also other measures concerning the efficiency of justice, the issue of trainees and their recovery. With regard to the emergency of immigration, the Supreme Council of the judiciary has the power to detach up to twenty magistrates to the territories and districts where the phenomenon of refugee control and the expansion of emigration makes legal protection more necessary. Therefore, a significant proportion of judicial professionalism is devolved to these functions, i.e. to the consideration of the legal status of refugee. Finally, there is the unified discipline for pensions of the entire judiciary, both honorary and of the various articulations of the judiciary, in favour of a generational replacement. In short, a set of measures that can be below our wishes and perhaps even the needs that we would like to meet, but immensely better than the bankruptcy state - it is the case to say - in which we found ourselves with the numbers of the litigation and the economic blockade of the system with reference to the precautionary procedures. This is a necessary and urgent step, and we are convinced of our justified confidence. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u48	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, last year I spoke in an explanation of vote precisely on the occasion of the government's confidence in a decree-law. On that occasion I coined the definition of "beach trust": I meant the confidence that is placed by the Government on a measure, not so much to avoid its decadence, but to allow parliamentarians to go to the sea. Today history repeats itself identical, because this decree-law expires at the end of August. So there would be plenty of time to discuss it, to amend it, and to improve it. But an in-depth debate on this decree-law would allow the country to gain a greater awareness of its scope. It is better, therefore, by majority and government, that we talk about it as little as possible; better to close the debate with confidence, taking advantage of seasonal distraction, summer; better to devote the next few weeks to going to the sea than to improve this decree. The 5 Star Movement, you know, will vote against the confidence of this Government for obvious political reasons, but also because we do not share, on the substance, many of the main points of the measure that we are going to vote on. First of all, it is only the last gift to the banks, at least for now, made by Matteo Renzi. In practice, this decree-law allows banks to deduct from their balance sheets, in a single year, losses of outstanding claims. Think that only up to about a year and a half ago they could do so, but only in eighteen years. Then Letta brought the term to five years and now Renzi brings it to a single year. It would come to say, " champagne " if we were bankers. Bank suffering is growing by 20 billion a year. If they were all put at a loss, this initiative would cost us seven billion. Of course, the decree-law also provides for optimistic compensatory measures. But they're optimistic, in fact. To better understand, with the Letta and Renzi Governments this is happening: do you know when a customer does not pay you, and you, owners of a small company, risk seeing the work of a lifetime go to waste? Think what a wonder it could be if that credit could take him into tax deduction, maybe all at once. But that's not possible. It is not possible for companies, it is not possible for families, it is not possible for ordinary citizens, but for banks it is. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I mean, here we go again. We are witnessing yet another present to the banks. So far we've counted five. The first was the 7.5 billion of the IMU-Bankitalia decree, plus the large annual dividends of almost half a billion euros distributed to the banks. The second was the attempt - fortunately only one attempt - to bring down the rules on anatomy. The third is the State guarantee on derivatives. The fourth is the reduction, made by the Letta Government, from eighteen to five years for the deduction of losses. The fifth was the privatization of the people. And now comes the maxi offer to deduct losses and thus reduce taxes due on unpaid loans. The excuse is always the same and we have heard it many times: to give more opportunities to banks to give credit to businesses and families. But if it is true that this measure is so padded with good intentions, then why does the measure itself not expressly provide for any obligation to issue more credit? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It would have been enough, for example: firstly, to limit the benefit to the most virtuous banks, i.e. those that devote at least 60 to 70% of their jobs for loans to households and businesses. Secondly, to limit the tax credit in proportion to the increase in credit to households and businesses. Thirdly, to reserve the tax credit only to banks that accept to contain premiums and salaries of supermanagers within a certain maximum value, equal for example to the salary of the president of the Republic (and excuse if it is little). Finally, to limit the tax credit only to losses due to uncollected claims covered by collateral, in order to overcome the long-standing problem of easy exposures, as often happens, precisely to politicians, their friends entrepreneurs or relatives, strictly always without real guarantees (it will then be easy to lose these claims and get reimbursed by citizens). To be honest, then, not all credit institutions are doing so badly that they need state intervention and aid. I quote Unicredit because the accounts for the semester have now come out. In particular, for the second quarter of 2015 there is a profit of 453 million euros, up 12.4 percent on the previous year. The first quarter ended with a profit of 512 million. The whole semester should therefore be close to a billion profits. For the whole year the forecast is therefore to close with 2.25 billion profits. In short, it is a framework that seems to me to justify very little the race that has gone astray to add incentives to state incentives, obviously strictly paid by the citizens. The Five Star Movement will vote against the confidence of this Government, even for other reasons. Article 19, for example, laying down rules for the electronic civil process, provides for the risk of the acquisition of paper copies - the so-called courtesy copy - of documents filed in electronic form. It sounds incredible, and yet it's true. The Minister of Justice will indicate with decree the modalities of acquisition. I do not think it is necessary to add anything else. We're going back like shrimp. Instead of proceeding towards dematerialization, towards modernity, towards digitalization - we talked about it until yesterday here about the reform of the public administration - we have by decree the perfect opposite, that is, the deposit of the paper copy, sent in electronic mode. The Five Star Movement will vote against the confidence of this Government because a favorable vote would represent a punch to the stomach of all citizens of the city of Taranto, to its many cancer sufferers, but above all to the many victims of our country for accidents at work. For all of them there will be no longer legal certainty; even occupational safety with this decree becomes a functional variable to questionable assessments of political opportunities. The Five Star Movement will vote against the confidence also because the decree under consideration represents a further affront to the autonomy and independence of the judiciary, whose provisions from now on can be made to lose effectiveness thanks to an ad hoc law. I am referring, of course, to the annulment of the prior seizure of Ilva's facilities for the violation of the laws on safety at work, obtained not by judicial action, which should have been followed, but scandalously by legislative act. The Five Star Movement will not give confidence in this decree-law, because it lacks the constitutional requirements of necessity and urgency, but above all of homogeneity. Mr. Undersecretary, what does ILVA have to do with the reform of bankruptcy proceedings? Perhaps if she had been the subject of a separate measure she would not have had the same chance of approval? Would he have found the opposition of the President of the Republic? With reference to necessity and urgency we ask ourselves: if measures such as the tax incentive to use assisted negotiation, the relocation of the Province staff, the suspension of the retirement of the magistrates (which are all contained in this decree) are indeed necessary and urgent - and in your opinion they are because you included them in the decree-law - why did you not vote them by approving the amendments of the Five Star Movement, which went exactly in the same direction, when those same measures relating to these specific points were presented and discussed in the Chamber? I am referring to amendments tabled in this House and in the Commission months and months ago. [[Applause from Senator Mangili]] Perhaps, in truth, they are not so necessary and urgent and the only real necessity and urgency of this decree-law, by majority and government, is precisely to help the banks and the ILVA. The interests of citizens and businesses, once again, can wait. But all this is not due to incompetence. On the contrary, the measure under consideration is further evidence that this Government and this majority follow a very precise plan, namely to continue to be a good investment for lobbyists. For this reason, we of the 5 Star Movement, together with all Italian citizens, want to take away, but forever, trust. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u51	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group will vote against the confidence placed on this measure. Turning to the substance of the text when we look at it, it certainly addresses important issues and some - very few - to be dealt with in the immediate future. I am referring, for example, to the question of Ilva, but also to the question of bankruptcy law. These are important issues and, precisely for this reason, they should be dealt with in the appropriate way and not with a decree-law that was consciously issued in the wake of the summer break. I would remind you of those who are shocked at the summer break, which we will soon begin, that the German Parliament has already been saying goodbye to us for a month of vacation, because it is planning its work rather than always doing it in the wake of the emergency, as we love to do. Among these emergencies is having received from the Chamber of Deputies, a few hours after the summer break, this measure that regulates issues that had to be dealt with with with draft laws. For example, most of the rules under consideration could be included in the draft law to delegate to the Government on the civil process, which is, in fact, under discussion in the Commission and on which we hope will be a fruitful work. Inserting into this measure all sorts of rules, even under the already very broad hat of the title, not only does it not facilitate discussion and renders the examination of the measure ineffective (even if it was wider), but risks going against the Constitution itself. We know that a few months ago some rules were repealed from 2005 because they were included in another measure, making it uneven. We must be careful, because all the rules contained in the measure - there are important ones - risk being reset one tomorrow, perhaps after ten years, by the Constitutional Court, with all the very complex consequences and problems that may arise. There are rules that are self-denial for the total lack of urgency requirements. I am thinking, for example, of Article 14 (2) (a) where it reads: The provision referred to in the present paragraph shall cease to apply if the executive decree is not adopted within 12 months of the entry into force of the law of conversion of this decree. Therefore, a decree-law is adopted on 27 June on the basis of an assumption of extraordinary necessity and urgency, but then, if the executive decree (which can be adopted when desired, in the following twelve months) is not adopted, the provision loses its effectiveness. Would it not have been more normal to present an ordinary bill and to provide for a time limit for the adoption of the executive decree of less than 12 months? Similarly, Article 16 contains a number of interesting rules aimed at spreading the deductibility of certain charges over ten years. However, pursuant to paragraph 7 of this Article, the provisions... shall apply from the current tax period as of 31 December 2015 onwards. Another similar provision even speaks of 31 December 2016. I wonder, then, was there no time to make a proper examination, perhaps taking a wide range of action, bearing in mind that this is the third time we have taken action on issues relating to bankruptcy law within a few months, which really is not practical? It is always said, with great generosity, that we must simplify and streamline, but then, in the context of simplification, we change the norm three times within a few months, making sure that those who have to work have to spend most of the time updating themselves on the new laws rather than working, so we create an obstacle. In this sense, there should be much more vacation than these, because if all we do is produce standards, which then correct other standards, which in turn correct other standards, it is better that we take a break and then work properly, rather than give life to this over-production. In Article 23 there are also interesting rules, where it is said that the provisions contained in this text become effective sixty days after the publication on the website of the Ministry of Justice of the technical specifications provided (...). It is very urgent, but it is so urgent that, a few weeks or months from now, a document will be published which will expire sixty days after which the rule will finally come into force. Here, too, there was time to do something else. Another very interesting passage is from Article 20, which concerns the TAR. Last year, with the usual emergency procedures, a decision had been taken in the context of this combined fury. It is a little difficult to make offices work better, which should be the Commission's first objective. The government is called Executive because it should run and operate the state machine; it should not only occupy the parliamentary classrooms with its decrees-laws, but should precisely govern, i.e. hold the helm. The etymology of the word "government" indicates who pilots the ship and who should move it instead of dealing only with the rules on which the ship stands. Well, instead of making the offices work well, it unites, unites and who cares about Article 5 of the Constitution, which provides for the wider decentralisation of all services dependent on the state. No, we're gonna get it all together! And so the closure of the peripheral offices of the TAR was carried out, provided that the Government proceeded to a certain fulfillment. Since the government has not done so, this article takes note of it and says to let it go and not to suppress anything. The result is that these offices in all these months, expecting to be merged, transferred and unified, have worked a bit worse than usual. The joking interpretation of the word TAR is known: some say that it means "later comes the response." In recent months this trend has increased in the forecast of merging, but then it has not come together. Perhaps it would have been good to include an article of this kind also with regard to the many suppressed courts, which have led to certain costs for the local authorities, which must send their officials to increasingly distant courts and with increasingly difficult transports, and to certain uneasiness for the citizens - with relative costs - who are being asked at every step of the way for a criminal certificate or other certificates. If we then listen to the amendments of the 5 Star Movement's colleagues, the criminal certificate should be displayed every time it opens its mouth. Well, this criminal certificate must go to court and take it further and further away. Then, all in all, it's a good thing that you went back on this point, because at least this useless and probably even expensive amalgamation of the offices of the TAR would have been negative. Finally, if by chance we had any doubts, we vote against because the government trusted it. We regret to say this, because it is the Government of our country and we want first of all Italy to go better and walk, because this is our goal, and that well-being is produced for the citizens. But unfortunately, our government is not. And it's not just us. Our Government does not have the confidence of the OECD, the International Monetary Fund, ISTAT, SVIMEZ, the Court of Auditors and even the European Central Bank. We have a youth unemployment rate at the highest level, at 12.7%, while youth unemployment is at 44 percent. Let us remember the Democratic Party manifestos that four years ago called for the resignation of Berlusconi, because at the time of the international crisis there was youth unemployment at 29%. Now - I repeat - we are at 44 percent: whose resignation, the Democratic Party? However, it is said that unemployment has been at its peak since 1977, but let us remember that this year is being referred to only because it is since 1977 that unemployment has been calculated and recorded comparable to today's. In fact, we are at the peak of unemployment, as far as I know, at least since Diocletian's time. It is difficult to trust those who produce results like this, perhaps saying that it is the fault of those who were there before. After having ruled for a year and a half, perhaps some effect should have been achieved, especially when it is in favor of the "change of pace" and the "Italy that changes towards." In fact, some effects, unfortunately, can be seen. For example, public debt has gone beyond EUR 2,200 billion in momentum, exceeding by more than EUR 300 billion the level reached when the last government was to resign as an expression of voters, namely the Berlusconi Government. The International Monetary Fund provides that we will be at the last places in the European Union for the rate of development and we are now sure that we are better off than only Greece and Cyprus and that we are about like Finland. Unfortunately, we do not have any confidence in this Government, nor do we think we are voting in favour of this measure. We will therefore vote 'no' in a convincing way. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u54	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party votes yes to the decree-law and votes yes to confidence. It is normal that when a complex decree-law such as this is presented, the opposition contests and it is normal that the opposition does not vote for the government. What does not convince me is the cut that the opposition gives when it says no to the decree-law and of course expresses a no to the trust. The no we have also heard in this House can be summed up in this way: it is a no that wants to leave the country as it is. It is a no that represents a conservative point of view on the economic, institutional and, in our case, judicial dynamics of the country. I do not think that this no, linked to a conservative idea, is the best medicine to cure the serious ills of our country, which, if anything, needs more innovation, more reforms and more courage: we need to open new paths, to search new horizons, with a dedication to reforms and innovation, that we have never had in our recent history. That is why our assessment is an evaluation that expresses not only a "yes" but also a different and alternative view to what is proposed to us by the opposition. More crisis, more reform. More crisis, it means more opportunities to address issues never faced in our country. These are the cutting and the tension that should, for the most part, characterize the legislation. A House and a Senate like ours, neglecting the times of the decision, would not do democracy any good. The decision is not a limit, it is not a stumbling block, but a primary resource of modern democracy. That is why we do not look suspiciously at the decree-law; if anything we are called to those regulatory changes to ensure that the legislative initiative proper to the Chambers is able to keep pace with a country that must change and must do so quickly. Colleagues, the most striking example is the bankruptcy law: I remind everyone that this legislation is contained in a Royal Decree of 1942 and to innovate the bankruptcy law is the least that can be done. On the contrary, we should have more courage and face the bankruptcy law with more innovative scope. It is clear that the bankruptcy law of 1942 has its own systematicity and solid foundations, but - alive God! - a little change is good for you and that's what the government wanted to do with the decree-law under consideration. There are several rules that enable the bankruptcy law to respond more to the need for a balance, which must be even more dynamic, between the protection of creditors and the need for companies, calling more responsibility for the professions involved in the bankruptcy proceedings, the banks themselves, the credit institutions themselves. With regard to enforcement procedures and the much-discussed issue of tax matters for banks, ladies and gentlemen, it must be said that the greatest suffering is for small businesses, craft enterprises and families. Giving banks the opportunity to deduct in a year the inexpensive loans that go into distress in exchange for an improvement in their credit activity is a good way. I do not like the other way that the opposition here profiled to tie credit to real guarantees: we have always said that when a craftsman has a good idea, when young entrepreneurs have good ideas, banks have to risk, they have to invest, they have to give credit to that idea and to that project, without being guaranteed by the house, the land, the properties, because this is not worthy of a modern country. In so doing, we penalise those who do not own these goods and instead we must force the banks to invest in this direction. Colleagues, even in this decree-law we are dealing with some issues that are of necessity and urgency for our judicial system. I quote a few, starting with the detention of ordinary magistrates. It is good for this Government to call for innovation, indeed in the Justice Commission we will soon propose a different and faster way of young people's access to the profession of magistrate. Of course, this must be done in an orderly manner, without creating any disruptions, so that having decided to stagger from December 31, 2015 to December 31, 2016 the retirement of those who, having reached the limits for retirement, are currently held in the roles, gives the CSM the possibility to proceed in an orderly manner to the conferral of the managerial tasks that will become vacant. So, ladies and gentlemen, is it not necessary and urgent to intervene in those territories where there is the influx of immigrants and where it is necessary to ensure the demands for international protection, particularly in the field of refugees? With this measure we give the opportunity to displace, with incentives applications, twenty magistrates and I think that this can do good to Sicily, Calabria and those other Regions that are facing on their shoulders this balance that we see day by day. On the telematic process, we also asked the Commission not to go back and so it will be, because while it is true that as far as the telematic administrative process is concerned, the possibility of integration is extended by one year, it is also true that several other telematic functions are part of the administrative process, which are heading in the right direction. We have asked the Minister for clarification regarding the so-called papery courtesy copies, which must be deposited at the Registry. I'm forgetting everyone here who said the government takes a step back by reading yesterday's Ministry of Justice statement: Rome, August 4, 2015 - In other words, the ministerial decree on the telematic civil process will dictate to the chancellors the rules for the methods of acquisition and storage of paper material and will explicitly indicate that the copies of courtesy subject to the various protocols will no longer be managed and accepted by the chancellors. So, ladies and gentlemen, we move on to the telematic process and it also extends to the accounting process, because this is the main road. It must be said - a good connoisseur will understand - that the Democratic Party itself has presented an agenda in the Commission which commits the Government to proceed smoothly along the road to the telematic process. As far as assisted negotiation is concerned, I would remind you that the sceptics in this very Chamber, always with a more careful attitude to conservation than to innovation, told us that it could be okay to make an attempt, but that the use of that procedure had to be encouraged. Well, in this decree-law there is an incentive for those who will resort to assisted negotiation and a road opens up that can really address those high numbers that the rapporteur Casson indicated (quantifying them potentially in as many as 80,000 annual proceedings), and to effectively deflate our judicial circuit, making it more attentive to the speeds and times that, from a real and constitutional point of view, are the real challenge of our process. As far as precarious people are concerned, we have given a quite intelligent answer, because the good ones, the competent ones, those with talents, must be used in the innovative part that has been inserted, that is, the office of the process: talents and qualities must go to that office. Everyone else will keep a title and will be able to assert it in the contests that will be held. Therefore, there will no longer be dequalified introductions, but there will be the possibility of making a paid experience, with the possibility for the best to be placed within the office of the trial, which will become the diamond point of the organisational innovation of our judicial system. The issue of the ILVA in Taranto remains. Colleagues, the mistake that must not be made, which would be truly majestic, is to conflict the right to health, sacred and inviolable, with the right to work; a modern democracy does not make this mistake; a government and a Parliament do not create a conflict between these two dimensions. Colleagues, we know that when this conflict is created, the obvious risk is that the right to health will be the expense of it. This must not happen, that is why the measure that the decree-law provides for, established by our Constitutional Court, is to provide that even in the face of protective measures, productive activities can be maintained, without sacrificing the right to work and, at the same time, proceeding in a targeted way, with certain times and well established precepts, to protect the right to safety and health. Divide, exploit, create a conflict, which does not exist in the conscience of the workers of the territory, between the right to health and the right to work, is a huge error. I think that this delicate, difficult, complex road as much as you want must be looked at with pleasure and nourished because it is a noble objective around which a Parliament can qualify without fear of being denied. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why we want to say yes to the decree-law, yes to trust, knowing that many of the proposals contained in the provision that we are about to convert do not surprise us, because they are responses matured within the Commissions both of the House and of the Senate, in the context of a work that has been done of some sort. I would like to conclude by quoting an introduction made to the House to Article 21-f, which talks about the possibility of giving anti-racket and anti-wear associations the possibility of helping to facilitate the recovery of over-indebtedness in order to ensure that companies that are victims of usury and extortion can come out of it with a high head, not with disproportionate advantages, but through the rules of companies, the good and healthy rules of the market. I have mentioned this in order to say that these are all proposals and solutions which have been developed and well developed within our Parliament's committees. For these reasons, we also say yes to the proposals put forward in this decree-law. We are ready, in the coming weeks and months, to hold the dialogue, because the country needs reforms and innovations, which are the best care to make Italy great, at a time when all the indicators tell us clearly that the country, albeit slowly, has moved. A country that grows by 30% in its ability to attract investment needs the energy of everyone, even the innovative energy of our Parliament, and we do not back down when there is innovation and reform. If we ever challenge the government to do more and not go back. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u55	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u56	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 2021, of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 83, 27 June 2015, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. They asked to vote first, and I gave it, the Senators members of the government, who represented improbable institutional commitments. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Santangelo is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Santangelo. AMATI, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Astorre, Augello, Azzollini Berger, Bertuzzi, White, Bilardi, Bondi, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Casini, Cassano, Casson, Cattaneo, Chiavaroli, Chiti, Cirinna, Cocincich, Collina, Compagnia, Conte, Corsini, Cucca, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Dirindin, D'Onghia Esposito Giuseppe Fabbari, Favorini, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippi, Fincchiaro, Fissorini, Fisorini, Formigoni, Fornaaro, Frangori, Frangori, Frangori, Frangori, Frangori, Frangori, Frangori, Franto, Franto, Franto, Franto, Franto, Franto, Franto, Franto, Franto, Franto, Franto, Franzio Gi Gi Gi Gior, Franto, Franzio, Franto, Franzio, Franto, Franto, Franto, Fran, Franto, Franzio, Franzio, Franzio, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran, Fran There are no senators: Airola, Alicata, Amidei, Amoruso, Aracri, Auricchio Barani, Barozzino, Bellot, Bernini, Bertorotta, Bisinella, Bocca, Bocca, Bonfrisco, Bottici, Bruni, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Caliendo, Campanella, Cappelletti, Caridi, Carraro, Casaletto, Castaldi, Catalfo, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolillo, Cioffi, Compagnono, Compagnone, Conti, Cotti D'Alì, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Siano, Di Maggio, Donno Fasano, Fattori, Ferrara Mario, Floris, Fucksia Gaetti, Galimberti, Gambaro, Gasparrò, Giarrusso Iurlaro Lezzi, Liuzzi, Liuzzi, Longo Eva, Lucidilan Malanelli, Malani, Mandelio, Mandeli, Manguro, Mangilio, Mangilio PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 2021, of conversion into law, with amendments, of the decree-law n. 83, 27 June 2015, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 264 Senators voting 263 Majority 132 Favorables 159 Contrari 104]] The Senate approves. It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 83. I wish everyone a good vacation. Thank you for the work you have all done together and I advise you to rest so that you can resume the new working session with renewed energy.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u59	AMATI (PD). Mr President, tomorrow is August 6. On August 6, 70 years ago, 150,000 of them died immediately after the explosion of the nuclear bomb launched on Hiroshima and, three days later, on Nagasaki. The victims, in the months and years that followed, were tens of thousands. Nuclear weapons are indiscriminate, inhuman, unacceptable. Their very existence goes against every principle of international humanitarian law. The guarantee of their non-use cannot be left to practice, albeit consolidated. We need international instruments to ensure that they are fully banned, under the control of an international institution. The devastating humanitarian consequences of nuclear bombardments were immediately evident and are the basis of numerous UN resolutions, starting from the first in 1946, and of important international instruments, such as the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT). Yet, paradoxically, they have only recently entered the international political agenda. The catastrophic and persistent effects of the use of nuclear weapons, voluntary or accidental, are such that no country, group of countries or international organization could ever adequately address the consequences. Recent progress at international and national level is based on a change of perspective, a greater focus on the humanitarian dimension of the use of particular types of weapons and the risks associated with the limited regulation of the arms trade. I have been working on these issues for a long time, with the fundamental contribution of civil society organisations. I am thinking of the meeting organized with President Grasso and the Nobel Peace Prize winner Jody Williams on the theme of robot killers, in collaboration with the International Campaign for the Ban on Anti-personnel Mines and the Italian Network disarmament, the important progress made in banning anti-personnel mines and cluster bombs, the ratification of the Treaty on the Trade in Arms. I would like to recall, in particular, the motion on the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, tabled in collaboration with the representatives of the Italian network of disarmament and the Blesseds, the peacemakers. The 2014 Conference on the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty saw the participation of survivors in the horrors of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Universalisation and strengthening of non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament regimes are a priority for the international community and Italy. That is why, in motion 2291 last year, we called for Italy to take on a leading role so that, during the 2015 Review Conference, an agreement could be reached on an instrument guaranteeing the total ban on these weapons. We did not discuss that motion, and this year too, in May, the Conference ended without the adoption of a final document. I therefore believe it is important that the reflection on the victims of Hiroshima and Nagasaki today is also an opportunity to remind all of us that we have a fundamental responsibility to learn from experience and to act accordingly. At every appropriate time, the commitment to strengthening the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty as the cornerstone of the global nuclear non-proliferation regime must be reiterated and the disarmament process must be speeded up in any way, including through the negotiation and conclusion of multilateral treaties. We can actually and truly honour the memory of the victims only by banning weapons that represent nothing but the constant threat of irreparable destruction.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u62	DE BIASI (PD). Mr President, at this afternoon's sitting, the Senate Health and Health Commission finally approved the draft law containing provisions on the diagnosis, treatment and certification of persons with autistic spectrum disorders and family assistance. It is a measure that responds to the needs of many people, many of whom are children, and that above all, alongside diagnosis, and even early care, addresses the theme of the loneliness of families, which have been left in some moments too alone and in despair. The text defines the possibility of establishing specific services, training activities for doctors, family members, social workers and, above all, for people suffering from this disease, which is not a disease, but a state of being, addresses the theme of sociality and creativity as a possibility of care and inclusion in society, as well as all those interventions that serve to reopen communication between these people and the world. It is a framework law - it has been discussed a lot about this - an order law, and we will work to ensure that the principles established in it are then properly translated by the regions into active policies and there is adequate funding in the essential levels of assistance and regional health plans. It is a matter of extraordinary importance, for which we have worked collectively, with the loyal cooperation of the House of Deputies and the Government, even in the autonomy of Parliament, and with the parliamentary committees - the Budget Committee and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs - who have worked with us to speed up the process of the measure. I can say, Mr President, that the call by the President of the Republic to quickly draw up a law on autism was a warning to which we have responded with truly extraordinary times. And I would also like to thank you, Mr President, for all the extraordinary cooperation you have given us. From now on, the families concerned will no longer be alone. Let me also thank the two speakers, Senator Romano and Senator Padua, and all the associations we have met: it is a law shared because it was born from the encounter with many associations, with many family members, with many people. The faces of autistic children who, faced with the possibility of communicating, also lose the aggressiveness that sometimes risks becoming social isolation, I think are the best way in which institutions can wish all Italian citizens, and especially the families involved in the peaceful holidays. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u65	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, in the late evening of yesterday, in Belluno, and in particular in the areas of Cadore, in the municipalities of Cortina d'Ampezzo, San Vito, Auronzo, Borca di Cadore and in the Valle del Boite, a water bomb has been knocked down, creating major damage and death. The municipality of San Vito was the most affected, and at this time was given confirmation of two victims, two foreign tourists, and probably was also found a third body. It is a sudden event, as strong as it is absolutely devastating, for a territory that has already demonstrated, in this period, a great fragility. On July 8, in the area of Acquabona, in Cortina, there had been a landslide, not to mention, not to mention, the landslides recorded in the area of Santo Stefano and Coltrondo and the great snowfalls of the previous winters. It is a situation that sees a fragile territory, involved in continuous devastation, that have caused not only victims, to whose families we offer our condolences, but also a weakness from an economic and territorial point of view. Let's remember that it is a mountain territory that lives on tourism and that would like to live and let live its citizens, who are already confronted with other difficulties and with increasingly reduced resources. It is for this reason that I ask the Government that there be the will to immediately allocate aid to deal with the damage recorded; aid that, however, is put immediately in the availability of local administrators who want to restore a territory that has the strength to raise its head, but to which must be given the right and the possibility to react. I repeat that they must be given absolutely an economic help and extraordinary resources in order to be able to intervene immediately, and of course I also address the Region because, with the same contextuality, it declares the state of emergency in order to then get to activate itself in order to receive the resources. Finally, I should like to thank the volunteers, the Civil Protection, the whole world that is fundamental for our mountain areas and that immediately, at the time of the event, intervened to restore the necessary security to a territory that is still in a state of precariousness and where we are afraid that other water bombs or showers may occur, which would bring further debris to the bottom of the valley.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u68	WOMAN (M5S). Hi Michele, we, your group and all the people who met you want to say hello like this. We find ourselves on a hot and humid evening in front of a keyboard to have to tell in a few lines who Michele was. Michele dreamed with us of a fair world, with the same possibilities for everyone. We dreamed of a Bitetto without the deaths of cancer and with parks where children could play in total freedom and security. Michele was an honest entrepreneur who, punctually, at the end of the month, before collecting his salary, thought to pay the salaries of his employees. With Michele a study meeting didn't start if there wasn't at least a beer and a panzerotto. Michele was fighting over plastic bottles instead of glass bottles. With Michele the smokers of the group had a short life because, for every cow, he fined us for polluting or soiling the seat of the meetup. Michele wasn't a hero or just an activist. Michele was a traveling companion, a friend, a brother for many of us: he has always spent with all his strength for us activists, for our spokesman and for the 5 Star Movement. We are convinced that wherever it is, it will continue to work with us for the good of our small big city. We feel the duty to thank Michele for the gift of his altruism and service. Get your hearts up!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u71	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, those who have remained in this House but also those who have left, it is a long time since I was waiting for this moment. And you, President Grasso, will wonder why. To the Vice-Presidents who replaced it at the time of the many speeches that I had the opportunity to put to the attention of this House I would repeat, and I will repeat it to you now, always the same thing. Why do we not answer questions and questions? Why, Mr President? I'd like to paraphrase a very famous song by Domenico Modugno, "The Man in Frac." It came midnight, the song said. And here's noon. The lights are out, the senators are gone, but the problem remains. And it has been for more than two and a half years, Mr President, to the point that I have come to believe that the ancient Latin phrase repetita iuvant is no longer true. We must then say, to those who are going to study the ancient texts and in some way should repeat this way of saying, that is not true. I repeat and repeat myself in this now in vain request - again this time I will place the list of my questions and all those that have not yet been answered - it is to say that it is not acceptable that we respond on average to an interrogation and to a question in a percentage of 1 to 10. It's not admissible. This institution is crucial to our role. It is in the dignity of the parliamentarians to be able to ask the Government, the Ministers and the President of the Council for certain events to take place in the territory. It is not absolutely fair that we do not get an answer. Five months have passed since the presentation of my questioning with which I asked why there is no answer to the questioning. I have come to the point - let me say this - of presenting the mother of all interrogations, collecting the signature of almost 60 senators in a very short time. We really need answers, Mr President, and not for us but for the citizens. So I am really asking in a heartfelt and heartfelt way - and I will repeat myself all the time - for you, Mr President, to speak with the Ministers and the President-in-Office of the Council to respond. Let's take this opportunity in this summer break, in this right moment of rest, to establish that, when we meet again in September, we will take some effort to answer the many questions that have not yet been asked.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u72	Senator Amidei, the Presidency is committed to a concrete reminder, hoping that this will be the right time and there will be some answers.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u73	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-498.ana.u74	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 8 September, at 5 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 13.06 a.m.
