ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr BERGER, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u8	I communicate that on 25 November the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u9	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1945.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u12	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, during the verification of the quorum requested on the vote on the Minutes I saw on the electronic board that the number of senators present was very low. I would therefore ask you to know the number of senators on leave today and also the quorum required for the quorum, so that we can all see it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u13	The number of senators on mission is 59 and the quorum for the quorum is 135. I'm saying this for the information you asked for, Senator Santangelo. Pending the representative of the Government and the end of the period of notice, I suspend the session until 10 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.40 a.m. and resumed at 10 a.m.) The session is resumed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is not supported.) Verification of SANTANGELO (M5S) quorum. Let us then ask for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the discussion of the draft law n. 1945 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote Rule 1. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I put to the vote Rule 3. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u16	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, the vote by show of hands is very simple: just raise your hand. I've seen very few hands raised. We kindly ask you for the counterproof. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I've already proclaimed the result. SANTANGELO (M5S). Before you proclaim, watch me. If colleagues do not raise their hands, can you explain to me how you can determine whether it is approved or not? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I understand by the number of colleagues who raised their hands. SANTANGELO (M5S). We have a President Nostradamus this morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u17	We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The request must be repeated and the support must be verified on each article. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5. SANTANGELO (M5S). I am always available for electronic voting. So, you can happily count on my support. We therefore call for a simultaneous vote to be taken by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We'll count on it, Senator Santangelo. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u20	BONFRISCO (CoR). Madam President, the 1945 Senate Act provides for the ratification and enforcement of the Defence Cooperation Agreement between our Government and the Government of the Republic of Somalia. This Agreement will increase cooperation between the Italian and Somali Armed Forces and foster mutual understanding on the main security issues. In this context, I would like to remind you that in paragraph 197 of article 1 of the 2016 Stability Act the financing to the Italian Development Cooperation Agency is increased by 720 million for the three-year period 2016-2018. It is an important effort for Italy, which must be well directed to ensure the start of cooperation programmes, such as those authorised by this Agreement, with all those countries - I am thinking also of Tunisia and Egypt - which are most engaged in the fight against terrorism and in the defence of their fragile democracy. It is desirable that the Agreement that we are ratifying should not only have a positive effect on certain productive and commercial sectors of the two countries, but also a general stabilising effect for the whole of the Horn of Africa region, especially in view of the impetus that this cooperation can provide to the activities linked to the fight against maritime piracy, which for many years has been a sad thing that no degree of cooperation or international law has been able to stem. All this is done with a view to promoting the stability of a country that occupies an area of considerable strategic interest, albeit in a regional context marked by unrest, by the growth of the phenomenon of Islamic fundamentalism and by the spread of illegal trafficking of migrants and weapons. In the last year Somalia has come a long way, reaching some important goals: the expulsion of the terrorist group led by Al-Shabaab, the establishment of a new Government and the opening of the Conference of European Countries for Somalia, held in Brussels in September 2013, with the aim of organizing the European Union's support for reconciliation and the civil and economic reconstruction of the country. The long tradition of friendship between Italy and Somalia that has its roots in many years of collaboration has allowed to intervene with particular abilities, always recognized realizing interventions that no other donor has realized in the country, including the programs of peace and reconciliation, that are recomposing the foundations of local administrations and those of support to the central institutions. Currently, Italian Cooperation is funding projects worth over 17 million euros, through various organizations (Unicef, Unops, Fao). The presence of Italy is strong, in particular, in the health sector, which has registered an important involvement of Italian Cooperation and NGOs, through the rehabilitation of health structures, the training of staff, participation in vaccination campaigns and control of the main communicable diseases, the supply of drugs. Between 2000 and 2009, Italy employed around 26 million dollars in the sector. In the last four years Italian Cooperation has also financed the reconstruction of Somalia for a total amount of funds of about 43 million euros: of these 36.4 million euros have been invested through the ordinary channel and 6.7 through the emergency channel. The military action of the AMISOM (African Union in Somalia) and the Somali army managed to isolate the Al-Shaabab terrorist group in most of the country, although there are still some pockets of resistance. Moreover, the terrorist attacks that threaten the security and stability of the nation and sow terror among the population, which is why it is not pleonastic, in the very delicate historical moment that we are experiencing, emphasize that our Government must encourage as much as possible the relations of friendship with the most peaceful and far-sighted communities, that in such an unstable and contentious territory, can prove to be the determining allies in the fight against terrorism to the security of that area and, in contrast, to the security of Europe. For these reasons, our vote is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u23	Stitches (LN-Aut). Madam President, yesterday I spoke in general debate, anticipating our Group's vote in favour, partly because such initiatives, which tend to stabilise a sensitive area, also prevent certain phenomena such as illegal immigration, which is one of the plagues that plagues - alas - not only our country but the whole of Europe. Without adding anything else, I confirm the favorable vote of the League Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u26	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this agreement we are debating today sees our strongest opposition, for the reasons I shall explain. Like all agreements of this type, the Agreement Italy-Somalia has elements in common with all the "hot" areas of the globe where there is cultivation, processing and transport of oil. As usual, in a strip of land of Africa, among the poorest in the world, we sign agreements for the supply of weapons, with yet another army of facade, placing the costs on the "beneficiary" country, in order to defend the interests of the international economy, a shredded and shredded history. This Agreement concerns the training and supply of arms to the Somali army, to a government that has just emerged from a transitional phase, without having the slightest guarantee that the flow of arms does not fall into the "wrong hands" or that "staying in the right hands" does not constitute an instrument of oppression for the Somali people. Needless to say, this agreement does not concern two sovereign states, but a sovereign state and the clans in turn. Although Mohamud, the new face of Somali politics, is trying to improve the political situation and fight terrorism, it is a lost battle from the start. In the last 2015 report, Human Right Watch clearly indicates that in the impetus of the fight against terrorism, government forces have little or no regard for civilians, often involved in armed clashes and that, among Somali regular forces, are in use practices of sexual violence, unjustifiable murders, torture and mass arrests. Here too, Madam President, we must pay the greatest attention: if you fight evil, if you want to isolate terrorism, you cannot be more heinous than terrorists. After Paris and especially after the events of Bamako in Mali, this agreement really takes on a different meaning. Unless it happens that the terrorists of ISIS or Al Shabaab are voluntarily given weapons, which seems quite frequent nowadays, the best way to get them is to arm a newly-born state in a permanent war zone, with continuous conflicts between the various factions, with conflicts at the borders and absolute absence of social services. It is useless, Madam President, to observe minutes of silence for the victims, when we are not sure that our actions did not favour the murderers. After the Russian plane shot down on Sinai, after the attack in Beirut, after Paris, after Bamako, we need a change of course, we need to say no to these dangerous agreements, on which we have no control. On the other hand, we would have no problem dealing with the real problems of the Somali people. It would be desirable to cooperate with the Somali Government on the control of illegal fishing on the coasts, as requested by its President several times, by large companies, which, under the pretext of the vacuum of power, subtract resources from a country at the limit of famine. Italy collaborates with the Somali Government in the anti-piracy mission, to extend it also to poaching in Somali territorial waters, and on this we sign immediately. The Somali people are now exhausted, hungry and frightened, scattered among huge refugee camps, subsistence economy and city without services. On July 20, 2011, while our democratic countries were dealing with Arab Springs (doing more damage than anything else) as in Libya, the UN declared that the southern region of Somalia was hit by a severe famine due to an exceptional period of intense drought and that it exhausted at least 10 million people, devastating the already fragile social ties, increasing the widespread banditism and extremist Islamism of Al Shabaab. With international missions underway, allowing the Somali people to starve is a crime as well as an enormous shame for us Italians and Europeans. Somalia, instead of being pacified by years of international missions, has become an outbreak of terrorism, in line with all the international contexts in which we claim to be carriers of democracy. The agreement under discussion is another part of this endless war and it is time to take note of this situation. Western interests unleash endless conflicts, this is now an acquired fact, causing quarrels between the clans who are now fighting for their independence, now for the hegemony over other clans who, strong of the advantages with foreign partners, trigger further conflicts, fueling an endless spiral of violence. The Somali Government, with that little independence remaining, has repeatedly denounced operations of special troops, including the French, operating in the country without any kind of authorization from the young Somali institutions. The troops of the African Union have also made themselves responsible for countless incidents of violence against the civilian population, as demonstrated by several recent investigations, without anything being done to punish the guilty. In addition, since 2011, civil law has been administered by military courts, which judge civilians even on non-military crimes, without the defendants having the right to defend themselves. This is not the place to imagine a different policy in Somalia and it is not us, but the Somalis who have to do it, but the 5 Star Movement certainly cannot endorse agreements of this type, because it considers the latter responsible for the procrastination of violence in an endless spiral. It is time, Mr President, to reverse the course, considering the implications of our actions, also because of our colonial past, and to note that acting in a former colony represents an insurmountable conflict of interest. If Italy wants to do more for the Somali people, consider a different policy of reception of refugees, speeding up procedures, and above all by opposing agreements of this nature, which are nothing but gasoline on the fire of an endless conflict.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u29	MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u30	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u31	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1986. The working rapporteur, Senator Maran, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u32	, f. f. Madam President, draft law No 1986 provides for the ratification and enforcement of the Agreement signed in September 2012 between Italy and Senegal on defence cooperation. It is recalled that Senegal, a country of 12.5 million inhabitants, constitutes an island of relative political stability in a regional context marked, as we know, by the unrest, by the growth of the phenomenon of Islamic fundamentalism and by the spread of illegal trafficking of migrants and weapons. The content of the measure is to a large extent consistent with that of the Agreement, which has just been examined, with Somalia. The text regulates the general aspects of cooperation and provides for it to develop on the basis of annual and multiannual plans drawn up by the Parties. Articles 3 and 4 in particular identify the areas and modalities of cooperation (research and development, logistical support, training and training, health and military exercises). The following chapters regulate the financial aspects of the Agreement (Chapter III), matters relating to jurisdiction (Chapter IV) and the arrangements for compensation for damage caused by the parties' staff in relation to the exercise rendered (Chapter V). Chapter VI which regulates possible cooperation in the field of defence materials with the aim of rationalising controls and procedures relating to them and ensuring the protection of intellectual property, including patents. The draft law of ratification consists of five articles which have, respectively, the authorization to ratify (Article 1), the order of execution (Article 2), the financial cover (Article 3), the clause of financial invariance (Article 4) and the entry into force (Article 5). With regard to economic charges, the bill calculates them in about 5,000 euros, every other year, attributable to mission expenses. In conclusion, it is proposed that the Assembly approve this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u33	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u34	Madam President, I agree with the report. This is another measure similar to what we have just voted on, which aims to give certainties in an area that is just as delicate. I will then vote in favour of the League Group, but I would like to stress, in the general debate, that these initiatives are not intended to encourage the use of weapons or instruments that are not correct even from an institutional point of view. They are cooperation solutions that go in the right direction considering the areas in which action is taken and - alas - often it is a question of cooperation in the field of defence, which is strategic and important in every reality. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u35	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u38	Stitches (LN-Aut). Madam President, I have already anticipated the vote in favour of the Lega Nord Group, which I repeat, and I stress once again that this is a necessary intervention to stabilise an area which unfortunately, in this case too, sees the departure of many people who reach Italy with the illusion of a better life and instead find themselves, at best, selling some objects, often false, on our beaches. Therefore, it is right to approve this measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u41	LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, I am voting against the 5 Star Movement Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u44	MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u45	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u46	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2029, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Fattorini, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u47	The draft law under consideration, already approved by the House of Deputies, provides for the ratification and enforcement of the Association Agreement, signed in June 2014, between the European Union and Georgia. Georgia is a former Soviet Republic that became independent in April 1991, a country of 4.3 million inhabitants, narrow between the Black Sea and the Caucasus mountain range, characterized by the presence of large national minority groups, Azerbaijanis, Armenians and Russians. As you know, Georgia has recently been marked by the conflict in the separatist regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia, self-proclaimed independent and supported by Russia. Unfortunately, these conflicts have seen some very recent developments. Last July, in fact, there was a new unilateral expansion of the region of South Ossetia, through a physical shift, for about one and a half kilometers, of fences and barbed wires that mark the border. Moreover, in this new stretch of territory passes an important oil pipeline that transports the Azerbaijani oil to the Black Sea, bypassing Russia. Both the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Mr Mogherini, and the President of the European Council, Mr Tusk, strongly condemned the expansion strategy of the separatists. On the Russian side, the episode probably appears as a response to NATO's joint exercises, which began on July 9, which saw engaged, in addition to American and Georgian soldiers, troops from Bulgaria, Romania, Lithuania and Latvia. Also because of its very difficult relations with Moscow, Georgia is, among the countries of the area, the one that has pursued the objective of strengthening relations with the European Union for a long time and without uncertainty. It is therefore one of the countries that is adversely affected by the current difficulties in the whole area of the neighbourhood policy, highlighted also by the resolution adopted by the Senate Foreign Commission last June. The Association Agreement that we are examining today goes hand in hand with those signed with Ukraine (recently ratified) and Moldova (which we will be discussing shortly). The text extends the Cooperation Agreement dating back to 1999, extending the sectors concerned and aiming at the creation of an area of "wide and in-depth free trade." The document can therefore be assimilated to a real agenda for reforms aimed at stimulating Georgia's adaptation to European regulatory standards in many areas, e.g. by ensuring consumer protection, greater opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises, lower energy costs, renewable energy development, better functioning of the judicial system and guarantees of transparency. On the basis of the data provided by the European Commission, the Agreement could lead to an increase in Georgia's gross national product by 4.3 percent per annum by increasing exports and adapting domestic legislation. As regards the content, the Agreement consists of a preamble, 432 articles, 34 technical annexes and 4 protocols. The content is similar to the agreements with Ukraine and Moldova. Title II provides for the deepening of political dialogue to facilitate progressive convergence between the parties in the fields of security and foreign policy, with particular attention to regional stability, conflict prevention and crisis management. Title III addresses issues relating to freedom, security and justice, with particular reference to human rights, migration, asylum and border management, including the commitment of the Parties to judicial cooperation. Title IV, the most comprehensive, regulates trade and trade issues and outlines the boundaries of the free trade area, including rules for market access, the abolition of most customs duties and anti-dumping measures for the protection of intellectual property and geographical indications. Title V regulates economic cooperation, providing for rules to facilitate economic dialogue between the parties, the management of public finances and taxation. Title VI includes areas of possible bilateral cooperation (transport, energy, environmental protection and others), while Title VII contains rules on financial assistance and anti-fraud and control provisions. Finally, Title VIII sets out general and final provisions, providing for regular meetings at ministerial level, the establishment of a Council and an Association Committee and the promotion of a parliamentary committee for the exchange of views between their respective parliaments. The economic costs for Italy are quantified in total in about 10,000 euros annually, starting from the year 2016. It is, therefore, an agreement of great political value and, therefore, it is proposed that the Assembly approve the measure under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u48	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u49	Madam President, the rapporteur has explained the content of this measure, but perhaps she has not touched on the real political point that lies at the root of the reasoning that we should all make and that has led our Group to vote against. When it comes to Abbey or Ossetia, it is said that they are independent provinces, they are Russian-speaking provinces. A country that does not respect the principle of self-determination of peoples is the liberal. And, from this point of view, we cannot talk about separatists, because they are people who feel they have the right to self-determination, as happened at the time with Kosovo - if you remember - when the Albanians claimed the independence of Kosovo. And you - and I am addressing my colleagues in the centre-left in particular - have recognized that legitimate aspiration, which we have then seen what consequences it has brought. In time, a different choice was made, contrary to this one. In this case, self-determination-related aspirations are, instead, classified as non-communicable. However, double standards cannot be used to assess legitimate aspirations and similar situations. From a political point of view, therefore, we cannot endorse an agreement with a country that goes in a different direction than the protection of one of the fundamental human rights, which concerns, precisely, the self-determination of peoples. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u50	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u53	Stitches (LN-Aut). Madam President, I do not think it is appropriate to repeat the political assessment that has just been made of the lack of respect for the principle of self-determination of the peoples, which leads us, therefore, to vote against, which I confirm here and I limit myself to that. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u56	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Madam President, I cannot help but point out that these agreements are being examined how peanuts are munching at the circus. This agreement will have passed to the Commission in two seconds and that is the content of what we are ratifying. In my opinion, when we come to declare that we have made a mistake in foreign policy (in Libya, against Gaddafi, or with intervention in Iraq) it is precisely because we work in this way. In my opinion, this is an automatic consequence. [[Applause from Senator Bottici]] However, on the way back to this Agreement, we are talking about some sort of TTIP with Georgia, and I will go straight to the heart of the Agreement. It is characterized by strategic and military needs more than economic and we can talk about a real plan of "assimilation" of the country to European dictates. I should like to explain the reasons for this statement immediately. Georgian GDP is EUR 16 billion per year, with 15% unemployment and average wages of around EUR 250 per month. The premises for facilitating the outsourcing of our companies to this country seem to be more than attractive, while the Georgian market is too small to be within the reach of our commercial companies. This agreement is also fully part of the new generation of structural adjustment plans, which will see social differences tightened and poor sections of the population increased, which will obviously tend to move to European metropolis. According to various sources, the weight of the Agreement would be just EUR 300 million per year, a very small figure to justify the media's comments on its signature, which spoke of its historical significance. So how do we justify such enthusiasm? The path of accession to NATO as well as to the European Union, inaugurated with the Rose Revolution, has gone ahead and Georgia, which borders on Russia, is already hosting NATO forces, is already participating in the largest military exercises since the end of the Second World War, which follow at an unceasing pace. "Baltops," "Saber Strike," "Noble Jump" and "Trident Joust" and so on: names change, but the goal remains the increase of the American military contingent in Europe. Russia considers the presence of NATO in Georgia as a provocation, which it in turn responds to with the militarisation of its borders. Then there is another reason that has prompted a giant with 742 million inhabitants to close this Agreement with a country of 4.5 million inhabitants, and it is Georgia's strategic position for the supply of gas to Europe, the crossroads of the transport of gas and oil, mainly from Russia and Azerbaijan to Europe. The agreement that we are about to ratify liberalizes all stages of production, transformation and transport of energy, with a small problem: the main part of this flow comes from Russia, which has the main deposits and which, precisely in response to the crisis in Ukraine and to the policies of annexation of the Caucasian Republics by NATO, the EU and the USA, has decided to divert the gas to China, strengthening the pipelines and pipelines to that country. In practice, this means that Georgia loses another wealth, that of easy gas, in favour of more expensive supplies, in line with market prices. The Ukrainian crisis has accelerated on both sides the race for strategic agreements and the one under consideration is no exception. If we add to this picture that, in the meantime, Russia and China in May 2014, in the wake of tensions in Ukraine, have signed a strategic agreement for the supply of natural gas, military, commercial, financial and monetary assistance, linked to a double mandate with the BRICS, (of which both countries are part), we realize how the loot of the Caucasian countries, conquered by bombings, unfair commercial practices, overthrow of democratically elected regimes and military presence, is really the antechamber to a clash of biblical proportions, which I believe, Madam President, it is better to avoid. There is a huge contradiction in a Union that cannot give itself truly democratic institutions, hostage to banks and multinationals, which continues to expand. We are exporting the wrong model for the interests of the people, that is, 99% of the population who do not enjoy the benefits of the Union in a fair way. There is another open vein, namely the approval of the TTIP, in the secret agreements between the EU and the US, which provides for a further enlargement of this market and the adaptation of European standards to those of the US, which will result in further pressure for European companies and consumers. If the union between the peoples of Europe, which remains for us the socio-economic model to pursue and in which we believe, cannot give itself an identity, out of the games of dominance of global finance, there is no future. Or rather, the future is already here: we expect an increase in migratory problems, a further reduction in wages and salaries and a progressive transformation of the economic fabric (from small and medium-sized enterprises to multinationals and large companies, able to invest everywhere and convince politics to support any absurd economic penetration plan). This system already sows poverty, economic crisis and public debt galloping. These are the reasons why we are voting no to this villainous Association Agreement. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u59	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u60	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u61	The next item is the debate on the draft law n° 2030, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Pegorer, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u62	Madam President, the measure concerns the Association Agreement signed with Moldova. Former Soviet Republic, which became independent in August 1991, Moldova is a country of 3.6 million inhabitants, marked by the presence of large national minority groups, particularly Ukrainian and Russian, but also Romanian, Bulgarian and Polish. Also in this country, as in Georgia, there are problems of territorial sovereignty (let's define it this way). The eastern region of Transnistria, where the large Russian community lives, has unilaterally declared its independence, under the protection of Moscow, in September 1990, and is currently one of the most difficult problems for the government of the country. Another great concern also arouses its fragile economy, marked by a substantial hemorrhage of its workforce, a third of which resident abroad, of which 150,000 people in Italy. The content of the Agreement is very similar to what Mr Fattorini has just said in relation to Georgia. Here too there are provisions (under Title II) for deepening political dialogue and for facilitating progressive convergence between the parties in the fields of security and foreign policy, with particular attention to regional stability and crisis management. Title III addresses issues relating to freedom, security and justice, with particular reference to respect for human rights, migration, asylum and border management. The Parties' commitment to cooperation on the movement of persons and the fight against organised crime and drug trafficking is also envisaged. Title IV contains commitments made by the parties in respect of 28 key areas: from public administration reform to company law, from consumer protection to taxation, energy, transport and the environment. I welcome in this section a whole chapter on cooperation on the protection and promotion of children's rights. This cooperation includes the prevention and fight of all forms of exploitation (including child labour), carelessness and violence against children; the implementation of measures aimed at promoting children's rights in families and institutions. Title V, the most comprehensive, outlines the boundaries of the free trade area in terms almost similar to those of the agreements with Ukraine and Georgia: market access, administrative cooperation, protection of intellectual property, trade and sustainable development. From a strictly commercial point of view, the Agreement lays down rules for the elimination of duties on imports and exports, subject to certain exceptions for categories of goods considered sensitive by the parties. Other zootechnical and agri-food products will not see any liberalization of their duties, but the use of tariff quota schemes. Title VI contains measures for financial assistance and anti-fraud and control provisions. Finally, Title VII contains institutional and final provisions, providing for the organisation of annual summits and the establishment of an Association Council, as well as the promotion of a bilateral parliamentary committee. The economic costs for Italy are quantified in total in 6,360 euros per year, starting in 2016.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u63	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u64	Madam President, we are in a situation similar to that outlined in the previous measure. Again there is an area, a region, an important province, Transnistria, which does not recognize the legitimate aspirations of the Russian community. It is true that Moldova is a young Republic, out of that disaster that was the Soviet Union, and it is equally true that there are strong relations between Moldova and Italy, because of 150,000 people residing in our country and who carry out a whole series of activities from us. But it is also true that we cannot ignore, from a political point of view, the respect for those fundamental principles recognised by the UN Charter, such as the right to self-determination. As long as there is no such recognition, we will not be able to endorse such choices.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u65	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u68	Stitches (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to speak quickly to reiterate the opposition of the League Group. Here again there is the vulnus of non-respect for one of the UN's recognized fundamental rights on the self-determination of peoples. Mr Crosio rightly reminds me that close relations between the two countries cannot be cracked. And these are of course political evaluations linked to a series of sensitive and important activities, carried out by subjects of Moldovan nationality, who operate and live in our territory. It is certainly not against these citizens that we want to express our disapproval, by expressing ourselves on the approval of this measure, but it is because of the choice of content that has been made, on which we absolutely cannot agree.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u71	LUCIDES (M5S). I declare the 5 Star Movement's vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u74	MARAN (PD). Madam President, I am speaking in an explanation of vote only to clarify certain aspects which have also been raised in the previous debate, and I will do so only in the context of this explanation of vote, but also in the case of the other draft ratification laws that we shall be discussing. My speech concerns the establishment of the ratifications under consideration, on which it is worth clarifying, given that the foreign policy debate, in these weeks and in those which await us, will be at the heart of a series of reflections. The agreements at our examination constitute the attempt, in accordance with what is perhaps the most important lesson of the last century, to build nations and their civilization through law. After the Second World War, the lesson from which the European Union has been that it did not behave as it did with the Treaty of Versailles, by kneeling the enemy of yesterday and forcing him, with sanctions and disarmament, in the condition that he could not harm. That agreement and that conception had caused the rise of Nazism and World War II. After that lesson we decided to hold the enemy of yesterday so tightly to us that war was impossible and even - as we say - unthinkable. This is also the attitude behind the enlargement of the European Union: in the face of the dissolution of the Soviet empire, we decided to make those peoples and states so close to us that the war we saw in Europe, in the former Yugoslavia, became impossible and unthinkable. It is this fabric of relations that underpins the liberal order that has fed the United States in particular and then our European experience, which constitutes and has formed the framework for economic, social and political development in recent years. In the face of all the misfortunes we see, we must not forget that before us we have the consequences not so much of our failures, but of our successes. Last year, from the point of view of all global indicators, such as poverty, health and development - although we have a lot of trouble - was the best year in the history of humanity. Over the last ten years, 1.5 billion people have been out of misery. This causes us a lot of problems and causes a lot of trouble to our export, but we cannot think that the answer is to ask them to return to a condition of misery, because we were "in the grace of God" and, therefore, better. In the face of these phenomena, we have a situation to manage, aggravated by the reduction of the global role of the United States, which do not have the will, nor the capacity and the internal consent to continue acting as the gendarme of the world. The biggest problem is Europe's difficulty in maintaining cohesion so that it can be a regional and global player of some significance. Colleagues, at the end of all these discussions the question is always the same. There are no more bipolar worlds, no more unipolar worlds - I am referring to the short period of American unilateralism - and regional powers are emerging. At the center of the whole story in the Middle East there is precisely the conflict for who will be the hegemony power in that area. The question we have to ask Europe is, therefore, very simple: In the face of this international scenario, are you able to become a regional power, yes or no? Do you want to continue with the process of unification to support this effort to spread the liberal order, consolidate and accompany the transition processes, yes or no? That is the question we need to answer. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I'm gonna finish. The things I've heard about TTIP and trade agreements are caricatures. In front of us we also have a great strategy, which is the following idea. Since no one is able to direct and organize the world alone and there is no longer a single center, in order to face the dangers that come from the autocratic regimes and the extension of powers that can be menacing, a peaceful agreement must be built - as has been done in recent weeks - that includes eleven countries of the area from India to Australia, so great from the economic point of view and so strong from the military that it allows to be inclusive (for example with China, that if it will meet the standards it will be able to enter), but also robust to establish the standards? The same thing we have to do on the Atlantic side: I am talking about an economically and militaryly solid agglomeration, which allows an inclusive approach to Russia (that is, it can be included, but we will be setting standards). This is the last opportunity that the West has to play a significant role and - incidentally - also the easiest way to prevent the backseat. If Britain no longer knows where to go because of an agreement that no longer allows it a special partnership like the one with the United States, then the process of integration can also have - as they say - a little wind in the sails. This is what we have to deal with. For all these considerations, which I have done very quickly, I am voting in favour of my Group's draft ratification law under consideration and the subsequent ones. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u77	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u78	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u79	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1966, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Pegorer, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u80	Madam President, the draft law before us, which has already been adopted by the House of Members, is the ratification and implementation of the Cooperation Agreement between Italy and Kazakhstan on combating crime, terrorism and the illicit trafficking of drugs and illicit substances. It is recalled that Kazakhstan, the former Soviet Republic with almost 17 million inhabitants, occupies a strategic geopolitical position, a crossroads between Russia and the Asian Islamic world. It is a growing country, although often criticized for practices and regulations that do not always comply with international standards, especially in respect of human rights. This Agreement, consisting of 14 articles, aims at preventing, combating and combating organised crime and its related crimes, in particular drug trafficking, illegal immigration, terrorism, trafficking in works of art and environmental crimes in accordance with their respective national laws and international agreements signed by the two countries. Article 3 identifies the bodies responsible for implementing the Treaty (for Italy the Department of Public Security of the Ministry of Interior). The following Articles 4, 5, 6 and 7 list the arrangements for cooperation between the Parties, including, for example, the exchange of information, experts and work technologies. Further provisions, provided for in Articles 8-14, provide for the intensification of cooperation between Interpol's national offices, the methods of use and protection of personal data and the possibility of refusal of requests for assistance. The draft law of ratification consists of four articles which have, respectively, the authorization to ratify, the order of execution, the financial coverage and the entry into force. The economic costs are quantified in total in approximately 100,000 euros per year from 2015, of which about 55,000 for mission expenses. The Agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national law, Community law and other international obligations entered into by our country, starting with the Convention against the Illegal Trafficking of Narcotic Substances of 1988 and the Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Attacks of 1997.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u81	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u82	Madam President, the rapporteur, Mr Pegorer, has made it very clear how important this measure is, the content of which, moreover, has also been developed in the Commission. If it is true, as he has pointed out, that Kazakhstan, with which we are going to close the Agreement, is a country that still has to make progress on respect for human rights, it is equally true that what we are going on is the right path. I also stop at this point to save money especially in this House, and not so much to myself, other lessons in history and geopolitics. [[Applause from Senator Centinario.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u83	The general debate is closed. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on Amendment 3,100, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u84	Madam President, Amendment 3,100 starts from the assessment of the fact that we are at the end of the year and, therefore, we believe that the expenditure allocated for the implementation of these agreements should shift to 2016, also because from ratification to implementation we will still reach that year. The rapporteur tells me that this is not possible, because there is no approval of the Budget Commission, but I insist on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u85	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u86	Madam President, I call for a withdrawal, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u87	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u90	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u91	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Let us move on to Amendment 3,100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. BERTOROTTA (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,100, tabled by Senator Bertorotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u94	SANTANGELO (M5S). I intervene to understand, more than anything else. In the previous vote you had Article 3 voted on with the electronic system without checking the support of the Commission. If it is possible to proceed as has been done before, I agree. We avoid checking the support every time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Two requests and two explicit support checks were made, one on the vote on Article 3 and one on the vote on Amendment 3,100 on which the Budget Commission had given an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). I think it's an innovative way. I take note of this and it will become a practice. We avoid checking for support every time.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u95	Senator Santangelo, I want to explain to you: previously there was some misunderstanding. First, support for the electronic vote on Article 3 and then support for the vote on the amendment in contrast to Article 81 of the Constitution. Therefore, we had already gained support for the electronic vote on Article 3 before the electronic vote on the amendment. There has been no innovation in practice. SANTANGELO (M5S). I don't want to insist. We therefore call for the vote to be taken simultaneously by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u98	Stitches (LN-Aut). In my very brief general speech, I forgot to anticipate the Group's position. I think it's well understood. It is a favourable position because we believe, as I said before, that this is the right way to go in this type of agreement with this type of country.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u101	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Madam President, I do not have the same concern as Senator Stucchi to tedious the House because I believe it is important to deepen and understand the picture of the situation in these countries with which we are continuing to conclude agreements. You don't understand what the general design is. We are talking about Kazakhstan, the country of the Shalabayeva case, that is, the kidnapping of the wife and daughter of the opposition leader Ablyazov, the country in which Nazarbaev, the omnipotent President, has reigned since 1991, caring to eliminate any valid alternative. In this country at least 16 Kazakh oil company workers were executed by the Kazakh military forces while claiming the right to a better paid and safer job. It is finally the country where ENI has big mining interests. For these reasons, the 5 Star Movement voted against the Military Cooperation Treaty, which essentially concerns the supply of weapons that could also be used against the population or for offensive purposes that endanger peace. On the Treaty on the transfer of prisoners, while acknowledging the need to regulate their exchange, I note that there is no safeguard clause for political prisoners or persecuted persons in their country, while Kazakhstan itself has not signed the Convention promoted by the Council of Europe on the treatment of prisoners and has undergone several warning actions by the European Parliament. Despite this, there must be a framework agreement between the parties, and that is why we have abstained, waiting for the agreement to be supplemented, even in the near future, with clauses protecting political prisoners and persecuted people in general. Meanwhile, the picture of the war in Syria has become clearer and ISIS has ended up under the magnifying glass and has discovered not only unconfessible links with Western democracies and the Gulf, but it has also come to establish where these thousands of mercenaries come from that are pouring into Syria. ISIS is a priority to be fought at global level, this is now common to all coalitions, which have been formed to fight in Syria over the past four years. To this end, the line of the 5 Star Movement is crystal clear. We must starve ISIS, that is, we must cut the supplies of weapons, men and means, we must destroy its logistics and make them unable to act in this way. The agreement in question, as we know, concerns the intensification of cooperation between the police of our country and the Kazakh police, an important part in the fight against illicit trafficking. Kazakhstan has a central position between the Asian Republics and can more easily control the movement of people and goods to and from the director. Important is also the connection with the Interpol circuit that allows to integrate the information already in possession of our main partners, as provided for in the Agreement. A certain percentage of terrorists come from the Caucasian republics: Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan are the main reservoirs from which Islamic terrorism draws to sow death and destruction. Not only Islamic youths go to fight with ISIS, but also high ranks of security in those countries, as in the case of a colonel of the special forces Tagike, known as Omon, who in June this year passed into the ranks of ISIS, after having participated in as many as five trainings on counterterrorism in the United States. In Uzbekistan, the local Islamic movement has sworn allegiance to ISIS, while it is a few days ago the news of a maxi arrest of 200 affiliates. ISIS has even made a video showing Kazakh children during weapons training, which even demonstrates the possibility of creating training camps in a country not at war, while Kazakh intelligence claims that there are at least 300 ISIS members, including at least 150 women. These alarming reports alone justify such a police agreement. In line with what has been said by the 5 Star Movement in foreign policy, that is, to starve the terrorists of ISIS, acting on financing and logistics, we believe, like my colleagues in the House, that this Agreement must be ratified, and I announce my vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u104	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u105	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u106	We welcome a representation of students from the High School of State Gymnasium "Anco Marzio" in Rome, who are today visiting the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u107	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1972. The working rapporteur, Senator Maran, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u108	, f. f. Madam President, this Agreement, signed in 2012, aims to renew the current legal framework for bilateral relations, dating back to 1995, with a view to intensifying political dialogue and sectoral cooperation. In particular, the aim is to strengthen trade and investment, but also to increase cooperation on justice, sustainable development, migration, the fight against organised crime, education and culture. Vietnam, as you know, is a country in great economic growth, which has started a significant process of internal reforms and strategic relocation from the point of view of international alliances. As you will recall, the country has recently hosted the visit of President Mattarella, accompanied also by Minister for Economic Development Guidi. The entry into force of this Agreement should also facilitate the conclusion of a free trade agreement between the European Union and Vietnam, the negotiations of which were initiated by the parties in 2012, in line with the European Union's objective of strengthening economic relations with all ASEAN countries. The Agreement, consisting of 65 articles divided into eight titles and four annexed declarations, sets out first of all the nature and scope of the Agreement, and then sets out as general principles and the aims of bilateral cooperation, sustainable economic development and international security. In particular, the commitment of the parties to ensure coordination of judicial cooperation initiatives is of particular importance. Title IV (Articles 12 to 22) lays down in particular rules for cooperation in trade and investment, providing that the Parties take account of their respective levels of development, committing themselves to achieving better market access and greater transparency, as well as removing non-tariff barriers and restrictions on trade. Title V regulates bilateral cooperation in the field of justice, with particular reference to the fight against organised crime, corruption and drug trafficking. Title VI (Articles 27 to 51) regulates collaboration for socio-economic development, with regard to issues ranging from migration to education, from health to the environment, from agriculture to gender equality. Cooperation and assistance programmes on remnants of war, human rights, non-governmental organisations, culture, energy and small and medium-sized enterprises are also important. The institutional framework of the Agreement shall be entrusted to a Joint Committee, with the task of ensuring the proper functioning of the Agreement and its proper implementation, as well as of monitoring the development of bilateral relations. The draft ratification law consists of four articles which concern, respectively, the authorization to ratify, the order of execution, the financial coverage, and the entry into force. Economic burdens are estimated at around 10,000 euros per year. In conclusion, it is proposed that the Assembly approve this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u109	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u110	Madam President, I agree with what the rapporteur said about the importance of the measure. It concerns a country, as someone said before, certainly far away, but which has had a rather troubled historical path and therefore also needs agreements of this kind, which go in a direction that allows to establish a frank relationship between countries on a bilateral level. For this reason, I think that we can already anticipate the favourable attitude of our Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u111	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u114	Stitches (LN-Aut). Madam President, I have just anticipated my Group's vote in favour of this measure, which has been discussed a lot in the Commission, and I believe that we can refer to the Commission's reports to understand why there is a need to approve it. There is an opportunity to do so from a political point of view. I therefore repeat the vote in favour of the Northern League Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u117	LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, I am voting against the 5 Star Movement Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u120	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I am voting in favour of my Group, because it seems important to us to build and strengthen a diplomatic and economic relationship with the Agreement in question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u123	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u124	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u125	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2031, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Tronti, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u126	Madam President, as you know, this is about the ratification and implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation for the mutual recognition of qualifications issued by the Italian Republic and the Russian Federation, which took place in Rome on 3 December 2009. The agreement, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, aims to regulate the mutual recognition of periods and degrees for the purposes of access and continuation of studies in the universities of the two countries. The aim is of course to encourage student and work mobility, also promoting greater internationalization of our universities and the diffusion of the Italian language. The text consists of a preamble and six articles. Article 2 shows the correspondence between the degrees, indicating that the exact definition of the correspondence between the credits and the content of the courses is the responsibility of the individual universities. Article 3 also extends recognition to periods of study not completed and intended to continue in the academic institutions of the other Party. Article 5, on the basis of other similar agreements, establishes a Joint Committee of experts responsible for interpreting and explaining the Agreement. The draft ratification law consists of four articles, which provide for the authorisation of ratification, order of execution, financial coverage and entry into force. The economic charges are quantified in approximately 1,500 euros per year, every other year, starting in 2016. I would like to add a point that I think is important. I would also like to point out the symbolic importance of this ratification at a time when, for the facts known to all who have become worse these days, relations between Europe and Russia are particularly difficult. We are all convinced that the return of the Cold War is a risk that we cannot afford, neither from the economic point of view, nor above all from the point of view of our security and I would say, adding yet another consideration, not even from the purely historical-political point of view. It therefore seems to me significant that today, with a vote on this agreement, the dialogue between Italy and Russia is strengthened, starting precisely from the culture, the university and the movement of students and workers. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u127	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u128	Madam President, the rapporteur, Senator Tronti, has admirably explained the content of this measure. I would like to add two points, one in the general debate and the second in the explanation of vote. The Russian school system is a serious, rigid and meritocracy-based system, so it is necessary to proceed with the approval of this Agreement.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u129	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u130	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u132	Stitches (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am voting in favour of the North League's draft law and I am also making a second point: before I said that the Russian school system is serious, rigid, aimed at meritocracy and considers the skills of the students; unfortunately, there is the so-called 'good school' on the other hand, a system where there is an excellent school. It is therefore the Russians who must trust us, so this Agreement is signed for the benefit of our students, not so much the Russian students. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u135	LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, I would like to announce to the House the vote in favour of the Five Star Movement Group. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Zizza.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u138	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u139	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u140	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2057, already approved by the House of Deputies. The working rapporteur, Senator Corsini, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u141	, f. f. Madam President, this agreement responds to the need to develop new instruments for operational cooperation between the police forces of the two countries, in particular for the maintenance of public order and security, and in order to prevent the crime commission, in an extremely complex and sensitive international context. It is an Agreement signed already in 2012 but which, by very sad coincidence, is unfortunately of tragic topicality. As expressly stated in the preamble, the text is part of the existing European legislation on operational cooperation between security forces, in particular the Council of the European Union decisions no. 615 and 616 of 2008, in turn related to the Treaty of Prüm of 2005 (ratified by Italy by Law No 85 of 2009). The Agreement is linked to forecasts already in force of the Italian law, in particular to Decree-Law No. 93 of 2013, which concerns the possibility of joint police operations, regulating some practical profiles related to their performance on the national territory (the allocation of public qualifications to foreign agents, the use of weapons etc.). The agreement specifies first (Article 1) the competent authorities, which are the Department of Public Security of the Ministry of the Interior for the Italian part and the Directorate of International Cooperation of the Ministry of the Interior for the French part. Article 2 clarifies that cooperation concerns both the maintenance of public order and the prevention of offences, through the conduct of patrols agreed between the parties and the execution of joint police operations. Article 3 identifies the modalities of cooperation, providing for mutual assistance by the agents of the two countries, especially in activities involving Italian and French citizens. The employment and organisation of the service of the agents of the State of dispatch shall be carried out in accordance with the instructions of the competent authorities of the State of destination. The following Articles 4 and 5, in line with the decisions of the Council of the European Union referred to above, govern the use of weapons, ammunition and equipment, as well as vehicles. In all cases there is compliance with the rules of the State in which the operations are carried out, i.e. for Italy, the already mentioned article 7-a of Decree-Law No 93 of 2013. Article 6 requires Italy and France to provide the same protection and assistance to the staff of the other Party in the performance of their duties. The Agreement therefore specifies the dynamics related to civil and criminal liability, as well as to the employment relationship of agents engaged in the territory of the other Party. The total expenses are quantified in approximately 77,000 euros per year, starting from 2015, mainly attributable to mission expenses. The Agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation and takes into account existing legal instruments of cooperation on cross-border cooperation and in particular the two decisions of the Council of the European Union of 2008 already mentioned. In conclusion, it is proposed that the Assembly approve this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u142	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u143	Madam President, given the content of Mr Corsini's report and the extreme and dramatic topicality of the content of this ratification - as the rapporteur has already done - I am not left here to remind everyone of the urgency of his approval.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u144	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u147	Mr Bruni (CoR). Madam President, it is no coincidence that at this short distance from the events in Paris, which have painfully affected our country through the death of the young Valeria Solesin (which is to be remembered), we find ourselves ratifying the bilateral cooperation agreement between Italy and France for the execution of joint police operations, done in Lyon on 3 December 2012, which is precisely about cross-border cooperation in this area. In particular, it aims to regulate more in detail and to provide the necessary financial cover for common Italian-French police operations of a cross-border nature. In the context of and in compliance with existing legislation at European level, this draft law, which is hoped to be adopted rapidly, aims to create a specific legal instrument to regulate this form of operational cooperation between the Italian and French police forces and in concrete terms the procedures for carrying out joint operations. The ratification of this Treaty at this moment is a strong signal of our country's commitment to supporting a policy of security and careful vigilance, through all those prevention operations that very often, in order to be truly effective, must necessarily go beyond the territorial borders. The agreement further strengthens a very structured framework for cooperation, which was outlined over half a century ago and perfected over the decades; the entry into force of the new understanding, although it had to wait three years and a very delicate contingent situation for the agreement to come to Parliament, will help to combat more effectively the crime that affects our two countries and to strengthen the common front against the very serious terrorist threat. In particular, joint operations and patrols are planned in which the agents of the sending State will participate in operations in the territory of the other State, so-called destination. The most important profiles therefore concern the use of weapons, ammunition and other equipment - permitted only for self-defense - and the forms of civil liability of the State of dispatch for the damages caused by its agent in the State of destination. With this in mind, it will not be the Conservatives and Reformists Group that opposes an agreement that must strengthen the discipline of a joint and well-planned security action. We see on this enhanced cooperation between the two Police of the important perspectives, especially in the field of the fight against terrorism of the jihadist matrix and in the dismantling of the networks that manage the profitable business of illegal immigration; without forgetting that alongside a joint security policy must also be implemented effective cooperation at the economic and financial level, strengthening all those tools that allow to follow the criminal plans through the displacement of money and the trafficking of weapons. The massacre in Paris and the ongoing flight of the only surviving terrorist, the missing kamikaze that the police are hunting all over Europe, have shown how a reinforced collaboration between the National Police can no longer be done without bilateral cooperation, but of widespread cooperation, especially between those countries that we know are most at risk of terrorist events, precisely because they maintain in a coherent and stubborn way their strong cultural identity. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u148	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u150	Stitches (LN-Aut). Madam President, I agree with the previous speaker: surely the tragic events of 13 November (and, I add, those of 7 January by Charlie Hebdo) and Valeria's smile all call for responsibility. This measure has already passed to the House without any vote against; I hope that the same thing will happen here too. It is an important signal that must be given, also because this is the only instrument we have in order to fight a common enemy. It is a very strong enemy, that you can only beat if you are united, only if you decide certain strategies together, only if you share information. From this point of view, we are voting strongly in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u151	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u153	SCIBONA (M5S). President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are ratifying an agreement between our country and France, signed by the relevant ministers in December 2012. This text appears in truth subtle, deliberately inaccurate in some parts and now abundantly surpassed by time and events. Let's not hide it, let's not turn around. In this text we do not see paragraph 1-a of Article 2, which best specified the concept of the maintenance of public order, that is, joint operations of riot police in those cross-border scenarios for territory or intent: the TAV yard of Chiomonte in Valle di Susa, with the feared NoTav, the frontier of Ventimiglia with migrants, just to give two examples. As far as the great useless work is concerned, we have already given to French law the controls and the legislation applied, creating an area of pseudo-extraterritoriality in Chiomonte. It is no coincidence that TELT, the promoter responsible for the construction of the geognostic tunnel and the management of the cross-border section of the new line, is a company governed by French law. We now provide the legal outline to ensure that those manganellete - which abound there - have a French aftertaste and the great problem of the advocates of public order will be to understand how it translates tonfa into French. Such a speech applies to border territories; I think of Ventimiglia, where we will facilitate France to reject immigrants and not to return them, but to reject them on our territory, leaving us, as always, the burden of dealing with them. I also remember that on the Austrian side there is already such an agreement to ensure that migrants cannot leave Italy; in fact, the Austrian police operate on our trains, on our territory, pushing up to twenty kilometers inside our Italian soil and acting with full autonomy. I am honored to report some events that tell how some migrants come, without too much care, pushed down by the trains. As we go through the text of the Treaty, we cannot fail to focus on those parts that talk about equipment and uniforms. It will be at least curious to see the French agents with the code identification on the uniforms that carry out operations with the Italian Police instead completely anonymous. In fact, it has been since November 2012 that France has adopted identifying elements on the uniforms of the police while from us the question is covered up in the Senate, where a bill of the Movement 5 Stars and other bills with the same theme, lie "dead" in the 1st Commission, victims of the excuses and the temporeggios of Minister Alfano, with the complicity of the Democratic Party, which - it is known - has collided with anti-democraticism, hates transparency and winks at violence. An agreement, therefore, badly done, which only meets the needs of those economic interests that support election campaigns. By the way, this ratification is timelessly absurd. This agreement was signed three years ago in a completely different political situation; you should be ashamed of this ratification that is taking place now. But, you know, shame goes hand in hand with dignity: if one is missing, there cannot be the other. An agreement on counter-terrorism would have served. We would have liked to read measures to strengthen the intelligence communications of their respective countries, perhaps to prevent all over Northern Italy looking for a black Seat car with a terrorist on top when the same car has always been found and stopped the day before in France. We would have wanted a stop at the arms market to certain areas where terrorists are sheltered. We would have liked police controls and operations aimed at preventing the terrible attacks we saw in Paris. We would actually like international cooperation on defence and security, dealt with in a serious and responsible way, and above all on European planning. There is no such thing in this Agreement. Here there is only one guideline, full of ambiguous passages and art of free interpretation. Here there is only the will to cooperate to suppress the legitimate dissent and protests - uncomfortable in power - of citizenship. We are not here and, in your language, we are going to vote in favour of this ratification. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u156	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u157	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u158	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1827. The working rapporteur, Senator Maran, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u159	, f. f. Madam President, this House is called upon to examine the Additional Agreement to the 1971 Convention between Italy and Morocco on Mutual Legal Assistance and the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons: documents signed in April 2014. The Additional Agreement to the 1971 Convention aims to improve cooperation between the two countries and to strengthen the fight against international crime. The Agreement, which follows the model of the 1957 Council of Europe Convention, consists of 11 articles. Article 2 in particular introduces rules on the non-applicability of the death penalty. Articles 3 and 4 provide for a number of cases where there may be a refusal to extradite (political crimes, well-founded fears that there are risks of discrimination against the person, cases of amnesty or grace, etc.). The Convention's rules restricting extradition in the field of customs and exchange charges and taxes are also repealed. The Agreement does not involve financial burdens for our country. The second Agreement is intended to allow the transfer into its State of citizenship of citizens held in the territory of the other State, in order to facilitate their re-education and reintegration. The instrument is necessary because Morocco did not accede to the 1983 Council of Europe Convention and the subsequent 1987 Additional Protocol. The Convention under consideration, consisting of 22 articles, provides that the transfer of prisoners does not apply to persons with dual nationality and also applies only if the judgment is enforceable, if the period to be atoned is longer than the year and if the offence committed is foreseen as such by the other State as well. The transfer may be requested by the State, but under no circumstances may it take place without the express consent of the sentenced person. The Convention provides, in any case, that the prisoner cannot be tried, arrested and condemned for the same facts that have already led to the conviction in the other State. There are also forecasts in relation to the documents to be submitted in support of the transfer application, the language of translation of the documents, the manner of delivery of the transferred person and so on. The draft ratification law consists of four articles which form the basis for the authorisation of ratification, order of implementation, financial coverage and entry into force of the texts. The charges, based on an estimate of 200 annual transfers, are estimated at around 340,000 euros per year. Finally, it is pointed out that the two bilateral agreements do not present profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, with the European Union's legal system and with the other international obligations assumed by our country. I would point out that the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Emigration approved an amendment to the text of the draft law, receiving the opinion of the Budget Commission. It is therefore proposed that the Assembly approve this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u160	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u161	Madam President, I would just like to point out that this is an important agreement because it concerns the execution of extradition sentences and the transfer of convicted persons. Of course, there is the bond of consent of the condemned person, which is also provided for in all ratifications of similar agreements. This is also an important agreement because of the country with which it was concluded. Our federal secretary, Matteo Salvini, went to Morocco a few weeks ago and in addition to having received a welcome of all respect, he also found a country convinced that we can work together, to address sensitive issues such as those we are considering, as well as, of course, economic aspects and measures capable of preventing illegal immigration. Even by means of signals of this kind, we give certainty to the citizens who are going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u162	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u163	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u165	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Madam President, the draft law before us comes to the House all of a sudden, like the one discussed yesterday, namely the Senate Act 2132, of which Senator Sangalli was rapporteur, who received an examination of about ten minutes, including the illustration of the bill. 11:45 a.m. (Berrottota followed). We note with regret that the method adopted by the Government - and I regret to say that the Presidency is complacent, because it is a timetable of supersonic measures of this magnitude - is not correct, and above all does not comply with democratic rules, which, on the other hand, would require particular insights. Today two agreements, both signed in April 2014, are claimed to be ratified between the Italian Government of Matteo Renzi and that of the Kingdom of Morocco and concern, respectively, the amendment of the Convention of mutual legal assistance and the new Convention on the transfer of sentenced persons. In addition, we are about to ratify the Additional Agreement to the Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance, Enforcement of Judgments and Extradition between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco of 12 February 1971. If we were to separate these ratifications from reality, they should be authorized de plano, yet they need to be studied well, especially where they concern situations that the news talk about for days and which, with the exception of some more sensitive ones, pass easily into the government's oblivion. I refer to cases such as that concerning Abdel Majid Touil, the young Moroccan arrested in Milan last May because he was suspected of having played a role in the attack on the National Museum of the Bard of Tunis on 18 March, of which the fifth section of the Milan Criminal Court, at first, decided not to extradite Tunisia, because in that country there is the death penalty. It is news of October 28 that the Milan Court of Appeal revoked the precautionary measure against Touil. This means that its release has been arranged and, if so, means that justice has not found a causal link between the conduct of this Moroccan and the event of the attack. The 5 Star Movement has always been in favour of ratifications relating to cooperation between States when it comes to extradition, but surely it would never allow to extradite a foreigner to a country in which he would be sentenced to death. The Movement is for life, but it is also for the respect of the laws and on the case it seems to me that they hang of the halos, as it seems that the same Moroccan, after the disembarkation happened to Porto Empedocle last 17 February, had already been hit by a measure of refusal issued by the quaestor of Agrigento, with the order to leave the territory of the State within seven days, provision that Touil has not complied with. His position shows profiles of irregularities on the Italian territory and, for this reason, it seems to me that an expulsion order has been adopted against him. Of course, it cannot be allowed to ratify the agreement under discussion in individual cases, but we believe that this should also be the case, i.e. by reducing the measures in reality. The 5 Star Movement, despite - I repeat - does not accept the method that the Government is using, will certainly be in favour of measures of this type, as it considers it important to allow the transfer into its State of citizenship of those who are held in the territory of another State, in order to facilitate their re-education and social reintegration. Among other things, the instrument of extradition is necessary since Morocco has not joined, not even as a third country, the 1983 Council of Europe Convention of Strasbourg and the subsequent 1987 Additional Protocol. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of this measure by my Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u166	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u168	Stitches (LN-Aut). Mr President, I have already pointed out the reasons why we share the approval of this measure and all I have to do is repeat them here. I therefore declare the North League Group's vote in favour of the draft ratification law under consideration. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u169	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u171	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u172	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u173	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1965, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Maran, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u174	Mr President, this document provides for the renewal of the founding agreement, dating back to 2001, of the European Office of the World Health Organisation for Investment in Health and Development, which is based in Venice, for an initial period of five years, renewable for a further five years. The aim is to strengthen the existing cooperation between the Italian Government and the World Health Organisation (WHO), as well as to pursue the objectives of promoting health and reducing inequalities between Member States in health care through the strategies set out in the new European reference policy. The tasks of the Venetian office of the WHO have been greatly expanded precisely with the adoption in 2012, by the 53 European member states, of the document . 2020: Health 2020, which defines the primary areas of action: investment in health through a targeted approach to health throughout the existence, health challenges in the field of diseases; strengthening of health systems centered on the person and capacity of public health. The Agreement, which consists of 11 articles, regulates: in Article 1, the organizational structure of the WHO office in Venice, providing for the appointment of the head of the office and of the staff under the regime, up to a maximum of 12 units. Article 2 outlines the main areas of the Office's activities, in particular for the implementation of the forecasts of the "Health 2020" document, while Article 3 regulates its operational structures. Article 4 defines the contributions of the Ministry of Health and the Veneto Region in support of the office, starting from the costs for the rental of the headquarters (300,000 euros per year charged to the Veneto Region) and for the staff and the operating activities (600,000 euros per year charged to the Ministry of Health). Article 5 regulates the status of staff, making it equivalent to the staff of the World Health Organization also for the purposes of applying the immunities and privileges granted for the free exercise of their duties, while Article 6 outlines the administrative and financial management and reporting of contributions, subjecting them to internal and external control and to the rules, regulations and procedures applicable to the WHO. The following articles govern the way in which the WHO Office of Venice cooperates with the Italian institutions, in line with the National Health Plan, in accordance with the Office's responsibilities (Article 7) and the relevant international privileges and immunities (Article 8). Article 9 provides for a detailed work plan for the first two years of activity within the duration of the Agreement, as well as a forecast of the main areas of activity, as defined in the two annexes to the basic text. The draft ratification law consists of five articles providing for approval of ratification, order of execution, financial cover, the possibility of posting staff to the WHO European Office and entry into force. The economic charges are quantified in 540,000 euros annually from the year 2016. The Agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national law, Community law and other international obligations entered into by our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u175	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u176	Mr President, I apologise to my fellow Members if this time I have to extend more than usual, but this measure concerns all of us as regards sensitive aspects and health is certainly one of the things to which those who govern must pay the utmost attention. This is a measure that needs to be carefully read, developed and analysed in all its forecasts, especially with regard to the 2020 Health Plan, which involve important choices in terms of health policy. Addressing the problems of diseases and public health and those of the daily lives of so many citizens who are often forced to deal with inadequate health structures or a health service that is not up to the task of dealing with serious diseases that compromise their lives is an improbable challenge, which calls us all to a series of responsibilities, the first of which is to make money available. Unfortunately, however, we see that the Government, despite proposing this type of ratifications, then goes in the opposite direction and in the law of stability provides for further cuts to the Regions, which in our country are the agencies that provide this kind of services, essential for the life of all of us. Of course, the Group to which I belong will vote in favour of this ratification, but from the political point of view there is a contradiction between those who, on the one hand, marry the line of action that involves commitment on certain issues and on a whole series of initiatives and measures that go in the direction of protecting the health of citizens and, on the other hand, when there is to be implemented these agreements, declining them within their own countries (by us with the laws of stability) not even manages to identify the resources that serve to guarantee minimum standards. Thus, in the area of health we cannot understand the issue of standard costs, which is certainly one of the priorities that must be addressed, because waste exists and must be fought, but often there is no political will to do so. This contradiction cannot be silenced, because it is felt on its own skin by all citizens who are already touched in the living flesh by a situation that in some areas of the country is really unacceptable. There is often talk of health tourism or travel of hope. Unfortunately, since the succession of three governments not chosen by the citizens, the situation has gone away worsening, despite the excellences that exist in our country. In fact, if it is right to criticize and highlight everything that does not work with the hope that someone will put a hand in it, it is equally correct to say that there are realities that work best by providing the service that citizens expect. There are few, unfortunately, but they are the models to follow. This ratification moves all of us to be more concrete and realistic, to look at what can be done and to do everything best. So, rather than looking at our country thinking that we have the solution for all the problems in our pockets, I think it would be appropriate to look at the experiences of countries close to us in the European Union to mutualize them and copy them - if you pass me the term - for the benefit of our citizens, because as we are moving forward on sensitive issues such as health and health, we will hardly be able to comply with the 2020 Plan and achieve the results provided for in this Agreement. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u177	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u178	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u179	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 11.59 a.m. and resumed at 12.23 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u180	We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u181	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u183	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for the quorum to be checked again. First, however, I would like to stigmatize the behaviour of this majority: today there are 59 colleagues on mission and there is no quorum in this House. This one has incredible. We are voting on ratifications with a number that is absolutely ridiculous. There's not even a quorum. I ask you if this is the way to work! Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u184	I am obliged to remind you that, among others, a NATO event is taking place in Florence where several Members of the Senate and the President of the Foreign Commission themselves have gone. So there are also absences due to commitments. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the draft law n. 1965 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote Rule 1. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I put to the vote Rule 3. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. Verification of SANTANGELO (M5S) quorum. We're asking for a quorum check. [[Comments from the PD Group]] The Rules of Procedure allow it. It is useless to complain. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the draft law n. 1965 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote Rule 4. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall therefore proceed to the final vote. FALANGA (AL-A). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u185	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u186	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u187	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that next January will be a massacre for many families. More than 350,000 workers will remain without unemployment benefit, because this majority has forced - and therefore without listening to our calls in the Labour Commission - to amend the legislation on unemployment benefit, leaving out a particular category of unemployment benefit which is that of seasonal workers. Already during the examination of the Stability Act we proposed some amendments. I would also like to point out that the amendment we tabled to the stability bill, which you rejected, was a proposal of common sense and provided for minimum coverage, but that was not accepted either. We therefore call on the Minister for Labour and the Commission to work for the House of Deputies to approve the amendments relating to seasonal work, because this is a strategic sector for Italy. At this point we must agree: when we go on television and talk so much about the fact that Italy is a fantastic country, a country that must welcome and that can live on tourism, these are words; the facts, however, are all the regulatory acts, as in this case, that go far from in favour of tourism. It is therefore the duty of all of us to ensure that seasonal workers are again considered for what they are, that is, a special and particular category of Italy. In conclusion, Mr President, I also appeal once again to the Democratic Party: make our proposals yours and submit them. Let this category see the right that you have taken away from it restored again. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u188	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u189	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u190	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all the media are talking about this now, but in these classrooms, unfortunately, silence is embarrassing. I am referring to the affair involving two Italian journalists, Emiliano Fittipaldi and Gianluigi Nuzzi, in a trial in the Vatican City State which severely undermines the freedom of the press. The process affixes to their two books, "Avarizia" and "Via Crucis" in which they disseminate and comment on documents concerning the system of economic and political power within the Vatican State. Our Constitution, in Article 21, would defend their positions, as well as the Charter of Human Rights, while in the Vatican land these principles are absent. Given the scandals that, by now constantly, concern ecclesiastical institutions, health scandals and events related to luxurious apartments on the Italian territory, to games of power in the management of voting packages that unfortunately have in the exploitation of the Catholic religion in these classrooms, I think it is scandalous that nothing is done about it and that a situation of law is not restored. The Vatican operates a lot on Italian territory and is very greedy on many issues of our State and it would be necessary to have a relationship of loyalty and mutual recognition of human rights and freedom of the press. This indolence on the part of the Italian State, on the other hand, goes to sanction an irresponsible subjection to anti-democratic rules and a legitimization of the same. I do not find it inappropriate to publish news and surveys concerning the structure of the Church and the Vatican, precisely because it is often linked directly with the events of our country. We are a secular state, although for electoral reasons many in here often forget it. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u191	Senator Fattori, it is not up to me to reply, but it is about events that invest another state that denounces a theft of documents, which seems objective to have happened. And the theft, even in Italy, is not allowed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u192	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u194	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, this is not the first time I have spoken on the issue of the landfill of special non-dangerous waste in Montignoso. I think it is useful to remember that the landfill was created to close the cycle of the marble industry, to receive therefore only the marmetola coming mainly from the Apuan quarries. Now, that the hose derived from marble processing is no longer considered special waste and therefore the landfill is no longer at the service of the territory and the requirements for which it was built, the municipalized ASM Prato, a company that controls the Apuan Environment Programme SpA and that manages the landfill, is determined to advertise 49 percent of the private quotas. Given the precarious financial status of the company - only to the Municipality of Montignoso owes over 180,000 euros of royalties 2014-2015 (recognition of environmental damage) and already has an installment plan for another 200,000 euros with the same - we are concerned that it requires other CER codes or reclassify that site in order to make it even more attractive to speculative interests. Since the beginning of 2014, we have been waiting for an answer to the question 4-01703, presented to the attention of the Minister of the Environment, to understand whether the site is actually suitable or not to be classified as a landfill, in relation to Law No 36 of 2003, which identifies sites suitable for the cultivation of landfills. I remember that the area of the landfill is close to an area of naturalistic and environmental value and that part of the site is part of the constraint of the landscape plan of the Lake of Porta (ex Galasso law, 300 meters from the lakes and 150 meters from the rivers). During the environmental controls provided for in the monitoring plan, contaminations have also emerged in the control pieces and ARPAT has several times reported to the judicial authority the operators for violation and crimes in the delivery of waste. In addition, in December 2014 the Prefecture of Massa Carrara revoked the anti-mafia certification to the Apuan Environment Programme. I therefore urgently request a reply from the Minister and I hope that Governor Rossi, given that the competence of the landfill has become regional, will take on board this problem, which is worrying the territory very much. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u195	I would like to greet the students and the teachers of the Technical Institute of Education (Antonio Pacinotti) in Scafati, in the province of Salerno, who entered the Chamber while finishing the sitting with the votes. We are now at the end of the sitting, a practice whereby, at the end of the sitting, after the votes, some senators explain individual issues. It is almost an external phase to the formal work of the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u196	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u198	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I rise to bring to the attention of the offices, the Presidency and the other senators an episode which I do not find disturbing, which occurred on Monday afternoon in the Municipality of Saronno. With the mayor, I went to visit the premises of the former Isotta Fraschini, long occupied by the social center TeLOS in Saronno. A situation of illegality that has become unbearable for a long time, which always accompanies and punctually accompanies acts that suffer or limit violence at public demonstrations. The result, Mr President, was to receive death threats from the mayor of Saronno, Beans, and myself who was present. A grave circumstance, of which I have made known the perfect, and which must always remind us that with respect to lawlessness there can be no tolerance, especially when it binds to violent subjects. The people who are in there are linked to a dangerous antagonism, against which I believe it is necessary that there is a full awareness on the part of the authorities, so that these characters are brought back to terms of law, respect and above all coexistence. There can be no tolerance towards those who push up to this level of threat. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u199	The Presidency, in taking note of its signal, naturally expresses solidarity with him and with the Mayor of Saronno for these serious threats, which must be condemned.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u200	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u201	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u202	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to yet another very serious delay in the regional government of Veneto. In March 2013, two and a half years ago, the Veneto Regional Council unanimously voted on the recognition of multiple chemical sensitivity as a rare disease, together with other initiatives for diagnosis and treatment and the measure entered into force as a law of the Veneto Region. It is now possible, for doctors and healthcare professionals, to use protocols for the reception of patients with this disease, protocols presented by some Regions and ASL and also by different States and foreign institutions. There are also a number of binding EU acts, such as regulations, directives and decisions, dealing with this rare disease. In Veneto there is a situation confirmed by the regional health council member, who declared that the economic accounts of the health companies in Veneto have closed 2013 in active. This means that, for the fourth consecutive year, the health budget has closed down. The governor of the Veneto Region and the health advisors received 38 letters from mayors of as many municipalities, who asked to carry out all the actions of competence so that they could arrive in a short time to the application of the above-mentioned law, in order to give appropriate assistance to people suffering from multiple chemical sensitivity. Similarly, the President of the Veneto Region and the Councillors have received several personal e-mails, countersigned by many people who are ill with this disease and I regret to find in this House that no one has been deserving of a rag of response. A rag of response to sick people of a serious disease, I think at least formally it is due. Having said this, after more than nine hundred days, the Veneto Region has failed to take any step forward with regard to the approved law, although there has been time, financial coverage, sharing of problems also by the Directorates General of ASL, involvement and participation by the sick people and also by the Veneto Committee multiple chemical sensitivity. I therefore ask the Government to take an interest in this issue and I urge the Veneto Region to take care of it as soon as possible. [[Applause from Senator Paglini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u203	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u204	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u205	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, I wanted to say that in this building there is a room called "Maccari" from the name of the painter who created the works that embellish the place. In one of these paintings, the painter depicts Cicero who is arriving against Catilina, who is isolated and nervous. I don't presume to compare myself to Cicero, but I can, quite rightly, compare Catilina and her group of conspirators to our government and the parties that support him. I say all this because with the legislative decree n. 159 of 2015, which entered into force on October 22 last, Equitalia is authorized not to cancel the arrest warrant and the mortgage on the house, already at the expense of the insolvent citizen who has requested the installment of the debt. If the taxpayer has not paid the last instalment, he will no longer be able to enter into full possession of his means or sell his home at market prices: this is what you are doing. Before this insane legislative decree, the delay involved that stop cars and mortgages were cancelled at the payment of the first instalment. It is clear that the taxpayer, returning to the possession of his assets, undertook to honour the installments as the non-payment involved the re-application of the precautionary measures and the impossibility of a new installment. Why in a situation of serious economic crisis have you not thought of a unification of the phase of recovery of the credits and instead you have, once again, Equitalia of an ulterior instrument coercive? Why did you do that? Because you are incapable of dealing seriously with the phenomenon of tax evasion. Direct your attention to the weakest to safeguard only some, only those you want to protect, only those with whom you exchange. However, all this will continue to do so until the patience of the citizens prevails. It will end, and then the conspiracy that you, Mr Catilina, have undertaken towards citizenship will have the right historical place, with your disappearance from Parliament. [[Applause from Senator Fattori.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u206	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u207	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u208	PHASE (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you all know, yesterday an important Conference was held in the House, to celebrate the international day against violence against women, a conference that has removed all the open issues, all the battles still unresolved. It is a challenge that must be built every day, in a path that involves school, family and social. Far from the ritual of a day, therefore, but still a long path, an educational path that, as President Mattarella has said, is aimed at the protection of the rights of all and of all and is the basis of civil life. Culture and school are the best antidotes to physical and psychological violence, prejudice and discrimination, which still seem so difficult to break down. It is precisely from these worlds that cultural revolution must begin which can form the new generations - and I am pleased that there are students in the forums - to equality between the sexes and respect for gender differences, of all differences. In the same way, the importance of anti-violence centres and family consultors, supported by the competent operation and activism of voluntary associations, which are now indispensable, must be stressed. In this delicate phase of reorganization of the new health companies, consultors, sometimes poorly involved, must be able to carry out and expand their function in accordance with a historically recognized identity. The enhancement of both family consultors and anti-violence centers responds to specific problems of many women in difficulty, who often find no voice, the right assistance or the right supports to get out of the tunnel and normalize their life experience. Even today, therefore, thanks to all these associations that are making the network of volunteering and social health care, to the qualified interventions, to the many teachers, women and men, who work for the harmonious growth of the young generations in mutual respect. A necessary and urgent growth. To look at the data of 69 of the 73 anti-violence centers belonging to DiRe: 16,678 women are welcomed in these houses, so the road is still all uphill.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u209	I would like to take this opportunity to say that yesterday the House took a commendable initiative, as you mentioned, chaired by President Boldrini. Too bad that, according to what I have read, it seems that some parliamentary groups have complained about the exclusion of their members from an institutional initiative. If the news were true, it would be very serious for the President of the House to have done this discrimination.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u210	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u211	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u212	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the TV show "Sereno variabile" which aired on 7 November last year, a great deal of time has been devoted to the House of Incarceration in Volterra, and in particular to the professional and educational activities organized in the prison for the social recovery of prisoners. Accompanied by the prison director, the tailoring workshop was shown and the project "Cene galeotte" was told, an experience that has been repeated for many years now and in which the prison organizes, through the work and commitment of the prisoners, dinners open to the public. What impressed me very much, knowing that reality, is that no mention was made of the most successful activity that was born inside the prison and that received the greatest awards and awards. I am referring to the theatre company of the Fortress, which since 1988 produces on average one show per year, presented both inside the house of imprisonment and outside on the occasion of theatrical seasons, festivals and events. It is impossible here to underline all the benefits that derive from this activity for the prisoner, for the prison structure and also for citizenship. But I would just remind you that the Medici Fortress, at the moment, is not equipped with adequate spaces to increase the effectiveness of the potential created. Thanks to the provision of a suitable theatrical structure, a series of additional activities could be carried out involving the employment of the workforce, as well as the training of all the workers who take part in the implementation of a theatrical show, that is all those figures who can, thanks to the training path done inside the prison, spend the professionalism gained outside the structure at the end of the sentence. It would be the first stable prison theatre in the world, an existing project that is still waiting to receive proper consideration from the institutions. The Government is still waiting to answer the question 3-01144, at the first signature of Senator Montevecchi and signed by me, filed on July 30, 2014, which informs and interests the Minister of Justice precisely about this issue and of which, for the reasons I have set out, I request urgent consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-543.ana.u213	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.49 p.m.
