ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 22 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u3	The next item is the President's statement on the timetable for proceedings. Colleagues, the Conference of Leaders approved the new timetable until 20 November. The agenda for today's sitting is supplemented by the examination of the Decree-Law on measures for public finance. The sitting will end once the general debate has been concluded. The amendments will have to be tabled by 7 p.m. this evening. The examination of the measure will continue in the single sitting tomorrow, with suspension from 1 p.m. to 4.30 p.m. The schedule of the week also provides for the follow-up to the discussion of the related environmental bill as well as the President's communications on the draft Stability Act, pursuant to Rule 126, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Rules of Procedure, which will be delivered to the Assembly as soon as the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission is received. The budget session will then begin. The Commission will have to submit its reports to the 5th Permanent Commission by Wednesday 4 November. The Budget Commission will complete its work on the financial documents by Friday 13. Amendments to the draft stability and budgetary law will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Saturday 14 November, so that the debate in the House can begin on Monday 16, and be completed by Friday 20 November. Next week, in addition to the possible follow-up of the unfinished drafts of law, the decree-law on the use of the historical and artistic heritage, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, will be examined. The timetable for the single meetings provided for in the next week's calendar shall take into account the work of the Commissions on budgetary documents. The Assembly will not be holding its session this week from 10 to 12 November. Pursuant to Rule 126 (12) of the Rules of Procedure, unanimity of the Heads of Groups was acquired in order to allow the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to continue the examination of the draft law for the reform of the third sector during the budgetary session. The Heads of Group also agreed on the President's proposal to limit the short-term reporting of the work of the Commissions, with regard to draft budget and stability laws, to the meetings of the 5th Commission devoted to hearings held jointly with the approved Commission of the Chamber of Deputies. Finally, in order to enable the work of the 5th standing Commission to be carried out during the budgetary session, it was decided to set up on the premises of the Health Commission, with effect from 5 November, special spaces for the representatives of bodies and associations.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u4	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - in accordance with Article 53 of the Regulation - the following programme of the Senate's work for the months of October, November and December 2015: - Drawing of law n. 1676 - Provisions in environmental matters to promote green economy measures and for the containment of the excessive use of natural resources (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies for the months of October, November and December 2015: - Draft of law n. 1676 - Provisions in environmental matters in order to promote green economy measures and for the containment of the excessive use of natural resources (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Linked to the financial maneueueu) (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Draft of law n. 2081 and related - Regulation of civil unions between persons of the same sex and the discipline of cohabits - Draft of law n. 10-362-388-39-5874-B - Introduction of the law n. n. 1917 - Provisions concerning the participation in the participation of Italy to international missions in international missions and amended to the Italian missions (A, in the Italian) 30, as amended in the law in the law in the law n in the Chamber of the Chamber of the Chamber of the Chamber of the Chamber of the Chamber of the Chamber of the Chamber of the Chamber of the Chamber of the Chamber of the Chamber of the Chamber of the Chamber of the Chamber of the Chamber of the Chamber of the Chamber of the Chamber of the Chamber of the Chamber of the Chamber of the Chamber of the law n. - 16, in the law n. - 16, in the law n. - 16, in the law n. - 16, in the law n. - 16, in the law, in the law, in the law n 10-36, in the law n. 10-36, in the law n. 10-36, in the law n. 10-36, in the law n, in the law n, in the law n. 10-36, in the law n. 10-36, in the law n. 10-36, in the law n. 10-36, in the law n. 10-36, in the law n. 10-36, in the law, and amended, and amended, and amended, and amended, and amended, in the law, in the law,
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u5	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 20 November 2015: [[Tuesday, October 27 pom. h. 16,30 - Drawing of law n. 2070 - Decree-Law n. 153, measures for public finance (Final vote by 31 October) (It falls on 29 November) (General discussion) Wednesday, 28 October ant. h. 9.30-20 (suspension from 1 p.m. to 4.30 p.m.) - Follow-up to draft law n. 2070 - Decree-Law n. 153, measures for public finance (final vote by 31 October) (Event on 29 November) - Follow-up to draft law n. 1676 - Environmental provisions (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Contributed to the financial manoeuvre) (Final vote with the presence of the quorum) - Communications by the President, pursuant to Article 126, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Regulation, on the content of the draft law of stability (*) Thursday 29 " ant. h. 9,30-14]] Amendments to draft law No 2070 (Law No 153, measures for public finance) will have to be tabled by 7 p.m. on Tuesday 27 October. (*) The budget session will begin shortly after the President's communications. The Commission will have to submit its reports to the 5th Permanent Commission by Wednesday 4 November. The Budget Commission will conclude its work on the financial documents by Friday 13 November. Amendments to the draft stability and budgetary law should be submitted to the Assembly by 1 p.m. on Saturday 14 November. [[Tuesday 3 November pom. h. 16-19 - Following any unfinished drafts of law - Drawing of law n. 2110 - Decree-Law n. 146, use of historical and artistic heritage (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (It falls on 20 November) Wednesday 4 " ant. h. 11-20 (suspension from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.) Thursday 5 " ant. h. 9,30-12]] Amendments to bill No 2110 (Decree Law No 146, use of historical and artistic heritage) should be tabled no later than 5 p.m. on Tuesday, 3 November. In the week from 10 to 12 November the Assembly will not hold meetings to allow the examination of financial documents by the 5th standing Commission. ***** [[Monday, November 16 pom. h. 16-20,30 - Legal drawings no. 2111 and 2112 - Stability Act 2016 and Budget Act 2016 and Multiannual Budget 2016-2018 (Final ratings with the presence of the quorum) Tuesday 17 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16-20,30 Wednesday 18 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16-20,30 Thursday 19 " ant. h. 9.30-13.30 " " " pom. h. 16-20,30 Friday 20 " ant. h. 9,30]] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2070 (Decree-Law No 153, measures for public finance) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 30' Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 3 hours and 30 minutes, including: PD 47' FI-PdL XVII 24' M5S 22' AP (NCD-UDC) 22' Mixed 20' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 17' AL-A 15' LN-Aut 14' GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M) 14' CoR 14' Dissentienti 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1676 (Environmental provisions) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, including: PD 1 h. 8' FI-PdL XVII 35' M5S 32' AP (NCD-UDC) 31' Mixed 29' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI- MAJE 24' AL-A 21' LN-Aut 21' GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M) 20' CoR 20' Dissententi 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2110 (Decree-Law No 146, use of historical and artistic heritage) (4 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 30' Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 2 hours and 30 minutes, including: PD 34' FI-PdL XVII 17' M5S 16' AP (NCD-UDC) 16' Mixed 14' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI- MAYE 12' AL-A 11' LN-Aut 10' GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M) 10' COR 10' Dissentienti 5']] Breakdown of time limits for the discussion of draft law Nos. 2111 and 2112 (Law of Stability 2016 and Budget Law 2016 and Multiannual Budget 2016-2018) (32 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Majority Rapporteurs 3 h. Minority Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 3 h. Votes 5 h. Groups 20 hours, of which: PD 4 h. 31' FI-PdL XVII 2 h. 18' M5S 2 h. 7' AP (NCD-UDC) 2 h. 5' Mixed 1 h. 54' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI- MAJE 1 h. 37' AL-A 1 h. 26' LN-Aut 1 h. 22' GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M) 1 h. 19' COR 1 h. 19' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u8	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, telling the group leader is always useful for those who follow us from home. We had holes that could be filled with the necessary measures. First of all, we had a hole this afternoon so we reversed the calendar by moving the environmental connection. My request was to immediately schedule the authorization to execute a precautionary measure of house arrests for Senator Giovanni Bilardi. I understand that this is a particular request because it probably creates a political problem, but I would remind the House that the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities concluded its work on 9 September, so it is a month and a half that Senator Billardi is free because of this House. So the request for a timetable is to work on this measure immediately. The other request concerns Thursday 5 November. We realized that there are still spaces and the proposals of the 5 Star Movement are useful. There is a motion by Senator Girotto concerning the stabilisation of the ecobonus, No 421, which I ask you to schedule for Thursday 5 November, a day on which - I remind everyone - the timetable provided for the work to begin at 11 a.m., but for fear that the quorum would be absent (because these are the fears that come to the meeting of the Leaders), it was preferred to set at 9.30 a.m. In that same morning I ask you to schedule also the motions n. 422 on the Davide Cervia case, at the first signature of Senator Crimi, and n. 293, presented by Senator Cappelletti, on the MOSE and the Consorzio Venezia new. At the same time, I ask that a motion tabled by Senator Cotti be scheduled on 29 April, No 405, which collected the signatures of more than 20% of the senators and which intends to commit the Government not to proceed with the acquisition of the hardware and software requirements necessary to equip the various versions of the F-35. That is my request, but I would remind you that the motions signed by over 20% of the senators must be scheduled within a month and you, Mr President, have the right to call an additional sitting for this. This is the request to modify the calendar made by the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u9	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings, just put forward by Senator Castaldi. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u11	Excuse me, Senator Paglini, you have to say what you're doing. The order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We have the right to warn the Presidency first about what we want to do. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). What should you warn about the order of business? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So let it be clear that we have a modus operandi for which the order of business, meanwhile, is established by the President and the comments on the Rules of Procedure and the order of business must be announced. SANTANGELO (M5S). What are you talking about? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is a modus operandi, a practice always practiced and accepted. SANTANGELO (M5S). But it's not! You're doing it now! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If the Holding Company wants to intervene, the Holding Company will intervene on the order of business. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). What are you talking about? It's no use nodding! CASTALDI (M5S). President. - Mr Pollini cannot speak on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, that's not new. It is a problem of relations between the House and the Presidency, between the senators and the Presidency. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] Senator Santangelo, have a seat. [[Comments of Senators Cappelletti and Marton.]] Because there's this way of proceeding, so... SANTANGELO (M5S). It's not like that. It's been changed now. CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I speak for what Senator Paglini wants to ask. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Can't you say the theme, though? Please make yourself spokesperson. CASTALDI (M5S). I ask you to give Senator Paglini the floor. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We would like to know what you intend to do. CASTALDI (M5S). The subject is the Commission of Inquiry into the Moby Prince disaster, which fails to start. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pollini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u12	Mr President, I promise you that I will not waste any time in this House, but I would like to make an official request to you, since I have also sent a reminder to you on Thursday 22 October that the Committee of Inquiry into the Moby Prince disaster, voted unanimously on 22 July last, may finally begin its work, because probably - but perhaps you know this better - there are groups that have not yet presented the names of the Commissioners. That day we all voted for this Committee of Inquiry to start work as soon as possible: it was due to start in September, but we are at the end of October and nothing has yet been done. I understand that in this House the groups are being made, disposed of and sprung up like mushrooms, but I think it takes very little time to give a couple of names. I am also a spokesperson for the associations which have been calling for years to shed light on the Moby Prince disaster, partly because one of the leaders of one of these associations has already announced that from 1 November they will make an all-out hunger strike if this Commission does not start. We have all been so sensitive that we have largely approved its institution. Therefore, Mr President, I appeal to your authority so that as soon as possible this Commission can see the light, otherwise I have the doubt that someone here will vote on one thing, but think of another and since it has been twenty-four years that this matter is still, I believe that it is really time to clarify, not only about this disaster, but also about those who do not want to start this Commission of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u13	Senator Pollini, as you said, we wait. The Presidency has invited the Leaders to provide nominations for the members of the Commission and some have not yet responded, so we are waiting for these reports.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u14	The next item is the debate on draft law 2070. The rapporteur, Senator Rossi Gianluca, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, at the outset I would like to point out that this measure has been adopted in view of the need and urgency to take measures to ensure compensation for the financial effects of the European Commission's failure to authorise the reverse charge mechanism for VAT in the retail sector, as well as to allow a longer time limit for the submission of the request for access to the voluntary cooperation procedure and to contain the related periods of revocation for the investigation and the act of dispute. (16.49) (Rossi Gianluca followed). With regard to the neutralization of the safeguard clause, article 1, paragraph 629 (a), n. 3), paragraph d-quinquies of the law of stability for the year 2015 introduced the mechanism of the so-called reverse charge to the supplies of goods made against hypermarkets, supermarkets and food discount. The envisaged mechanism was temporary in nature and applied for a period of four years. I would remind you that reverse charge or reverse charge means a particular mechanism which provides for the transfer of a number of obligations relating to the way in which VAT is paid from the originator of goods and services to the purchaser. In this way, the purchaser is at the same time creditor and debtor of the charge, with the obligation to register the invoice both in the purchase register and in the invoice register. This system, considered particularly effective in the prevention of VAT fraud, is already applicable in Italian law in a number of specific hypotheses. In such cases, the taxable person shall pay the tax if he is a taxable person within the territory of the State. The invoice, issued by the originator without charge of tax with the annotation "turnover charge" and any indication of the reference standard, must be supplemented by the assignee with the indication of the rate and the related tax and must be entered in the invoice registers within the month of receipt, or even later, but in any case within fifteen days of receipt and with reference to the relevant month. The same document, for the purposes of deduction, is recorded in the purchase book. Due to its nature, the introduction of reverse charge is subject to prior authorisation by the European Commission. As a result, Article 1, paragraph 632, of the Stability Act for 2015 provided for a safeguard clause to offset the financial effects associated with the possible non-authorisation by the European Commission. Specifically, the rule provides for the adoption by 30 June 2015 of a measure by the Director of the Customs Agency and the monopolies to increase the excise duty rate on petrol and leaded petrol and the rate on diesel used as fuel. The European Commission, in its Communication to the European Council of 22 May 2015, in the framework of the procedure laid down in Article 395 of Directive 2006/112/EC, opposed the request to grant the derogation measure necessary for the application of reverse charge to large-scale supplies, since an indistinguishable and comprehensive application of reverse charge to a large number of products primarily intended for final consumption cannot be considered as a special measure provided for in Article 395 of the so-called VAT Directive. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u16	Senator Rossi, I'm sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u17	I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to lower your voice because it is hard to follow the work. Please, Senator Rossi. Rossi Gianluca (PD). Moreover, the European Commission considered that there is insufficient evidence that the measure requested would contribute to combating fraud and did not share the positive impact assessment carried out by the Italian authorities, since the measure in question is useful for the prevention of not all types of fraud that are the basis of tax evasion, but mainly of so-called carousel fraud, or of the forms of evasion carried out by surrendering or remaining several times the same goods or services between different Member States without any payment of VAT to the Erario. In order to avoid the activation of the safeguard clause, Decree-Law No. 78 of 19 June 2015 (so-called territorial authorities decree) deferred from 30 June to 30 September 2015 the deadline for the adoption of the measure of the director of the Agency of Customs and Monopolies. With the decree-law in question, the safeguard clause is exceeded for the current year with the identification of an alternative coverage to the increase of excise duties on fuels, i.e. by the use of the higher revenues attested by the Agency of revenue on the basis of requests for access to voluntary disclosure procedures and entered in the state budget. As regards the extension of voluntary disclosure, Law No 186 of 15 December 2014 introduced a series of provisions on the emergence and return of capital held abroad, as well as on the strengthening of the fight against tax evasion and self-laundering provisions. Specifically, the rules on voluntary disclosure provide for a procedure of voluntary collaboration of the taxpayer with the tax administration for the emergence and return to Italy of capital held abroad in relation to violations committed until 30 September 2014. I remember that, unlike the tax shield, with the accession to the voluntary disclosure you pay all taxes, financial annuities and interest due, and there is no anonymity. The OECD calls on member countries to implement voluntary disclosure measures, with the aim of implementing a global policy to safeguard the state's tax base and counter international evasion. In joining this plan of global geopolitics, the Italian Government has signed a series of bilateral agreements - among others, with Switzerland, the Principality of Monaco, the Isle of Man, Liechtenstein, the Baliate of Guernsey and the Vatican City State - to facilitate the exchange of tax information. Now the terms of the voluntary disclosure are widening. They are, in fact, the instruments, both perfectible, available to governments who want to recover the sums kept silent to the tax. At international level, the system of exchange of information and transparency in tax matters needs to be strengthened. The Global forum on transparency and exchange of information for tax purposes has 127 Member States, including States still considered as offshore centres, and some of them are adopting the so-called OECD (Standard for Automatic of Financial Account Information in Tax Matters), i.e. the automatic system for the exchange of tax information collected by financial institutions between participating jurisdictions on an annual basis. The hope is to be able to implement it from 2018. With these premises, it is clear that the assets and the proceeds still hidden from the tax will be more and more at the hands of the investigators. Those who have violated the so-called currency monitoring referred to in Article 4 of Legislative Decree No 167 of 1990, i.e. natural persons, non-commercial entities (including trusts, foundations and associations), non-commercial companies (simple companies), who are resident in Italy for tax purposes for at least one of the years ascertainable, may join the international procedure. Circular 10/E of the Revenue Agency clarified that the persons who have spent most of the tax period in the Italian territory (although they are formally resident abroad) can also join; the persons for whom the presumption of tax residence operates because they are transferred to States with preferential tax regimes. Illegal detention can be directed or through interposed persons (e.g. convenience companies, trusts, foundations and trustees); therefore, the interposed person can also access the procedure, using the conditions. Voluntary cooperation allows regularisation: of all investments and of all activities of a financial nature constituted or held abroad, even indirectly or by person, in violation of the tax obligations provided for by the Italian legislation in the matter of tax monitoring; of all the income that they served to constitute or acquire the aforementioned investments and activities - including income ascertainable on the basis of the presumption - as well as of the income that they derive from their disposal or use in any way; of all the declarative violations (also not related to foreign activities) in the matter of direct taxes (including declarations of the substitutes of tax) and of value added tax on the date of 30 September 2014. The goods subject to regularisation may be liquidity, securities, real estate, gold, jewelry, paintings, boats. In addition, the voluntary disclosure procedure takes place in four stages: the request for access by the taxpayer, the documentary feedback from the offices, the invitation to the facilitated definition, the Act of Accession. The advantages of the appeal are to reduce tax penalties and a kind of criminal safe conduct for fraudulent, unfaithful or omitted statements, as well as for money laundering, re-use or self-laundering offences, only if committed in relation to exclusive tax offences. The deadline for submitting the request for voluntary disclosure was 30 September 2015. The Decree-Law under consideration is intended to allow taxpayers to benefit from a longer period of time for the preparation of the application and for the retrieval of the documentation. The extension will benefit financial professionals and intermediaries, who will have more time to carry out tax calculations, find relevant documentation and complete all applications. The Erario will benefit from the additional receipts that will come from the extension, also in view of the reinvestment in Italy of assets previously held abroad. Taxpayers who have not joined the voluntary collaboration will be able to submit the application by 30 November 2015 and by 31 December 2015 this request can be integrated in increase and the information and documentation accompanying it can be presented. For those who have filed the application by the deadline of 30 September 2015, it is possible to supplement it, if they have not already done so, and to produce the relevant documents by 31 December 2015. As a result, the limitation periods for the determination and notification of the contested act are deferred from 30 December 2015 to 30 December 2016, limited to taxable persons, taxes, withholding taxes, contributions, penalties and interest related to the voluntary cooperation procedure. The Revenue Agency will therefore have until 31 December 2016 to notify: acts relating to 2004, in case of doubling of the terms, for violations related to the RW framework and failure to submit the tax return related to investments in countries black list; acts related to 2006, in case of doubling of the terms, for violations of unfaithful tax returns, related to investments in countries black list; acts related to 2009, for violations related to the RW framework and for failure to submit the tax returns related to investments in countries not black list and/or black list with agreement; acts related to 2010, for violations of unfaithful tax returns related to investments in countries not black list and/or black list with agreement. However, unification also means an obligation for the Agency to notify the years not due to expire on 31 December 2015 by the same deadline as 31 December 2016. Basically, the financial administration has one more year to carry out the annual checks that are due and taxpayers who have properly denounced their position will be able to have certainty about the closure of the disclosure procedure. The decree-law confirms, moreover, that the rules on voluntary collaboration have no impact on the application of the principals provided for by Legislative Decree No 231 of 2007, in the matter of combating money laundering and terrorist financing, with the exception of what is foreseen in the matter of administrative sanctions for violations of the prohibition of use, in any form, of accounts or savings booklets in anonymous form or with fictitious header, opened in foreign States. For the purposes of the voluntary cooperation procedure only, the offices of the Revenue Agency will continue to use the accession procedure even after 31 December 2015 and the taxpayer will be able to define, as a facilitated matter, the determination by adherence to the contents of the invitation to the contradictory. Finally, with regard to frontier workers, the Decree-Law provides, in view of the reduction of the obligations imposed on such taxpayers and for the sole purpose of the voluntary cooperation procedure, that they may require the offices of the Revenue Agency to apply the 5% rate on the amount of the benefits provided by the occupational pension for old age, survivors and invalidity in Switzerland, as provided for in the pensions paid in Italy by the invalidity, old-age and survivors' insurance Switzerland. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Senator Rossi, because you have done your speech in a not very simple condition, because of the buzz.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u19	We greet the students and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Arnaldo Fusinato" of Schio, in the province of Vicenza, who attend our works, to which we did not set a good example. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u20	I declare that the question referred for a preliminary ruling has been referred to QP1. He asked Senator Campanella to intervene to illustrate it. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is another occasion when the government will inappropriately take over legislative power by using the decree-law. The distinction of mutual respect for the existing constitutional prerogatives of Parliament and Government, in the form of cooperation, which should be real, requires respect for the form of parliamentary government, relations between Parliament and the Executive, as well as the process of formation of laws, clearly evoked also by Article 77 of the Constitution. Until it undergoes revision, the Constitution must also be respected by the Government, as well as by all the other constitutional powers and bodies of the State, the latter involved in various ways in the adoption or possible subsequent control of the chronic phenomenon of the decree of urgency. The measure does not present the requirement of urgency, as the rule providing for the application of the so-called reverse charge mechanism for VAT to large retailers, in order to combat tax fraud and, in particular, the so-called carousel fraud, just mentioned above, has been introduced by the 2015 Stability Act, covering a safeguard rule consisting of the increase in excise duties on fuels, which would have taken place if the European Commission had not given the authorisation. Last May, the European Commission rejected the rule, thus giving time to the Government to intervene with an ordinary bill. The Government, on the other hand, issued a first decree-law in July, in order to postpone to 30 September the introduction of the safeguard clause or the increase of excise duties on fuels and, subsequently, the decree that we are going to examine to change the coverage. The same Article 1 absolutely lacks the requirement of necessity, since the rule in question is however already provided with financial cover, pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, certainly with a measure, that of the increase of excise duties on fuels, which is objectively anti-popular and in countertrend with the efforts for the economic and productive revival of the Country. The absence of the requirement of necessity, however, in fact implies the nullity of the validity of the adoption of this act, as reiterated, inter alia, by the resolution of the Constitutional Court by judgment No 93 of 2011. The persistence of a factual situation involving the necessity and urgency of providing by the use of an exceptional instrument such as the decree-law is in fact a requirement for the adoption of such an act, the absence of which, as in this case, let us say, constitutes a vice of constitutional legitimacy of the same which is not remedied by the law of conversion. The safeguard clause relating to the increase in excise duties is of a structural nature from the moment it enters into force and for all the years to come, while the two-month shift from the possibility granted for the submission of applications to join for the benefit of the so-called tax shield is one-off, i.e. a validity limited to one year, in particular to 2016, after the applications are examined and escaped. At this point, there is the problem of a financial imbalance for the year 2015, as the revenues resulting from the so-called voluntary disclosure, in place of the increase in excise duties, will most likely not be available except in 2016, for the possibility to install payments in periods after 2015, this circumstance which, by not allowing to quantify exactly the revenue in cash terms, leads to an objective violation of the third paragraph of Article 81 of the Constitution, which provides that any law that amounts new or higher charges provides for the means to cope with it. With revenues already estimated at 20 September 2015, which, according to the technical report, amount to 1,406 million, the measure under consideration, according to the same Government, is abundantly covered. In order to cover the safeguard rule, therefore, there would have been no need to extend the forgiveness for the illegal export of capital. For what reasons did the Government wish to further benefit the evaders? Just to cash in, there are no other plausible reasons. In fact, in the law of stability 2016 just deposited in the Senate, as Act 2111, the Government calculates a revenue of two billion coming from the extension of two months of the fiscal shield, in order to be able to have a treasure that allows to reduce the tax pressure for electoral purposes only, so much so that at the same time introduces a new and umpteenth safeguard clause according to which, if the revenues coming from the fiscal shield do not have to be sufficient as cover, the Minister of the economy will establish by decree, from 1 May 2016, an increase of the excises on tobacco and alcoholic beverages. The game of the government is now discovered: it is always a continuous revival, without ever respecting the deadlines and causing the most unpopular measures to slip, such as the increase of excise duties on self-traction, which always hangs like a sword of Damocles on the head of all taxpayers citizens. To this we add that Article 3 on the principle of equality between citizens, and Article 53 of the Constitution, on the participation of citizens in public expenditure due to their ability to contribute and on the basis of criteria of progressiveness are also violated. The amount of the pardon is not anchored to an index of contribution capacity, thus leading to an unjustified unequal treatment between evaders and honest taxpayers. In fact, according to Article 53 of the Constitution, the contribution capacity is the prerequisite and limit of the state's power of taxation and, at the same time, of the taxpayer's duty to contribute to public expenditure, having to interpret this principle as a sector specification of the wider principle of equality referred to in Article 3 of the Constitution (judgment n. 258 of 2002 and Order n. 341 of 2000 of the Constitutional Court). It is therefore evident the unreasonable use that the Government has made and intends to make of its discretionary powers in tax matters, such as arbitrariness and the unjustified and no longer justifiable extent of the imposition on the evader, which corresponds only to 5% of the entire capital exported abroad illegally. For these reasons we have submitted the preliminary question of constitutionality QP1. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u22	Since no one intends to speak in the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1. Verification of SANTANGELO (M5S) quorum. We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) [[Senator Santangelo points out that he wants to intervene.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). You do not give us the floor to speak on the order of business. That is what the Rules of Procedure apply! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Santangelo, behave properly in this House. SANTANGELO (M5S). That is your Rules of Procedure! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Regulation allows senators and senators to perform their duties to the full. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the draft law n° 2070 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Senator De Petris and other senators. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u23	Madam President, I would like to ask Mr Zanetti for his attention. Maybe I have a problem with the microphone, because you can't hear anything here. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u24	I can't hear it either, but today there's an incredible level of buzz.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u25	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). I think there's a problem with the microphone. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's check Senator Crosio's microphone audio. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). I'll try to make myself heard. To the undersecretary Zanetti I wanted to ask if he is aware that with this measure we treat the former frontier workers and the former domiciled with the permission C of domicile in the Swiss Confederation in the same way as those of the Pizza connection. I should like to explain to you, Mr Undersecretary, that you tax 18% of the former frontier workers, who have left in a Swiss bank voluntarily, without making any mystery, a small bunch of small pieces gathered with the sweat of their forehead, like those of Pizza connection and do not tax them at 5% like someone else. The same thing you do with the former residents with the permission C of domicile in the Swiss Confederation, that after a life of sacrifices, dear Mr. Undersecretary, return to their country losing their domicile but also leaving in that case a small lump earned in dozens of years of work and labor in the yards of the Swiss Confederation: you tax them like those of the Pizza connection. Mr Undersecretary, since you do not know the subject - I am telling you quite frankly - not only us, but also our colleagues in the PD, we have then drawn up specific amendments, which intervene surgically on this subject. You are a serious person, do us a favor: read them carefully and consider them. We are not kidding, Mr. Undersecretary, perhaps I have told you with a little emphasis because this is particularly important to me - not just to me, but to many colleagues - but there is a real problem: we cannot make a similarity between honest workers who make a life of sacrifices and other people who have brought money from activities that are not well defined in Swiss banks, escaped from the Italian tax system and that must be taxed. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] It is another world, Mr Undersecretary, that we are talking about serious workers on the one hand and other people on the other; I am not talking about these people, but about frontier workers and former residents, please, Mr Undersecretary, and the Government, to make an effort. The opposition, but also the majority, tabled very serious and very well-heard amendments on the territories. We are talking at this moment, Mr Undersecretary, as far as frontier workers are concerned, of 62,500 people, Italian citizens who make their way across the border every morning and believe me: these, contrary to what someone thinks, really "do the deck" to survive. Having said that, Madam President, we really trust that Secretary Zanetti will be made aware of this situation. There are amendments and we are prepared to negotiate with the Government to find a solution for our workers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u26	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I agree with the words that Senator Crosio has just spoken in this House. Taking part in the work of the Senate's Finance Committee, I was convinced that the proposal that Senator Micheloni carried in that context was accepted by the Government and I am sure that the rapporteur, in his excellent report that introduced the work on the conversion of this decree-law, also wished for this solution. Let us hope that all of this - as well as others - can be reviewed during the work of this House. As everyone knows, the measure is very synthetic. The first part cancels the effects of the European Commission's decision to deny Italy the authorisation to extend the reverse charge mechanism for VAT to the large-scale food distribution sector, which would last, after a previous shift from 30 June to 30 September, involve the activation of the safeguard clause provided for by the 2015 Stability Act, consisting in the increase of excise duty on fuel for as much as EUR 728 million per year. Pretty much sine die. As the citizens know, excise duty is the usual well to draw from to make cash. Only this time it is not enough this decree-law, which eliminates only a small part of those increases already arranged for VAT and excise until 2021 by the current Government and the previous one, the Letta Government, for more than 174 billion euros. I would like it to be clear to all of us by re-reading the data of the stability law - which we will soon, through the work of the Budget Commission, know even better - that the excise duties on VAT and fuels, from now until 2021, amount to 174 billion euros and that, therefore, every mode, every decree-law and every amendment through which we can prevent that increase and prevent its progression from relying on the tax pressure (i.e. greater tax burden on citizens) should remember just that, namely that we must prevent that hypothesis. The Government, for now, has therefore been forced to intervene with a decree-law that cancels the increases for this review of 2015 and postpones everything to 2016. Honestly, we hope that the Government has righted its economic forecasts in order to cancel all safeguard clauses on future VAT and excise duties. Allow me here, Madam President, to recall a very dear principle to us Conservatives and Reformists and we would have liked to have included it, but we were not allowed to discuss it much during the work on constitutional reform, which saw the Senate at the centre of an important debate. The basic principles of the taxpayer's statute - which, instead, in this conversion of the decree-law, have the role of a protagonist - could have been better framed and embodied in the live text of our Constitution, at the time of one of the most important changes that have taken place in recent years, precisely on the basis of that tax ceiling, what we proposed could be established and established (in analogy to what we have done in the past years with Article 81 of the Constitution on expenditure and debt) also with respect to the fiscal pressure that is discharged on citizens and businesses in relation to GDP. This would simply cancel those safeguard clauses, which we call safeguard clauses, but which are actually harassment and which, on the other hand, we should cancel and cancel by increasing our GDP and productivity and, at the same time, reducing the tax burden. In this context, the second part of the measure finds the coverage for the elimination of excise duties through the inclusion in the balance sheet of the greater revenues deriving from the procedures of voluntary collaboration (here is the voluntary disclosure) provided for by law n. 186 of 2014, extending the deadline for the submission of the request for access to the procedure of voluntary collaboration - already placed on 30 September 2015 - to 30 November 2015, while the deadline for the eventual additions of the application and for the presentation of the documentation (which is copious, complicated and a little farraginosa) is set at 30 December 2015. We do not enter into the merit of the choice made at the moment by the Government to cancel an increase in excise duties, not already through a structural measure but through a one-off, because at the moment, also given the not sure rosy economic situation of the Italian families, that of assigning the resources of the voluntary disclosure to the block of the immediate increases of excise duties has seemed to us the lesser evil. Of course, we cannot fail to agree with the original philosophy of the rule, which allocated those resources to lowering the level of public debt. From this point of view, I would also remind you that the debts to companies, those of the Italian State, must certainly be met as soon as possible, as the Bank of Italy recently points out to us, even today, that it estimates, net of the amount sold in per soluto, in 61 billion the amount of the debt that our public administration still has with the supplying companies. In this light we could do more, and better. However, by analysing the figures made in the Finance Committee by the Government, which expose the situation of the applications submitted by 30 September last, we have raised a problem. In fact, we move from 32.040 Lombardy's questions (which is a considerable number) to only 29 of Basilicata, passing through Piedmont with 9.106, Emilia-Romagna with 4.382, and so on. There's some weirdness in this data. For example, reading the table shows that the regions with the lowest number of instances are in the order: Basilicata, Molise, Calabria, Sardinia, Valle D'Aosta. But beware, the region in question (i.e. the Valle d'Aosta) is very small compared to Abruzzo, which has 268; and so on. In the light of these figures, and I take advantage of the presence of Undersecretary Zanetti in this House, we have little interest in the controversy of these hours about the Revenue Agency. I don't know, undersecretary Zanetti, who's to resign. Sure, I think there's a problem. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] We are also not interested in the ventilated privatisation of the Revenue Agency, the one we read today in the newspapers, proposed by the former Minister Visco, because it seems to us that it takes us back to the times when the prince hired the tax collectors to collect the taxes and to them recognized an adjustment. It is also too lively and tragic, I say it above all to my colleagues who come from the regions of the Mezzogiorno, the memory of the Sicilian collectors, to regret that time. However, Visco poses in a provocative way, calling for the privatisation of the Revenue Agency, a problem of the organization of an institution which, of course, does not work so well. It is a problem that none of us can evade because, if we assume that the tax should be fair (and we even push ourselves to say friend) to the taxpayer and the citizen, this must correspond to an organisational model that accompanies the taxpayer in fulfilling his obligations at best. For us, therefore, it is a priority to ensure the functionality of the structure that carries out essential functions for the State, at least until the natural civic sense that the citizen would like respected first in his taxpayers' rights to respect his duties as a taxpayer is rooted. Until then, and we will work for this Madam President, the Revenue Agency is a bulwark to tax evasion. But it must review its organizational dynamics deeply, especially for us, those that undermine taxpayers' rights. In these dramatic years of financial crisis, which has easily fallen on the real economy and on the lives of businesses and our families, we have seen profound distortions on the part of the Revenue Agency, as well as on the part of the collection of Equitalia, and our criticism is well known and it is not appropriate to repeat it here. Instead, on this occasion, returning to voluntary disclosure, we Conservatives and Reformists believe that the measure goes in the right direction, that of the widest possible return and favored as much as possible, to return to invest in our country, as we hope the citizens who decide to return their capital from abroad to our country. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u28	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u29	Madam President, the only positive aspect of this measure is that, once approved, Parliament will be able to avoid the application of increases in fuel excise duties on Italian citizens, increases which have been provided for in the financial laws of the past years by governments supported by the Democratic Party, used as safeguard clauses if the revenue to finance the budgets of the State had not been adequate. Repeatedly we find ourselves in this situation where we have to find botched and improvised covers to try to limit these increases. As the 2015 Stability Act provided for this clause not to be adopted, and therefore the increase in fuel excise duty could be avoided through split payment and reverse charge, and as the European Commission stated that reverse charge cannot be applied, the Government decided to use greater use of voluntary disclosure as a cover. This is the absurd synthesis of this measure and the rather insane conduct of this Government in building the budgets of the State. It is also clear that the lengthening of the terms of voluntary disclosure, which is the cornerstone of this measure and which in the Government's forecasts should allow adequate coverage, is absolutely random, because we do not know, to date, actually what will come in cash terms by this year from the application of this rule. There are forecasts made by the Agency of revenue based essentially on a sample of part of the applications submitted so far. Through this analysis it is expected that revenue by the end of the year will be exactly enough to cover the safeguard clause. It is therefore clear that this is a forecast absolutely built on nothing and that it will for the time being delay the application of the increase in excise duty only until 1 January 2016, i.e. in a little more than two months, but that it will then have to find a new coverage. I believe that the finances carried out in recent years by the Democratic Party with safeguard clauses that provide for the increase of excise duties on petrol, the increase of VAT to 25%, the increase of IRAP and IRES, have been built on absolutely inadequate foundations and must be paid for sooner or later. There will come a time when a government, any government, for a serious financial situation, will come here and tell Parliament that it is unable to avoid these increases. We expected the Government and the Democratic Party, which introduced these stray mines into the state budgets, to finally neutralize these dangers for taxpayers' pockets, and instead we see continuous postponements, imaginative choices in an effort to avoid them with covers that, as I said, are absolutely inadequate. I ask the Undersecretary how he can think that, by extending the terms of the voluntary disclosure, which is nothing more than the regularization of capital held abroad, bringing it to 30 November and providing that the documentation can be submitted by 30 December, the fruit of the application of this rule can be made up of actual revenue into the State's cash register by the end of the year. It is also clear, given that the rule also provides for the payment of this type of payments, that actual revenue will take place not by 2015, but also during 2016, and therefore will create an imbalance and a completely inadequate coverage of this rule. Madam President, we do not share this attitude of the Government, which is absolutely irresponsible. It builds budgets and stability laws based on two pillars: on the one hand, the indiscriminate cut in the resources of local authorities, burdening citizens, who in most cases are then seen to increase taxes or are penalized by essential public services increasingly lacking, first of all health; on the other hand, debt, the increase in public debt, and the postponement of the application of the rules that provide for the increase of the tax burden (instead of going through the reduction of the public expenditure of the state apparatus, which you did not want to attack). Beyond the chatter, promises and optimism of the President of the Council, it is clear that the accounts of the State, thanks to these maneuvers, make water from all sides putting at risk the future of our country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u31	Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, the decree-law before us is, on the one hand, a due act and, on the other hand, an advance of the maneuvering of public finance, which will be better specified by the law of stability. It aims to reduce this year's net debt by EUR 728 million, as other colleagues have pointed out, with a drag effect on future years. The decree-law has become necessary in order to cope with the lack of Community authorization of the so-called reverse charge, that is to say the institution provided for by the past law of stability that allowed the public administration to pay the invoice of certain supplies net of VAT, cashing directly the amount of the latter. The aim was to simplify a bureaucratic passage and, at the same time, to contribute to the fight against evasion, which we were in favour of, since the failure to pay VAT (about 40% of its total) results in obvious forms of evasion. Despite this, the European Commission did not like it, partly because the revenue from this levy is one of the parameters on which the annual contribution of each State to the functioning of the European Union is calculated. The European Commission has therefore preferred to avoid any innovation in fear of creating some precedent in favour of others. Faced with the possibility of a posthumous ban by the Commission, the Government was forced to provide for a specific safeguard clause. Paragraph 632 of Law No 190 of 2014 (Stability Act) stated, in fact, that if the prescribed Community authorisation had not been granted, it would have to proceed with the increase of excise duty on fuels. Fortunately, this latter possibility has been avoided thanks to the increased revenue from voluntary disclosure, i.e. the return of capital provided for in the agreement with the Swiss authorities. Mr Secretary, we have tabled a number of amendments on this subject aimed at introducing a differentiation between those who have worked abroad as migrants, depositing the fruit of their sweat in the banks where they worked, and those who have exported capital. In fact, we believe that the former must be safeguarded and should be considered virtuous, because they have spared the fruit of their sweat. Since we give a positive opinion on this decree-law as a whole, as our colleague Eva Longo will announce tomorrow that she will make the explanation of vote, our vote will be either abstention or favorable depending on whether this difference will be taken into account or not. As I said, Senator Longo will be more precise tomorrow, but I was pressing today, in the general discussion, to ask her to consider introducing a differentiation with the amendments that we have tabled, including one signed by Senator Compagnone, who is here at my side, and to respect the work and savings of Italians enrolled in AIRE, showing that the Government is aware and has very clear who has honest and correct behaviors and who has tried to escape. We ask you to reflect, Mr. Undersecretary. Our opinion is positive; it is not that a point or an amendment makes us change our opinion, but we certainly believe that in order to get the vote in favour we also need to protect workers who have not found work in Italy (there are over 50,000), have gone abroad and should be considered Italian patriotic children like all others. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u32	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the second group of students and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Arnaldo Fusinato" of Schio, in the province of Vicenza, who are attending our work. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u33	Madam President, today we are talking about the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 153 of 30 September 2015 on urgent measures for public finance. One expects to find a good maneuver, in fact it is a measure that will facilitate tax evaders. In fact, an old adage recited that made the law, found the deception; but today that old adage you have to read it and apply it on the contrary: made the deception, found the law (and immediately voted). So we find ourselves in front of another nice little gift for the evaders. After the law n. 186 of 2014 that has allowed the holders of foreign capital hidden to heal their position without danger, here comes the piece of support for the late: an extension with the bows (it is done to say, of course) of the deadline for the submission of the request for access to the procedure of voluntary collaboration. In short, translating the philosophy of renziana, to die and to heal the escapes there is always time (and, for what interests him, he always gives a lot of time). They say among the lines of official documents that they have done so in order to prevent the increase of excise duties on fuels, a measure that would have taken as a direct consequence of the umpteenth ban imposed by Europe, this time on the reverse charge relating to the payment of VAT; however, it is possible to think, as well as based on the practical point of view, that the Government should have identified in time the covers precisely in view of a possible lack of authorisation by the European Commission and all this should have done not with the decree of urgency, practice by now abused and emptied completely of its value, but with a special clause. We do not need an expert aviator to understand that we do not jump from dizzy heights without parachute, even worse if we do so ignoring the accounts presented by the host, especially when the host in question is called Europe. Who knows who suggests to Renzi these found by new economist. The range of the latest gimmicks is for all tastes: it goes from raising the limit for cash payments up to 3,000 euros, to tax allowances for those who have unduly transferred and held assets abroad, passing through the standard salva-Berlusconi, that of the now famous article 19- bis of the reform on tax crimes, with the clause excluding the punishableness within the threshold of 3% of evasion on the impossibile. It is almost a matter of worrying what the next step will be in the fight against fraud: who will have to save from bankruptcy? By doing so, you will come to include in the Constitution a special protection for the black economy. It is okay to join cross-border cooperation programmes, but as long as they do not turn into reward measures or, worse, into a real campaign to encourage the commission of tax offences. This is certainly not about the innocent escapes sung by Baptists, but about maneuvers that make the game easy for the great fraudsters with a round of business starting from six zeros. Helping the defaulters through the granting of further extensions is nothing more and nothing less than an incitement to delinquere for the beneficiaries and a slap in the face for those who pay the taxes and you see it taken away every month from the paycheck taxes and contributions. May I still be allowed a few minutes to say that those who were old battle horses of Berlusconi (with the fiscal shield at the top of the standings) do nothing but find useful and last translation into the laws of the student Renzi. The end of history is represented by decrees-laws for evaders as if it were raining. But when do you make an urgent provision for honest ones? On the other hand, if the bill on conflict of interest or citizenship income continues to catch mold in the parliamentary drawers, there will be a reason. And the reason is all too clear: it takes cloth to carry out a government and you're proving you don't even have a piece of it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u34	Senator Moscardelli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u35	Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that in the narration of reality we can really go far and differ from what is the reality of the facts. Today, we are preparing to adopt a measure that is of common sense because it goes in the direction of not supporting, through an extension of the terms, a measure that is not bearing fruit, but of answering a question that comes from the world of professions. This legislative initiative has taken the lead and, through a constant flow of accessions, is promoting the success of an initiative aimed at bringing back and re-emerge capital held abroad. This, of course, does not call into question the revenue forecasts and, therefore, the aims for which the rule was intended. However, I believe that we need to reiterate and clarify once again that, from the point of view of the needs related to the measure under consideration, there was undoubtedly initially a complexity in terms of documentation and procedure, which in this case is not a bureaucratic element of weighing down, but rather the desire to have a comprehensive information in order to achieve the result that the legislative measure aims to achieve. On the other hand, it is also true that, in understanding this procedure and in closing international agreements (including those with Switzerland), they gave themselves a powerful impulse and a clear signal that the Government was determined and put in place an effective measure. Instead of trying to make the propaganda easy by saying that tax allowances are being made to avoid the increase in excise duties, we must remember that we have made an operation involving the emergence of capital without any tax forgiveness, because we pay the taxes due and all the sanctions in full. At the same time, the introduction of the crime of self-cycling, together with international and closed agreements on the exchange of information, makes life difficult for anyone who wants to continue to hold capital abroad as it has done to date. And this is so true that the success of the operation lies in the continuous flow of adhesions to participate in the window that has been opened and that closes (in fact, with the introduction of the crime of self-laundering, we face very harsh sanctions). As far as the fight against evasion is concerned, I would like to point out that over the last two years there has been an important, significant and substantial increase in the recovery of evasion, but that is not enough (as this would be a philosophy and a defence approach in recovering evasion since the increase, however important, is always relative). There are a number of measures (from the implementation of the tax delegation to the precompiled model) that have brought out more than 200,000 taxpayers who had forgotten to make the tax return. There is a whole series of agreements at international level, exchange of information and databases that allow today, together with the implementation of the tax delegation - therefore, modernisation, efficiency of our system - to catch significant results that go, on the one hand, towards a true contrast to tax evasion and, on the other, towards a modern, more efficient system. This, also through the collaboration and clarity of the rules, leads to greater membership by the taxpayer to declare and to be in line with the rules laid down for the taxpayer citizen, in an area of positive recovery of the relationship between tax and taxpayer. This is the reality of the situation and the measure under consideration is in the right direction to increase and ensure its effectiveness which it is demonstrating to date. That is why I am now announcing the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u36	The general debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u37	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-531.ana.u38	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 28 October, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.51 p.m.
