ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u4	Barani (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u8	The next item is the vote on the election of a member of the Council of President of the Court of Auditors, pursuant to Article 7 (1) (d) of Law No 186 of 27 April 1982 and Article 18 (3) of Law No 205 of 21 July 2000. The vote, by secret ballot, will take place by ballot. Each senator will receive a card on which he can indicate a name. The person who obtains the absolute majority of the votes of the members of the Senate is proclaimed elected. The senators, called in alphabetical order, will pass under the bench of the Presidency and put the card in the prepared urn. After the senators present in the Chamber have voted at the time of the call, the urn will remain open to enable the other senators to take part in the vote. I declare the vote open. I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the call. (Follows he calls her.) I warn my fellow Members that the ballot boxes will remain open until 7 p.m. to allow those who have not yet voted to do so. (The ballot boxes remain open.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u9	I communicate that the following draft law has been presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and by the Minister for Defence (Decree-Law Decree-Law No 99 of 8 July 2015 laying down urgent provisions for the participation of military personnel in the European Union military operation in the Central and South Mediterranean region called EUNAVFOR MED (1997).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u12	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I believe that this morning's experience should not be concluded, but rather that we should insist on trying to restore democracy to the country and the ability to speak through popular referendums. The Senators Centinario, Calderoli, Tosato, Arrigoni, the undersigned and others, pursuant to article 77, paragraph 1, of the Regulation, have requested the urgent procedure on the bill n. 545, that is a bill of constitutional rank of popular initiative, of which we will talk tomorrow, which has as its presupposition the necessity to modify the Constitution, making also admissible for our order repealing referendum on tax laws and ratification of international treaties.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u13	The Presidency takes note of this and, in accordance with Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, which you have just mentioned, the debate on this request will be included on the agenda for tomorrow's afternoon sitting. The vote will be taken by show of hands.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u14	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1568, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the own-initiative draft law of the Members of Parliament Fiorio and others; Russo and Faenzi; Edge Franco and Palazzotto; Zaccagnini and others; Schullian and others, and 205.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, a new concept of agriculture is being discussed in this House today, which actually finds its roots in the agricultural tradition of this country. The rural world has always been at the heart of social life, characterized by values of solidarity and mutual assistance, intertwined in a productive world already in itself particular, because determined not only by the market, but also by the seasonal trend and, pass me the term, by the whims of mother nature. I therefore agree with those who call social agriculture an innovative tradition, because, compared to the traditional elements of reception and social inclusion that already characterized agricultural activity, today we see a substantial difference in the approach. Before in agriculture the social aspect was a result of the productive world, while today it becomes objective, starting point and no longer one of the results. The novelty therefore consists in the fact that the agricultural activities that have a social objective are carried out explicitly and consciously in structures that use agricultural production processes and that are recognized by the community as useful paths to strengthen the autonomy and well-being of the socially weaker people. This approach is structured and aimed at responding to the demands of the market and of civil society, to re-read the multifunctional role of agriculture also through the orientation of rural development in an ethical dimension. Favouring access to places and contexts of social inclusion, well-being, rehabilitation and care offers Italian welfare an opportunity to make a substantial change from the point of view of the general system and the type of social and health services. We are talking about the possibility of offering unmedicalized contexts for socio-work care and integration. Although there has been a marked increase in opportunities for comparison and scientific publications on the subject, we have seen empirical approaches to date, driven by the sensitivity of the pioneers of this form of agriculture, without a real legislative definition of the term and how to start these activities. These activities are in fact particularly complex in the mere sense of the term, as social agriculture requires the active collaboration of more people with different needs, interests and professionalism. In particular, at this historic moment, in which we see an increase in the number of people below the poverty line and a decrease in public resources for the support of the weak sections of the population, there is a growing focus on agriculture, intended as a deposit of natural and cultural resources, to be exploited to carry out projects capable of ensuring a dignified existence. Firstly, those who are interested in social farming are those people who, faced with different forms of hardship, think that they will find a chance of vocational and social retraining in agriculture. Conceptually we are not talking about industrialized agriculture, but more about an agriculture that is based on the relationship between man and nature. It is the cultural heritage that characterizes the rural context associated with traditional, technical and scientific activities and knowledge, as well as innovative ones, because tradition and innovation, let us not forget, are certainly not incompatible. The device under discussion today specifies that the persons concerned are those with physical, mental or mental disabilities, former drug addicts, prisoners or ex-convicts and women who have suffered violence. In fact, outside the details of the measure, people who do not have special needs, health problems or particularly serious social difficulties may also be involved. These are subjects who come from professional areas far from agriculture, who find their motivations deep in the discomfort caused by the models of development of contemporary society and who want to experiment with new forms of life, production and consumption. Secondly, the people concerned are both new farmers, who already carry out diversified activities in the field of agritourism and school-related services, and traditional farmers who, driven by globalisation to abandon over-skilled production models that have proved not rewarding, are induced, in order to supplement income, to experiment with multifunctional agricultural models. Finally, I would like to stress that having introduced social cooperatives during the remodulation of this measure was a substantial step towards the quality of the measure itself. The multidisciplinary aspect is inherent in social agriculture, which involves, in its implementation, diversified knowledge in apparently distant areas, at least from a formative point of view. That is why the knowledge of the agricultural world cannot fail, as the knowledge of the world of social welfare cannot fail. Only through interaction, intense collaboration and a delicate modulation of the needs of these two worlds can well-designed and structured projects be created that can bring about excellent results on the agricultural and social level. I conclude by stressing the importance of the support that we must guarantee to these new forms of productive activity, especially in the context of our rich agro-food landscape that, if properly stimulated, will be a sure source of spring for the economies of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u17	Madam President, my speech will be shorter than announced. I shall confine myself, sharing most of the previous speeches, to making some notes to the Minister, who is absent from this Chamber again, but worthyly replaced by Deputy Minister Olivero. And, however, it is not a pleasure to take part in the Senate's proceedings when examining an agricultural measure, let us remember: it is also a bit of a duty, at least to the citizens we should represent. Mr Olivero, on 16 July 2014, you gave an interesting interview about the measure approved by the House of Deputies. However, I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen (since everyone here makes good speeches, but perhaps someone forgot to read the title of the bill), that the measure was transmitted by the President of the Chamber of Deputies to the Senate Presidency on 18 July 2014: a year ago. This measure has been dancing around for a year. First of all, I would like to say: if the government cared so much, as the deputy minister himself said by issuing statements to the press, you could use a decree-law, since you use it often. And, by the way, if the government cared so much, it could be voted in a few weeks. Unfortunately, I fear that this is one of the many pro-forma measures which, however, in the reality of the facts does not find real support within the Government. He probably has real support in the person of the Deputy Minister, who has worked so hard for this measure, even to the point of incurring - may I say, Deputy Minister Olivero - in some gaffe. For example, it has been stated that the text on social agriculture, which, if it complies with the timetable laid down by Olivero himself, will also be able to beat over time the rule of reform of the third sector desired by the President of the Council Matteo Renzi. "I'm happy with the timing," he added, Mr. Deputy Minister. Now I recommend, when he uses the word "serene" be a little more cautious, because now, with President Renzi, there is very little of serenity and he had already understood Letta in his time. Returning to the content of the measure, I repeat that these are useful measures and certainly for a long time expected, because it is true that the regions, in the period that has elapsed, have already worked and given to be done by law. There are regions that have gone far beyond their role, going to fill a gap in national legislation and charting a way. The time elapsed between the approval of the Chamber of Deputies and the passage into the Senate is such that it is assumed that everything has also been evaluated in terms of correctives, as said by the Deputy Minister himself always in July 2014. We'll see. This is a measure that, even more than others, will demonstrate its social usefulness in implementation. If it is a simple manifesto of intent to satisfy in a somewhat superficial way an expectation of the social sector, it will disappoint us very much. If, however, there is support, of course, from the funding of the initiatives, we will be delighted. Social agriculture is a candidate to be one of the tools for promoting rural welfare: these are his words and we share them. However, there must also be economic support and it is not enough to applaud the National Social Agriculture Forum. I understand it was July last year and everyone expected approval. You yourself, in September, said that the law would be brought home by autumn. We arrived a year later. Mr Vice-Minister, we must be much more determined on these aspects, including in the Council of Ministers, and not simply stand in line with other measures, making it seem that socialism is a primary understanding of the Government. You concluded your press release by saying that not everything must be contained in the law, because it risks weighing down the texts and lengthening the time. As for the appessation of the texts, we have certainly not seen this, because it is a very poor measure. On the lengthening of the times - alas - although you did not insert anything, you took an extra year of advantage. Your advantage, the country's disadvantage. I will stop here, noting that it would be a shame if, precisely because of your negligence in the timing, the premises of a measure were ruined, which we want to see if it will be further improved in the amending phase. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u18	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u19	Madam President, social agriculture means the use of the farm to meet social needs, such as the recovery and reintegration of disadvantaged people, educational activities for schools, provision of services for rural communities, etc. Currently there is no organic discipline in the field of social agriculture in Italy, despite the fact that agri-social activities are already carried out by many farms and by the third sector (in fact, the experiences of educational farms are very widespread). In Europe, however, it is an emerging theme, so much so that rural development programming is one of the key actions aimed at improving the quality of life. In the 2014-2020 programming, social agriculture is one of the priorities of the Partnership Agreement, in order to exploit the multifunctionality of farms to experiment models of welfare that can enhance the social capital of rural territories. The overall assessment of this measure is unsatisfactory for us, in view of the numerous critical issues that, according to the 5 Star Movement, presents. Why? We see him together. The audience of users of social farming interventions, ranging from workers who have not been regularly paid for more than six months to those who have been convicted and admitted to external work, from physically or psychologically disabled to members of national minorities, is growing out of proportion. This forecast diminishes the social function of agriculture insofar as social function means the use of the particular link that is determined between the productive and the relational dimension with plants and animals (and more generally with nature) as it can give value and dignity to people in conditions of dependence or bearers of singular peculiarities. Include people with reduced contractuality among social farming users exposes the risk of transforming social farming activities into employment opportunities for those who are not really disadvantaged. Thus, indirectly, social agriculture is given a more charitable than social function in its own sense. In addition, there is also a high risk of improper use of the possibilities for easier recruitment of labour required by law, leaving aside all purely social aims. So, by throwing the money, the target on the beneficiaries of social agriculture has not been achieved at all. Again. There is provision for social farming workers to be farmers and social cooperatives whose agricultural turnover is prevalent. In the proposal of the 5 Star Movement only agricultural entrepreneurs and not also social cooperatives are considered agro-social operators, because the main activity is - and must, in our opinion, remain - the agricultural one. The fact that they are recognized as legitimate persons to carry out agro-social activities only agricultural entrepreneurs do not prejudice the collaboration (which, indeed, is indispensable) with other social workers and however excludes that they can directly exercise a plurality of experiences in the name of principles and interests that have nothing to do with agriculture. Social functionality is possible, in fact, only thanks to the peculiarities of agriculture itself. To consider social farming operators also social cooperatives - which already benefit from many facilities and occupy most of the available spaces in the third sector - means to deprive operators in the primary sector of valuable opportunities for diversification of their activities. In short: objective social agriculture workers did not reach! And then again. Social farmers are given the opportunity to set up producer organisations under existing Community legislation. This forecast, which also seems to give social cooperatives and social farmers the possibility of setting up producer organisations, gives us more than one concern. Finally, an observatory on social agriculture is set up at the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy in order to prepare guidelines, develop information and monitor activities, propose initiatives aimed at integrating social agriculture into other public policies, in particular cohesion policies, and promote communication and territorial animation actions. Aside from precision, it remains on the plate the sore point of the matter. That is to say that we are faced with a text which, as it has arrived, lends itself to an application which is certainly different from the intentions of strictly understood social agriculture and which - not even to say it - has not taken account of our amendments, all aimed at bringing social agriculture closer to agriculture - the real one - and to good agricultural practices. And now we come to us. What did we ask? We have asked that social farmers be given access to land by means of the land lease instrument. It would have been a breath of fresh air for new entrepreneurs, as well as an opportunity for economic recovery; but it seems that nobody (as well as us) cares about the situation of strangulation, precariousness and crisis that the primary sector has been experiencing for years. We have also called for social farming activities to include the use of natural fertilizers (allowed by the regulation of organic farming; a fundamental step to make a social protection project sustainable), together with a fundamental redefinition of these activities, with a consequent reasoned narrowing of the users, which must be clear, specific and targeted. The aim is to enhance its effectiveness, otherwise the same bill has no sense of existence. Let us come to the amendments. All those submitted by the M5S were rejected in the Agriculture Commission. We know that common sense does not belong to these places, that it is not appropriate for those who care about their own interests and those of their friends, and certainly not for the interests of the community, the agricultural sector and the most disadvantaged groups. Here - it is clear - we have once again confirmed this because, in fact, social agriculture has also been given a label of profit. As usual, the Demencial Party has sewn a framework of provisions that seem to do everything, less than social agriculture. This is also very clear, because doing social farming without farmers, in addition to allocating the benefits to outsiders, is equivalent to doing medicine without doctors, improperly using the regulatory instrument in favour of some, and the usual known. The 5 Star Movement aims at a law that can take into account the richness of the agricultural-social model, with clear guidelines and support measures useful for the development of social agriculture, important also for the purposes of the new RDPs. Instead, what do we do? It increases the amount of precepts written badly and above all not respected that will certainly help to deepen, sooner or later, the best Italian excellences. Dear citizens, open your eyes, do not let yourselves be dulled because there is nothing good about this measure, not even the shadow of something that can be useful to farmers and social agriculture. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scoma. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u21	Madam President, Deputy Minister, Senators, the draft law that we are about to vote promotes social agriculture in order to facilitate adequate and uniform access to the essential benefits to be guaranteed to people, families and local communities throughout the national territory, in particular in rural or disadvantaged areas, through the development of social, social, health, educational and socio-working integration interventions and services that reflect the multifunctionality of agricultural enterprises. Social agriculture means activities carried out by agricultural entrepreneurs, in a single or associated form, and by social cooperatives, aimed at achieving: the socio-working integration of workers with disabilities, disadvantaged workers and minors of working age in rehabilitation and social support projects; social services for local communities, including agri- kindergartens and reception services for people in physical and mental difficulties; services and services that support and support medical, psychological and rehabilitation therapies, including through the aid of animals and plant cultivation; projects aimed at environmental and food education, the preservation of biodiversity and the dissemination of knowledge of the territory through the organization of social and educational farms. The activities listed above can also be carried out by social cooperatives if the turnover resulting from agricultural activities is prevalent. If the turnover is more than 30% of the total, these social cooperatives are considered as workers in social agriculture in proportion to the same agricultural turnover. Social farming activities can be carried out in association with cooperatives, social enterprises, social promotion associations, public entities, cooperation bodies, voluntary organisations, social promotion associations and bodies, foundations, patronage bodies and other private entities. The legislation provides that social farming activities are carried out in collaboration with social and health services, obviously combining with the intervention of the Regions, which have already independently provided for their own regulations. Some regions, such as Veneto, Liguria, Tuscany, Marche, Abruzzo and Campania, have already begun to operate, although in an experimental way, with fairly satisfactory results, and all this goes to intersect with the regulation of the third sector and the law n. 381 of 1991, which every year transfers to the Regions numerous financing. The public authorities responsible for the territory, within the framework of the planning of their functions in relation to agricultural and social activities, promote, without new or increased burdens for public finance, integrated policies between enterprises, agricultural producers and local institutions in order to develop social agriculture. The measure comes to the Chamber perhaps a little late (it took almost twelve months) and in the meantime, as I said before, some regions have already begun to act with the same principles. It is also expected that the regions will adapt their own provisions on the planning of the local network of services and services, in order to allow the recognition of social agriculture operators in the agencies in charge. The monitoring and evaluation of services and services shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the body responsible for recognition. The approved undertakings shall be entered in an official list established at regional level. On the other hand, the part relating to the replacement power of the State vis-à-vis the Regions in the event of non-compliance with the recognition of operators has been deleted. Social farming operators may set up producer organisations (OPs) for social farming products. The buildings or portions of rural buildings already existing in the fund, intended by farmers for the exercise of social farming activities, maintain the recognition of rurality. The regions can promote the use of the existing real estate in accordance with the typological, architectural and landscape-environmental characteristics of the places. As regards support measures, public institutions managing school and hospital canteens have the right to include as priority criteria for the award of supply invitations, the origin of agri-food products from social agricultural operators, in compliance with the legislation on rationalization and containment of expenditure on goods and services. The municipalities will have to define the appropriate arrangements for the presence and exploitation of products from social agriculture in public areas. In the context of the operations of alienation and leasing of agricultural property land and of those belonging to territorial and non-territorial public authorities, priority criteria are laid down to facilitate the establishment and development of social farming activities, including by using property and land confiscated under the Code of Anti-Mafia Laws and Prevention Measures. Local and regional authorities may also grant real estate confiscated from organised crime free of charge to workers in social agriculture. The regions, within the framework of rural development plans, can promote the implementation of programmes aimed at the development of the multifunctionality of agricultural enterprises, with particular regard to the practices of integrated territorial planning and the development of social agriculture. To this end, the Regions themselves promote partnerships between stakeholders in the social agriculture sector. Regions and autonomous provinces must take appropriate measures to support social farming activities. Forza Italia again strongly complains about the government's lack of attention to a sector that is currently highly in crisis. We believe that the measure could certainly have been better and that it should be supported by adequate funding in the next state budget. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u22	She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u23	Madam President, the draft law on social agriculture promotes the full occupational and social integration of people with disabilities and disadvantaged people. Does that seem small to you? Who denigrated her a moment ago evidently said a big nonsense. The Senate Act 1568 and 205-A, approved by the Senate Agriculture Commission with slight changes compared to the text arrived by the House, fully maintains its system, but opens to a wider and wider application of social activities and services throughout the national territory than the previous text of the Chamber. It contains provisions to support activities which, in recent years, have played an increasingly important role, thanks to agricultural enterprises which, in addition to the production of agri-food products and traditional services, intervene with actions to support the production and promotion of health, rehabilitation and care, education, training, organization of services useful for the daily life of specific types of users, aggregation and social cohesion for those who are most vulnerable, creation of employment opportunities. The potential of the norm is really a capital for both welfare and productive purposes. Let us think of the re-integration for therapeutic purposes of disadvantaged people, who are able to produce goods. This is a measure aimed at overcoming mere welfareism in the approach to social hardship, and not just disability. Contact with the agricultural environment is the best way to integrate or reintegrate disabled people, young people and no longer young people in difficulty. The synergic relationship with normality, in a healthy and stimulating environment, is really the best answer a law can give. Social agriculture, an activity carried out by agricultural entrepreneurs and social cooperatives, aimed precisely at achieving the socio-work integration of disabled and disadvantaged workers, included in rehabilitation and social support projects, intended to provide social and service benefits and activities for local communities, support services for medical, psychological and rehabilitation therapies, projects for environmental and food education, also uses the organization of social farms. The requirements and arrangements for carrying out these activities are defined by decree of the Minister of Agricultural Policy. Social cooperatives may engage in social farming activities provided that the turnover resulting from the pursuit of agricultural activity is prevailing. If they are between 30% and 50% of the total, they are considered to be active in social agriculture, in proportion to the extent of agricultural turnover. Contacts with stakeholders and hearings in the Commission with all associations in the agricultural world have been valuable opportunities to take note of the opportunities that the bill represented and to implement and improve it. As regards support for social agriculture, I would point out that some aspects are taken up by the provision on good school (and not only) when it defines priority criteria for the inclusion of products from social agriculture in school canteens. This also applies to the public institutions which manage - as the rapporteur pointed out yesterday - the hospital canteens, which can foresee, in the tenders concerning supply services, priority criteria for the inclusion of agri-food products coming from the operators of social agriculture. In favour of this agriculture, the municipalities define ways of exploiting products in public areas for trade. It is good that priority criteria are laid down for the establishment and development of social farming activities in the context of the procedures for the disposal and leasing of agricultural property, including using land confiscated from the mafia, and that local authorities may grant real estate confiscated from organized crime free of charge to operators of social agriculture. Social agriculture means solidarity policy, social promotion, an investment that represents a further step towards a true integration and productive valorization of all fragile people, returned to active protagonism, valued through work. The aim is not only to invest and revive the sector, but to restore people of great dignity. This is why promoting the development of social agriculture in our country is a real challenge, not only economic, but above all moral. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u24	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u25	Madam President, I must agree that in all the speeches - apart from a few remarks on the timing and other issues - there has been appreciation for the text of the draft law under consideration. Many issues have been included in the debate - I am thinking of broadband, the question of the Forestry Corps, educational farms and other issues - but they have nothing to do with this measure. In particular, we are talking about a measure that has more to do with the value of a framework law, since the competences are then of the Regions. I would point out that in our country some regions have already legislated on social agriculture and that to date almost 250 experiences have already been made throughout Italy. With the approval of this framework law we believe to give an address and offer a reference point to all the Regions, providing a coverage for those Regions that have already legislated and allowing those that have not yet done so in accordance with the norm. We believe that the new CAP and the approval of RDPs are a good opportunity today and that these economic instruments can be useful for finding resources. I believe that a consensus has been expressed in the various speeches. In particular, I was very impressed by the interpretation of the law given by Senator Padua - whom I thank - that I am convinced is the right one. Basically, if there is, for example, the possibility of eating in schools, a product that comes out of social farms, we can say that this product will have a different flavor. Allow me to thank Mr Olivero, Mrs Sallusti, the collaborators and the whole Commission, who have worked very well and which has made a positive contribution to the Commission's rapid adoption of this draft law, especially if we take into account the fact that - as my colleagues are well aware - the times have unfortunately not only depended on the Committee on Agriculture, but also on the work of this House and on a thousand other factors. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u26	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u27	Madam President, I would like to thank the rapporteur and colleagues for their comments. I will try to respond very briefly to some of the comments that have been made and explain why we believe that this law has great value and marks an important passage both in social and economic terms. First of all, I would like to stress that, as has been said, the time has actually been longer than expected, especially by those with little governmental experience. Senator Candiani will have to give me this: unfortunately, sometimes, taken from the enthusiasm, little account is taken of the harsh rules of parliamentary activities. It is also true, however, that this measure has been in Parliament' s Chambers for seven years and that the entire parliamentary term has not been sufficient for its approval. I am therefore very pleased that the process of this bill can be concluded here. I still want to point out that the objective we had set ourselves, that of approval before the full implementation of the calls for RDPs - ahinoi, also because of the difficulties of the RDPs - will still be respected and this for the benefit of the whole sector. Finally, I would like to stress that, even if this measure is not decisive, it is extremely important for the whole world of social agriculture: I say this in particular to Senator Donno, who pointed out that it was inadequate. In fact - I can say this very shortly - this measure is important and is required above all by a large part of those already working in social agriculture, which is made up of agricultural and social entrepreneurs together, who need recognition and need first of all to feel that their activity is fully supported and recognized. In this provision there is all this. I merely illustrate three key elements. The first, ladies and gentlemen, is that this law does not establish, it does not configure, it does not create a new case. This law recognizes what courageous women and men, responsible entrepreneurs, have built in these decades. This law is at last born in the logic and in the spirit of the principle of subsidiarity that our Constitutional Charter lays down today and this, ladies and gentlemen - I say this in particular to those who have just sat in this House - is not a small thing, it is not an irrelevant achievement. You will allow me to say, because I come from the world of the third sector and I have also had top responsibilities in the network of that sector, that in the past years we have often followed a policy that we imagined as a builder of companies and services, while today we merely recognize and try to support. It's no small thing in perspective. Civil society must be allowed to operate and must not be incorporated into a logic, instead, to put the state at the centre of everything. Secondly, this is not a social and/or welfare law, but a law that constitutes the social responsibility of an economic sector. [[Applause from Senator Di Biagio]] It is not only a question of helping disadvantaged people into employment, of offering services to maintain social cohesion in our rural areas, but also of ensuring that the agricultural sector can take responsibility for the community and see its role recognised. This is an important step in that social market economy which alone can bring us out of the crisis in which an irresponsible model of capitalism has brought us down. In this regard too, I believe that the cultural transition is important and must be stressed here, in the face of this measure. Finally, this law is addressed to the agricultural world - I would like to reassure Senator Donno in this regard - to entrepreneurs and companies in a sector that wants to grow and grow well. Employment data, which speak of 57,000 more workers in the year 2014 and 45,000 more workers in the primary sector in the first quarter of 2015, tell us that agriculture marks the country's recovery, but precisely for this reason we want to help those who will seize this moment to increase social cohesion and create employment for those people - disabled, long-term unemployed, people with different disadvantages - who risk not seeing the signs of restart. I say this to those in this House who are most concerned about these issues, and in particular about full employment for those most in difficulty. We need those employment figures that we have mentioned to be achieved in particular by employing the people most in difficulty and also by providing employment in those rural areas in which there is more difficulty in maintaining the population, as we know. Of course, we need to ensure that there is no abuse, I take this instance from different groups, because it is right that the greatest attention should be paid, but creating inclusive instruments such as this rule is extremely important at this time. Social agriculture, therefore, is not just a project of beautiful souls, people and businesses who believe in social ransom, to which of course all our tribute goes at this time when we recognize the work done in the past decades. Of course this is it, but it's not just that. However, it is a first sign of a new model of development which, even through these small but important standards, can begin. Agriculture once again takes first the signals of a necessary change and this law, even if it took a little longer, comes in a timely way and it is a framework law that the regions must and can improve further with their regional laws. It captures the sign and can produce the desired results. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u28	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u29	Before proceeding with the examination of the articles, I address the Assembly's greetings to the students of the "Luiss Creative Summer School" who are visiting the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u30	We shall now proceed to the agendas, which are set out in detail, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to make their views known.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u31	On the G1 agenda, the opinion is in favour if Mr Candiani agrees to expunge from the premises the part following the word "dignified" and, at the last line of the device, to remove the adjective "these" before the word "projects". With these amendments, the opinion was in favour. The opinion was opposed to the G2 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u32	I give my assent to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u33	I would ask Senator Candiani if he accepts the proposed reformulation of the G1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u34	Yes, Madam President, and I ask for the vote. SANTANGELO (M5S). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the voting of agendas to be carried out simultaneously by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u35	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1 (text 2), presented by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2, tabled by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u36	Madam President, Amendment 2102 affects paragraph 1 of Article 2, i.e. the definition of social farming, providing for the essential requirement that the activities carried out by the farmer be carried out within holdings using exclusively organic farming methods. Moreover, the social activity of an agricultural holding would not be compatible with a production system using pesticides or intensive farming. Take, for example, the activity referred to in point (d) of the article under consideration, according to which social agriculture means projects aimed at environmental and food education, the protection of biodiversity, as well as the dissemination of knowledge of the territory through the organisation of social and educational farms recognised at regional level. The aim of the educational farms is to illustrate to the youngest the production processes, the methods of food production, the correlation between agricultural production and the protection of natural resources and the territory, to enhance the typical products, to highlight the work of the farmer and the initiatives he takes to produce in respect of the environment. Well, ladies and gentlemen, who of you can imagine the development of an educational farm on a farm where there is an intensive farm which, as everyone knows today, is a source of suffering for animals and damage to the environment? On the animal welfare front intensive farms are comparable for animals at concentration camps: even when the laws are respected, the available spaces are just enough for the animal to turn and sometimes not even for that. On the environment, however, industrial farms are now a proven threat to the depletion and pollution of aquifers, greenhouse gas emissions and fossil fuel waste. The waste from slaughterhouses also pollutes (I remember that the butchers were among the unhealthy farms), so it is clear that this specification needs to be included in the standard, accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u37	Madam President, with amendment 2,500, we wanted to add a period to point (d) of paragraph 1 of Article 2 in order to describe above all an issue which had already been envisaged by the House in some way. I read about it because we consider it important and qualifying for the whole bill. In paragraph 1 (d), the following words must be added in the final sentence: • as initiatives for the reception and stay of preschool children and persons in social, physical and psychological difficulties. This is to give the regions the opportunity, in expressing their laws, to think, for example, of kindergartens and so on. We believe that this is an important point.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u38	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u39	Madam President, I am against all the amendments to Article 2 of the draft law, with the exception of amendment 2,500 of course. The opinion was also opposed on all agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u40	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u43	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u44	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Let us turn to Amendment 2,100 (correct text), on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. WOMAN (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,100 (correct text).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u47	WOMAN (M5S). Madam President, I would like to point out that the financial coverage of amendment 2,100 (correct text) is ensured through a reduction in the percentage of deductibility of interest payable for banks and insurance; therefore, if necessary, there would be cover. I would therefore ask you to consider this. The reduction of a percentage point of the deductible interest rate for banks, insurance companies and companies operating in the financial sector, based on the data of the technical report annexed to Decree-Law No 112 of 2008, results in an increase in IRES revenue of 332 million euros per year from 2015. It therefore seems absurd to me that this amendment should be dismissed because financial cover is not recognised, because if you want to take these into account, these are present and have been clarified. With the request to take into account the financial cover reported, I therefore repeat the request for the vote on this amendment or to return it to the Budget Committee, in order to review - if it has not already been done exactly - the financial cover in this respect.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u48	The support for your request for the vote on this amendment, even in the presence of an opinion contrary to the opinion of the Budget Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, has already been established. Moreover, the Budget Committee has already spoken in its own place, where colleagues in its Group have had the opportunity to intervene, and now there is no possibility to refer the amendment back to the Commission. My fellow Senators in this House can assess your views and possibly vote on the amendment, even in contrast to the opinion of the Budgetary Commission. WOMAN (M5S). I therefore ask you, at the time of the vote, to consider this cover. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Exactly, you argued this coverage contrary to the opinion of the Budget Commission. Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,100 (correct text), tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the 5th Commission's opinion under Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 2,101 is impervious. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.102, tabled by Senator Fucksia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.103, tabled by Senator Ruvolo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.5, tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,500, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.104, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u51	WOMAN (M5S). With this amendment we call for the deletion of paragraph 3 of Article 2, because qualifying as activities related to agricultural social services for local communities, services and therapeutic services also with the help of animals and plants and initiatives of environmental and food education can be misleading, as they have little inerency with the primary sector. These are the reasons why we have tabled this amendment, precisely because it must not be a form of assistance, but rather an effective relaunch of the sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u52	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.8, tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.9, tabled by Senator Donno and other senators, identical to amendment 2.105, tabled by Senator Ruvolo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.10, tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.11, tabled by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.12, tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of agenda G2.1, tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.2, tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.3 tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.4 tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.5, tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 2 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u53	Madam President, Amendment 3,100 aims to facilitate the recognition of operators engaged in social farming, as defined in the draft law, when it is carried out in mountainous or economically disadvantaged areas or included in the Natura 2000 network, which aims to ensure the long-term maintenance of natural habitats and species of flora and fauna threatened or rare at Community level. The areas that make up the Natura 2000 network are not strictly protected reserves where human activities are excluded, on the contrary. The aim is to ensure the protection of nature, taking into account economic, social and cultural needs, as well as regional and local peculiarities. Therefore, private entities can be projected into Natura 2000 sites provided that they ensure sustainable management both from an ecological and economic point of view and, as regards agricultural areas with high natural value, if they are those in which agriculture represents the use of the main soil (normally the prevailing one) and agriculture maintains or is associated with the presence of a large number of species and habitats or particular species of Community, national or local interest. These areas are sensitive for the conservation of biodiversity and are characterized by a high presence of semi-natural vegetation (such as permanent meadows, pastures or natural elements such as hedges, trees and groves), low intensive agriculture, diversity of soil cover. For their characteristics, therefore, it is very appropriate for this bill to express a preferential criterion regarding the location of companies in these areas. I therefore urge the adoption of amendments of this kind, and just now - I have to say the truth - I was quite shocked that the amendment to Article 2 was not voted on, so that the use of pesticides and intensive farming is also included in social agriculture. This makes me sceptical about the whole measure and I wonder what the ultimate aim is: do we tend to promote an initiative that protects the economy, the landscape, the typicality, the quality or is it yet another business disguised?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u54	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u55	I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u56	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u57	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.1 tabled by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Fucksia, on Amendment 3,100 there is a conditional opinion of the Budget Commission: the clearance is conditional on the inclusion of a clause of financial invariance. Do you accept the inclusion of the clause? FUCKSIA (M5S). Yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Fucksia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u60	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I withdraw Amendment 3.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u61	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 4, on which an amendment and an agenda have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u62	Madam President, more than just to explain, I would like to speak in order to make an explanation of vote. I would like to ask the Deputy Minister if he would consider the G4.1 agenda, as he refers a lot to the statements he made in his reply at the end of the general debate. I would like to remind you that, on this agenda, we call on the Government to commit itself to ensuring, through the adoption of appropriate measures and to ensure, within the framework of its powers, that the possibility for social farming operators to set up producer organisations does not compromise the social purpose of the activities carried out by them. That is the request that we make on this agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u63	Senator Donno, I would ask you to clarify: do you intend to maintain Amendment 4.1? WOMAN (M5S). Yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendment and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u64	I am against Amendment 4.1. As regards the G4.1 agenda, the opinion is in favour, provided that it is reworded in the sense of committing the Government to assess whether it is appropriate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u65	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u66	Senator Donno, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda? WOMAN (M5S). Yes, I accept it, and I would ask that votes be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G4.1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having not been tabled on Article 4 other amendments than the deleterious 4.1 tabled by Senator Donno and other senators, I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the retention of the same article. (The vote was followed). It's approved. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u69	WOMAN (M5S). Madam President, I would like to correct my vote: by mistake it was in favour, but of course I am against maintaining Article 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u70	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u71	Madam President, since you have snubbed my proposal on farmers who want to do activities of excellence, I hope that at least you will not undo the proposal on the construction sector, when it is integrated in this context, because it is a sector in crisis. With amendment 5,100 I propose to make binding for the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces the promotion of the recovery of the existing building assets for the use of agricultural entrepreneurs, providing that this also happens through measures of tax clearance against those who carry out social farming activities. Let's remember that lately we have put the IMU on agricultural land and now we all race to remove it. The restructuring and recovery of rural infrastructure can prove to be formidable tools for the development and enhancement of the rural landscape (let's think of Tuscany, Apulia, Marche, Umbria and other regions), especially as an alternative to the construction of new artifacts, with the consequent consumption of soil. The levels of land consumed in Italy in recent years, my lords, are alarming: according to ISPRA, we consume and no longer recover 8 square meters per second, 70 hectares per day. Regenerate and enhance the existing, instead of building again, is a line of common sense, innovative, that makes us return the beautiful country, that we have snubbed so much and we are snubbing and massacred. This is the right direction, the famous right direction. With regard to this amendment, I hope that at least this House will be able to see the positive prospects that such a direction can bring: it means land recovery, aid for building in crisis, promotion of tourism; it means preserving a country with country dignity. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u72	Madam President, the aim of amendment 5.0.100 is to remedy a lack of text, allowing the creation of a special fund for the testing and promotion of social agriculture. Of course - and I am addressing the rapporteur - we are also prepared to withdraw the amendment in order to turn it into an agenda that commits the Government to foresee the possibility of setting up the fund, perhaps in the next Stability Act. It is, in fact, absolutely essential that there are resources, even a few, in order to be able to set up an experiment in the promotion of social agriculture. Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to make a mistake: during the examination of Article 2, with our cards, we voted against Amendment 2,104 by our Group when we wanted to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u73	I take note of that. The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u74	I call on the presenters to turn amendment 5,100 into an agenda that calls on the Government to consider whether it is appropriate. I am against Amendment 5.1, and on Amendment 5.0.100, as Mrs De Petris has asked, I call for a change to an agenda which requires an assessment by the Government, into the future stability law and compatible with budgetary balances.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u75	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u76	I call for the text of any agendas to be drawn up so that they can be properly evaluated. Senator Fucksia, do you accept the change of amendment 5,100 to the agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u77	Madam President, I find that in this case the cover could be found, even if only considering all the economic return that would come from the encouragement of tourism and from the movement of the economy: an economic solution could be found to buffer this tax relief, which causes, through the incentive of the whole economic mechanism and of the supply chains, a greater revenue, therefore a return. The temptation is therefore to insist that it be put to the vote, because it is an amendment that is not a burden on the State. You just have to look a little further. Above all, measures have been put forward in the Senate in this regard and I too will present one shortly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u78	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5,100, tabled by Senator Fucksia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u81	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, what Senator Fucksia said has meaning and content. It is clear that we are talking here about a measure relating to social agriculture, but we must not overlook the great potential of the rural system. From this point of view, rather than seeing Amendment 5.1 rejected, I would prefer to withdraw it, but I would ask the Government to really consider this opportunity because to include the word "also" means to give an extra opportunity, that is to say in the recovery of the rural aspect you can not say that if you do social farming you have an extra advantage; you can say that if you do social you are better, but to anyone doing agriculture you can only give an opportunity. I read the text of article 5: "The regions can - so it is even a possibility - "promote the recovery of the existing building assets for the use of agricultural entrepreneurs" - here we would like to insert the word "also" - "for the purposes of the exercise of the activity of social agriculture". Otherwise, it's like saying: you have the farmhouse that goes to pieces, if you do social agriculture you can recover it and I consider it rural; if you don't do social agriculture it will continue to fall apart. It is an opportunity, a possibility; you have written it yourself, it is not an exclusivity.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u84	BY THE TOR, Rapporteur. Madam President, beyond good reasoning, the opinion on Amendment 5.1 remains opposed because this issue is already being addressed in other articles. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.1 tabled by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. It's approved. Having been accepted by the Government, the G5.0.100 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 6, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which are set out, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u85	I am against all the amendments and agendas referred to in Rule 6.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u86	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u87	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.1 tabled by Senator Candiani. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). He's retired. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, it would be appropriate to make this clear to the Presidency. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, there are senators who do not do their job. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It is important that you make it clear when you intend to withdraw an amendment to the Minutes of the sitting, otherwise it cannot be registered.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u90	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I, along with the whole Group, take the Senator Candiani's amendment and ask for it to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u91	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.1, tabled by Senator Candiani, subsequently withdrawn and made by Senator Santangelo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u94	WOMAN (M5S). Madam President, with this amendment we are calling for easier access to land through leasing and not through the sale of state property. This is because right now, in a time of crisis, we believe it is right to facilitate people who want to undertake a social farming project both in order to be able to devote themselves to agricultural production and in order to give these people the opportunity to be more included in the social. Therefore, given that the Government has already given a negative opinion on all the amendments to Article 6, I would like to turn it into an agenda so that it can be taken into account in the near future with a clearer commitment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u95	Senator, it would be necessary to write the text of the agenda, because it is difficult to turn such an amendment into an agenda. WOMAN (M5S). I can be more clear, in a nutshell. Amendment 6.2 calls for the words 'alienation' to be deleted in paragraph 3. I ask you to turn it into an agenda, providing, in the near future and in the immediate future, for a commitment by the Government to assess the possibility - according to the usual formula that you require us - of renting out state property. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should write it down, because you have to decide on something and the government has to have a text. WOMAN (M5S). I would ask you then to put aside Amendment 6.2, so that we can proceed with the drafting of an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We therefore support Amendment 6.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u98	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, in the case of the previous amendment 5.0.100, which has been converted into an agenda, the Government has not received the text of the agenda. So, either we use an equal method for everyone or it's not good. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Sollo's comments.]] The same method that has been used previously, with the text of the agenda being delivered at this time, after the vote has already taken place, must also be used against the 5 Star Movement, with the same smile from the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u99	There is no discriminatory attitude, Senator Santangelo. If I may clarify, the additional amendment 5.0.100 has a written and articulated text, from which the commitment to the Government is desumable. Amendment 6.2, on the other hand, calls for the words 'alienation' and 'alienation' to be deleted; in this case it is more difficult to get the content of the agenda. We shall now proceed to the vote on the other amendments. Meanwhile, Senator Donno will make the agenda and then we will hear the Government's opinion on that agenda. Senator Candiani, do you insist on voting on amendments 6.3 and 6.4 or do you withdraw them?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u100	Madam President, we are asking for the vote, although it does not change much. It is said that incentives should be granted by the Government or, in any case, priority criteria that favour the products of social agriculture. We would prefer the formula to include criteria to promote it, because otherwise we risk creating disparities within the agricultural world. It is not to be excluded, since some such cases have unfortunately already occurred in Italy, that agriculture maliciously converts to social, not really being, just in order to be able to engage interventions for the benefit that otherwise would not have.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u101	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.3 tabled by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.4, tabled by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G6.1, presented by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G6.2, tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Amendment 6.2, which was previously put aside. I would ask Senator Donno to read the text of the agenda to which she intends to turn the amendment. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to pay attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u102	The agenda includes a commitment for the Government to provide that local authorities may establish priority criteria in the case of alienation or lease. This agenda is intended to replace amendment 6.2, which called for the deletion of the words: 'alienation' and'salienation'.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u103	Yes, the amendment was clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u104	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u105	Madam President, the opinion on the agenda is against.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u106	Senator Donno, you believe that you should give preference to the instrument of the lease over that of alienation: this is the theme. Given that today there is the possibility of alienation and that we still want to maintain the possibility of a priority for social agriculture, even if there is alienation, I would invite you to formulate the agenda in the sense of committing the Government to take action, even with the local authorities, so that forms of lease are preferred rather than alienation of public land. If the formula is of this kind, I believe that the government can accept the agenda, since obviously we cannot prohibit alienation: we can ask for preferred forms of lease. If, therefore, Senator, you consider that the wording of the agenda may be the one I have indicated, the Government accepts the agenda; otherwise the opinion will be against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u107	Yes, I am in favour of the Government's wording.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u108	Senator Donno, do you insist on voting? WOMAN (M5S). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda of G6,200, presented by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 7, to which amendments have been tabled and to which an agenda, which are to be referred, is set out, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u109	Madam President, the opinion is against Amendments 7.1 and 7.100 (text 2) and on the G7.1 agenda. Instead, we invite the presenters to withdraw amendment 7,100 (text 2) and to turn it into an agenda that commits the Government: "to assess the opportunity of "to" obviously at no cost to the administration. In that case, the opinion on the agenda will be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u110	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u111	Senator De Petris, do you accept the rapporteur's proposal? DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G7100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.1, tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u112	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G7.1 tabled by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u115	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I have to record that in the last two measures on agriculture which we have approved and which we are approving, the practice seems to emerge again, which we thought we had relegated to old institutions decades ago, to create new observers, national single committees, with a plethora of members, where, of course, associationism will not fail to act in order to indicate names and make reports. I would like to understand what happened to the famous simplification of the procedures and structures we have filled our mouths with - someone in particular, especially in the government - of which the electoral programmes have been filled and on which many things have been said. With this measure we are even setting up an Observatory on Social Agriculture, which is certainly a welcome initiative, but not if it is to serve only to feed pletoric commissions at national level (the organ, in the text approved by the Chamber and then by the Agriculture Commission, would have been composed of five representatives of the State administrations, five representatives of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, two representatives of the most representative agricultural professional organisations at national level, two representatives of the national social agriculture networks, two representatives of the organizations in the third most representative sector at national level, two representatives of social promotion associations, two representatives of cooperation organisations). The question of reducing the number of Members of Parliament pales in the face of the proliferation of these initiatives. [[Applause from Senator Ruvolo.]] I wonder why we have to go completely against the trend - in the agricultural sector as a matter of fact - with regard to simplifying and reducing those areas of the intermediate bodies which have created a great deal of inconvenience and have certainly been very censored in the past. With regard to the part relating to expenditure, all this is covered by the famous formula, provided that it does not entail new burdens for public finance, but new burdens for public finance must be understood in a general sense. I think it is absolutely inconceivable that these new plethora assemblies should be created, such as the single national committees provided for in the last decree to relaunch the agricultural sector that we have approved. In fact, this goes back as a first experience in the times of fascism, and then we dragged it for decades with considerable failures, also from the point of view of economic results. I refuse to think that there are no costs, even in terms of premises, electricity and expenses refunds. And in order not to create new costs for public finance, everything is borne by the Ministry of Agriculture, sacrificing, of course, portions of the budget chapters of the Ministry itself, which should instead be directed towards farmers and agricultural producers. I therefore believe that this is an absolutely censorable practice, and for this reason I shall vote against Article 7.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u116	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u119	CUOMO (PD). Madam President, I would like to point out that, during the previous vote, I mistakenly voted against. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u120	I declare closed the vote by secret ballot for the election of a member of the Council of President of the Court of Auditors. Pursuant to Rule 25, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure, I invite three Secretary Senators to proceed with the examination of the ballots and the calculation of the votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). Senators took part in the vote: Aiello, Loola, Albertini, Alicata, Amati, Angioni, Arrigoni, Arrigoni, Astorre, Augello, Auricchio Barani, Barozzino, Battista, Bellot, Bencini, Berger, Bernini, Bertacco, Bertorotta, Bertuzzi, Bignami, Candiani, Cantini, Capacchione, Cappelletti, Cardiello, Cardinals, Caridi, Carraro, Castaldi, Catalfo, Cattaneo, Centinario, Ceroni, Corellini, Chiavaroli, Crimollo, Cioffi, Ciciancich, Collina, Comaroli, Compagnone, Consiglio, Conte, Corsini, Crimi, Crimollo, Crimollo, Cioffi, Cicina, Cicina, Cicina, Collina, Comaroli, Comaroli, Compagnone
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u123	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask the House, through the Presidency, to postpone all explanations of vote and the final vote to the sitting tomorrow morning, in order to have continuity of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u124	Senator Crosio, your proposal should possibly be put to the vote, also because we have a very busy schedule of work for tomorrow's day. I do not understand the need for a postponement, since we will be able to reach the final vote by tonight's sitting. However, I would urge the representatives of the Groups to express their views on the proposal made by Senator Crosio.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u125	Madam President, we do not make it a matter of principle but, having heard the Group, we prefer to proceed with the work, with respect for the request of our colleagues in the League, and of course if the other groups agree too.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u126	Madam President, we too do not make it a matter of principle. Having time available, we ask that we move on with the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u127	Colleagues, I should like to point out that the sitting could only be suspended, because there is a vote that must continue. Therefore, this sitting cannot be closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u128	We too, Madam President, are of the opinion that we should move on.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u129	Madam President, our Group also wants to proceed with the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u130	Having noted the intentions of the groups, we shall proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u133	TARQUINIO (CRI). Madam President, the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of this measure, but for its social purpose and certainly not for the way it has been drawn up. In fact, it is affected by what we have approved - indeed, you have approved - on agriculture. There is no prospect. There is no clear intervention as it should be. While agriculture is recognised as everything, agriculture is also recognised as having the capacity to hire which would result from real use in social terms, the real problem remains. Agriculture also faces health problems and a thousand other issues, but it should be encouraged in all possible ways, including through tax exemptions and not taxation, as we have seen with the IMU on rural buildings. Therefore, our vote is in favour, but we have a hope for the Government, which in this year and a half has neglected agriculture. The great problems are all elusive and here again we are faced with a law that is only an enunciation of principles, without any connection with reality. The social problem remains, but we welcome the fact that we have felt the need to get into the substance of certain issues. (at 19.08) (Tarquinio followed). I hope that later, and as soon as possible, we can make a serious and real speech about the whole of agriculture and this segment, because the development prospects of our country are also linked to a serious and concrete investment on Italian and social agriculture. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u136	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, although we would have liked to see the amended measure in some parts, as proposed by our amendments, our opinion will be in favour. I must highlight to the attention of Deputy Minister Olivero the fact that the measure is amended and, therefore, will return to the examination of the Chamber of Deputies. The hope, Mr. Deputy Minister, is that they do not spend another 12 months and that at least on that occasion there will be the presence of the Secretary-General, to deign this measure of the attention he deserves. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u139	Formigoni (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, my speech serves to confirm the favourable opinion of the People's Area Group on this measure. The text we are about to approve has as its aim the promotion of social agriculture within the framework of a new vision of the agricultural enterprise, modern, projected to the future, multifunctional and called also to provide social and health services in rural areas. This measure, ladies and gentlemen, looks at those experiences of social agriculture that can transform mainly small businesses, small local experiences, which are actually able to contribute to a change of paradigm in the approach to the issues of social inclusion of subjects with low contractuality, trying to combine two seemingly conflicting logics: that of the income-producing company, capable of being on the market, and that time to offer services to the community. It is also worth pointing out that this measure looks at the most advanced experiences of social agriculture already present in the world and especially in Europe, as in the Netherlands, which - in almost unanimous opinion - is the country in which this experience first developed over time and in a very significant way in quality. Since the 1990s, a growing number of private farms have started offering rehabilitation treatment services; the system of organising services and their accreditation have allowed full recognition at national level. I would also like to point out that our vote in favour depends on the fact that the draft law under consideration takes into account - as is right - the exclusive competence of the regions in the field of agriculture and social policies, as provided for in Title V of the Constitution, and therefore has a soft character, as it should be. It is a bill that offers a basic regulatory framework, unifying but not homologating, and this is because the Regions can legislate according to their own judgements, and because experiences need to be able to grow and consolidate in a framework of freedom. The aim is to promote a framework law that sets out principles and methods of recognition and accreditation of social farming practices, avoiding to lock up the different forms of expression of social agriculture itself in static and rigid norms, respecting the diversity of forms and methods of expression of the close relationship with the social needs of the different territories and with the different agricultural resources and vocations available at local level. Without going into further details, I would just like to remind you that this multimodality of expression is also envisaged taking into account the subjects and forms of exercise of social agriculture itself and, therefore, provides for the possibility for these experiences to be articulated in different and distinct groupings. I would like to stress again as a positive element the provision of a National Fund for the development of pilot projects - there are, therefore, resources and we believe that this way of proceeding deserves the allocation - set up by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policies, in agreement with other Ministries. The law may indicate in general terms the priorities for selecting projects to be financed, always by the Regions. We also foresee a National Observatory on social farming practices with a joint composition between the State and the Regions, composed of significant actors at the national level of the social agricultural world, with a function of monitoring, identification of training programmes and promotion of social agriculture. These are the reasons why I really believe that the work done by the Commission and the House is something very positive, which deserves the support of the House itself. Without going too far, I would simply like to mention that other measures to support social farming are included in the measure. This also says how, within this sector of the Italian economy that we consider fundamental, the measures that the Government and the majority are putting in place, especially in recent weeks, draw an organic plan of measures strongly concrete. Beyond the speeches made by colleagues from other groups on this and on previous occasions, I believe that an objective examination of what the Government and the majority are doing in this area must receive a judgment with the sign ahead of us, because the things we are doing as a whole are really very positive. These are the reasons why, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I confirm the support of the Group of the People's Area for this measure. [[Applause from Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u140	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u142	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am taking the floor to announce the vote in favour of the PSI-MAIE Group. This draft law of parliamentary initiative underlines the multifunctionality of agricultural holdings which are of absolute importance, especially in peripheral areas and disadvantaged areas, such as mountain ones. We are convinced that the agricultural sector must be increasingly central to the economic recovery of the country and its escape from the crisis. The success of Expo tells us of the great attention with which Italians look to agriculture, also because it promotes values that focus on the quality of life, attention to health and the quality of food. Agriculture, as this measure shows, can also play a valuable role in terms of growth and social cohesion. From this point of view, in our mountain territory, in our areas or especially in South Tyrol-South Tyrol there are already significant experiences with educational farms, kindergartens in farms, educational projects and those for the full social inclusion of disabled people. All this, in our case, has distant roots that are rooted in the rites and traditions of the countryside always understood as a point of reference of our communities and as a meeting point between man and nature. It is good for this social function to find, today, its recognition also at national level, because from it can be born interesting opportunities for work and also new professional figures placed halfway between the farmer and the social worker, especially for young people who look with renewed attention to the sector. For this reason it will be important to define their classification also from the point of view of pension and pension: do they belong to the category of agricultural workers or to the category of social workers? This issue has already been raised by companies and employers' organisations, who hope that this measure will really enable their companies to develop in a social way, but without bureaucratic clogging. Therefore, if we want this measure to really contribute to the development of the sector, we need streamlined, simple and transparent implementing rules. Finally, I would like to point out that, with this measure, this House has approved in a few weeks the third measure on agriculture. It's an important fact that there's all this attention. However, there are still a number of issues that deserve the greatest urgency. Farms, especially small farms such as small farms, complain about the excessive rigidity and oppressive presence of bureaucracy. Moreover, the tax burden continues to be very high, especially for companies operating in disadvantaged areas such as mountain areas. Let us remember that mountain farms are an antidote to the depopulation of the territory. The part-time farmers also keep alive other activities in trade, tourism and for the protection and enhancement of the natural heritage, but at the same time produce products of excellence that contribute to promoting the typical product and enrich the entire agro-food supply chain. Mountain agriculture makes a contribution to the system which goes beyond mere agricultural production. That is why it needs to be equipped with instruments to ensure its protection and growth. Just as it is important to have a policy that puts agriculture more and more at the centre as a strategic sector for the exit from the economic crisis because - as this measure shows - it offers so many opportunities and possibilities. I would like to thank the government representative, Deputy Minister Olivero, the rapporteur, the President and the members of the Commission for the work they have done and for the signal we are giving to our farmers, to whom we recognise importance for humanity, for food and for the social role they play in everyday life, including through their multifunctional work. We must do our utmost to make agriculture the key sector of our country, and it is with this hope that I repeat the positive vote of the Group for the Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE to the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u143	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u145	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, it is clear to everyone that agriculture is becoming increasingly an activity that complements the traditional function of food production with the ability to generate related services, oriented not only to the market, but also and above all to values of absolute public utility. Its role in the rural landscape, the maintenance of biodiversity, contributing to the conservation of environmental resources, is also clear. The multifunctional role of agriculture is certainly and fully recognised not only in the common sense, but also in the main instruments of Community and national legislation, starting with the same definition of an agricultural entrepreneur. I would add that it is certainly recognized, but unfortunately - alas - it is certainly not valued and sometimes there is still - we think of the whole affair of the agricultural IMU - the full awareness of the value of agriculture itself. The development of multiple experiences now widespread throughout Italy is highlighting a further potential of agricultural activity, precisely in relation to its ability to generate benefits for vulnerable sections of the population and to give rise to innovative services that can effectively respond to the crisis of traditional social assistance systems. These experiences are now many in our country and have their roots in the peculiar continuity between family and company, on which the production unit of the primary sector is based, to enhance its social character and propose itself as a place for the integration in agriculture of practices aimed at therapy, rehabilitation of disabled people, job integration, social inclusion of disadvantaged subjects and the provision of educational, cultural and support services to families and educational institutions. I think - for example - of the many experiences of educational farms grown in our country. The interest of social workers in the rehabilitation of agricultural activity towards people with disabilities or disorders in the psychic sphere is now well established, leading to the growing spread of practices such as horticulture therapy, hippotherapy and pet therapy. In this context, the particular vocation of the farm to work inclusion, with a low threshold of access to work and a high organisational versatility, and the effectiveness of the agricultural and livestock production cycle in the context of socialization, training and support for education, are equally important. It is also important to stress that the integration of social interventions and services on the multifunctional farm does not frustrate its entrepreneurial aims, but gives particular effect on the social front. The many experiences in place also testify that operators who develop this vocation must not give up economic sustainability, which can benefit from the increased relationship of integration with the territory and the new relationships and market opportunities resulting from openness to external reality. The synthetic definition of social agriculture, which with this bill is finally made clear, contains therefore a varied reality and growing throughout the national territory, with a strong presence of promoters who come from social intervention and the third sector. Moreover, in recent years the commitment of many farmers, farmers and farmers, in this context, is growing, with particular reference - I mentioned earlier - to the experience of educational farms, which already constitutes a significant reference for the activities of support to education promoted by municipalities and educational institutions. But now social agriculture - this is the issue discussed by three legislators - has developed in the absence of a defined legislative framework, with the exception of the provisions approved by some regions. It is no coincidence that, in February 2008, I presented the first proposal for a national law in Parliament on social agriculture, which then placed the need to fully accompany the development of these innovative realities in a coordinated path that would allow us to fully grasp their economic and social potential. I would therefore like to announce with particular satisfaction the favourable vote of the senators of the Left Ecology and Freedom component and of the Mixed Group on this draft law, which - as unfortunately often happens for parliamentary measures - has had a complex and prolonged process, but which has allowed some useful insights into the original proposal, also thanks to the comparison with all organizations and social actors. In repeating our vote in favour, we hope, however, that the House of Deputies will quickly conclude the process of the bill, partly because it is the third reading. Above all - I am addressing the Deputy Minister - we hope that the Minister of Agricultural Policy will soon be able to issue the implementing rules on the basic requirements of the social services provided by farms, thus allowing the full application of the legislation and the rapid dissemination on national territory of these innovative experiences. That, not by chance, for many years and with all those who have known them and supported them with the work of volunteering, we wanted to call them farms that cultivate solidarity. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and PD Groups and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u146	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u148	GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to recall for a moment the parliamentary process of this law: transmitted to the Senate on 18 July 2014 and assigned to the referee on 21 July 2014, it virtually enlivened a year in the drawers of the President of the Formigoni Commission, and for what then? It is enough to look at the two texts (the one that came out of the other branch of Parliament and the one that came out of the Commission) to find out practically that the latest version is little more than a proposal for coordination than the previous version. Article 2 no longer refers to the Regulation of the European Union of 2008 but to one of 2014, and consequently there are some legislative references, here and there are added the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, and little else: all this in a year of work. Therefore, for the 5 Star Movement the same criticalities emerged in the work of the Chamber and that I go to recall. It was important to bring this bill to the House, given the national regulatory vacuum, as we have repeatedly said. It was important to consider that actions to support social agriculture are part of the Partnership Agreement and are therefore included in the overall strategy for using European funds. But it was also important, above all, to provide uniform criteria which, on the other hand, have not been in these years, given the delay with which this law has arrived in the Chamber. In fact, two legislatures have passed, as the Deputy Minister recalled earlier. There have been many problems that we have repeatedly stressed in the Commission: the Government has diminished the social function of agriculture, provided that the use of the link between nature and the productive dimension is understood as a social function. As we have said, this gives value and dignity to people in particular conditions and with special features and, therefore, under certain conditions of stability. It is well known that the production of an agricultural good is perceived as the result of a personal commitment and this helps people to have greater self-esteem and sense of self. That is why we have debated so much about the beneficiaries. Include people with reduced contractuality among the beneficiaries and, therefore - as we said in our amendment - those who have not had the job for six months, those over 50 who live alone, gives this law a form of assistance and no longer social. In addition, there is also the risk of improperly using this law to recruit the workforce, leaving aside, in fact, all purely social aims. Moreover, it does not make any sense, since this measure is rightly present in Decree-Law No 91 of 2014, so-called growth decree, in which it contains important measures to relaunch agriculture and provides specific facilities for those who hire workers who have not been regularly paid for at least six months and do not have a diploma in secondary education. Therefore, with this law we equip what is called a decree of growth, and that therefore relaunches agriculture, with a law that regulates social. Another issue that we have raised several times in the Commission, and today too, is the enlargement not only of the beneficiaries, but also of the operators of social agriculture: therefore, not only of farmers, but also of social cooperatives. We have said several times that we have nothing against social cooperatives, but our proposal considered social agriculture operators only agricultural entrepreneurs, with a collaboration that is indispensable, with other social workers, such as social cooperatives, but remaining the primary subject of the agricultural entrepreneur. We have therefore proposed to include social cooperatives, but only those with a prevailing agricultural turnover. It seemed to us that this proposal was common sense and that it could also be voted on by the majority, because we included the social cooperatives, as it wanted, and we satisfied our need to give an agricultural value to this law. But this amendment has also been rejected. Social agriculture is an innovative approach based on the combination of two concepts: multifunctional agriculture and social and welfare services at local level. On the one hand, it is closely linked to the multifunctional nature of agriculture and corresponds perfectly to the concept of rural development and thus offers farmers the opportunity to diversify their income; on the other hand, it also brings benefits to society, as it provides social services using agricultural and rural resources. To consider social workers also the social cooperatives, which already benefit from numerous facilities and occupy most of the available spaces of the third sector, however, means to remove an important part from the primary sector in order to diversify their activity, and that is why we tried to reduce a little the audience of the operators. Moreover - as has been said before - opening up the possibility of creating OPs raises more than one perplexity, especially because the audience of those who can do social agriculture opens. In addition to these problems that have already emerged in the House, I would like to point out the rejection of amendment 2.102, which called for companies to use only organic farming methods. We all know the importance of sustainable agriculture. We all know that the approach, even mental, between organic production and the vision of things is useful to people with difficulties and how biological requires much more work force than traditional. Therefore, while we are marrying the aims of social agriculture - and indeed, we are pleased that a measure that talks about social agriculture has finally arrived in this House - we consider too important the problems that we have presented both in this House and in the Commission and for this reason the 5 Star Movement will abstain on this measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u151	SCOMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Vice Minister, fellow Senators, Forza Italia will vote yes to this bill, despite the extremely negative judgment against the Government for what has been done little for a sector in extreme difficulty at this time. Social agriculture is a new practice that, through initiatives promoted in agriculture and food from farms, but also from social cooperatives, aims to promote the therapeutic reintegration of disadvantaged people in the community and, at the same time, produce goods. This is in summary a real operational tool, through which regional and local governments, either directly or through designated associations, can apply welfare policies in the territorial area, involving a plurality of legal entities, bodies, farms and citizens. The most common form of aggregation, which allows the application of these policies, is the so-called agrosocial company, known as also social farm. It is a traditional farm or a breeding of animals of various kinds, economically and financially sustainable and managed by several associated people. The company carries out its agricultural or zootechnical activity in order to sell its products on the market, but it does so in an integrated way and for the benefit of weak people, disabled people, former drug addicts, ex-convicts, elderly, ex-alcoholics, psychic patients, minors at risk of deviance, resident in fragile areas, and in collaboration with public institutions. This type of social association can also be defined as multifunctional, because it realizes rehabilitation therapeutic paths and reintegration of the stakeholders. Social agriculture is also an instrument of reappropriation of the individual, of its role in society from a professional point of view, since one of the aims is to promote reintegration into the world of work through the acquisition of agricultural techniques and practices. In recent years the number of social farms in Italy has grown from 107 to 230. Given the importance that this phenomenon is taking on, and given the social and economic benefits it brings, it would be appropriate to make appropriate use of an innovative agricultural policy, which this Government, unfortunately, has not done or has done very little, and which could not help a sector in crisis for a long time. Unfortunately, this government - I repeat again - has shown on several occasions that it is deaf to our proposals, depressing even more the sector with the introduction of new taxes, instead of supporting the development of new policies that would certainly have given more attention to a sector in difficulty. We believe it is worth remembering that the European Union has defined social agriculture as a priority for welfare policies and its Member States. Sustainable agriculture, food security, territorial balance, landscape conservation and the environment are the predominant characteristics for achieving the objectives. For all that said in premise, despite our negative judgment against the action of the Government, which has repeatedly increased the burdens and expenses for farmers, and despite our vain and repeated appeals, which have found a Government insensitive, but given the good purpose of the bill, Forza Italia will vote yes. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u152	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u154	GATTI (PD). Madam President, in declaring a positive vote on the draft law containing provisions on social agriculture, I should like to make a few comments. The first point is that this is a measure of an exquisitely parliamentary nature - and it is not very common in this House a situation of this kind - which stems from a cognitive investigation initiated by the Agriculture Commission of the House of Deputies in the last parliamentary term, which ended with the adoption of a final document in July 2012. Despite social agriculture - as many have said - is a phenomenon that is growing significantly in Italy and Europe, to date, in our country, we do not have a legal framework of reference at national level, but only regional laws that, among other things, are very different from each other. In Italy - and I refer to the intervention of the rapporteur Dalla Tor - the first experiences related to social agriculture date back to 1960. These were projects for the occupational integration of vulnerable people or at risk of marginalisation. The first experiences have proved to be among the most effective responses to the problem of vulnerability and marginalization and have allowed considerable rehabilitation and integration paths, in the face of the collaboration between local realities and institutions, according to new organisational models based on integration. It begins here to appear one of the elements that Senator D'Alì has emphasized as plethoric and not adequate, but that instead seems essential to me. I am referring to the ability to work together between local authorities, national authorities, ministries and forms of volunteering and aggregations, capable of intervening on the concrete problems that make social agriculture a fundamental experience. Among other things, social agriculture includes a plurality of experiences not attributable to a unitary model, because there are different types of organisation, activities that are carried out, recipients and sources of funding, but they are united by the characteristic of integrating socio-health, educational, training and employment activities into agricultural activity, but also socialization and recreation, aimed in particular at disadvantaged sections of the population and at the risk of marginalisation. Let us think - for example - that a characteristic of Italian experience in social agriculture is also the link with security policies. It would seem very distant, but I refer to the use of land confiscated from mafia organizations and the different experiences in prison situations. All this has been remembered by Senator Padua, but I think many of us have seen the wonderful RAI services on prison experiences on the islands, with the cultivation of excellences from the national agricultural point of view. These experiences present themselves as a further reflection of the concept of multifunctionality in agriculture, and this has been mentioned many times in this House. I would just like to say that the concept of multifunctionality is intrinsic to agriculture, because it produces not only food but also useful goods and services that provide answers to increasing questions from citizens: the protection of the environment and the landscape, the protection and protection of rural areas and the territory, the sustainable use of natural resources, food security. These are the multifunctionalities. We today, with this law, recognizing social agriculture as a related activity, add a piece to the multifunctionality in agriculture. The other important characteristic is that, in the experiences of social agriculture, social intervention is placed in institutions that are genuinely productive and organized in the form of enterprises. It is not, therefore, a logic of pure assistance. The social inclusion of disadvantaged people, for example, is achieved through the integration of work into business, which aims at the economic self-sustainability of employment created, thanks to commercial models that allow social farms, for example, to be competitive on the market. The survey that revealed all this contained the call for a regulatory intervention on social agriculture that would identify at national level the regulatory principles of the activity, in order to build a unitary framework of reference for regional legislation. I was also saying before that only some regions have legislated, and in a different way from each other, generating uncertainties and problems, especially in the start-up phase of the new companies of social agriculture. The other request was for the legislative intervention to coordinate the whole of the policies and competences involved - dear Senator D'Alì, it is precisely so, we think of how many different actors are involved, companies, social cooperatives, services of different public administrations, operators of different competences - and provide the basis for the development of all the potential of these experiences, also in relation to European agricultural policies. In addition, the need for the new law to follow and favour existing experiences was highlighted. Respect for the diversity of forms and ways in which the phenomenon develops, in relation to the needs of the territory, was called for, avoiding an excess of codification that would be harmful and limiting. Finally, there is a pressing demand to allow the recognition of workers in social agriculture and the activity they carry out on the territory. That is the draft law that I hope will be adopted today by a large majority in this House - and it seems to me that it will be so, judging by the explanations of vote that have been made - responds to many of the requests contained in the final document of the survey, although some things still remain outside. But we have, for the first time, an important first legal reference. The other point I would like to stress is that regulatory intervention is attributed to state competence (Article 117 of the Constitution, second paragraph, point (m)), as it relates to the essential levels of benefits relating to civil and social rights. This means that we are committed in this way to guaranteeing this kind of service, with regard to civil and social rights, throughout the national territory. This means that finally Italy as a leopard spot that we find with respect to social agriculture will become a homogeneous Italy. I think it is important to stress one point: particularly sensitive problems have also been dealt with, such as the relationship between social farming companies and social cooperation, the one supported by Law No 381 of 1991, the great law that has revolutionized the rules of the social state. The one I have identified seems to me to be an important balance. Another thing I would like to say is that it will be in the field, on the back of the institutions, the recognition of operators and the definition of their activities. The competent entity that will recognise these operators will also be the one to verify their competence and the services that are carried out and to monitor the intervention. Let me conclude, Madam President, by saying that the problem of rural buildings has also been tackled and resolved, in the way that has already been said. Finally, I would like to point out that the support measures defined in Article 6 seem to me to be very broad and that the support measures defined by the Observatory on Social Agriculture will be a key role. Therefore, the measure under consideration is an expected, important and useful measure which requires coordinated and integrated activities. That is why I confirm the positive vote of the Democratic Party Group, calling for a very fast passage to the House of Deputies for final approval. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u155	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u157	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u158	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill no. 1568, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). The draft law No 205 is therefore absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u161	Mr Olivero, Deputy Minister for Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy. Madam President, just to briefly express to this House a great deal of thanks for the vote. Special thanks go to the rapporteur, Senator Dalla Tor, for the work he has done, to the Committee on Agriculture and to all the colleagues who have contributed to the adoption of this important measure this evening. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u162	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u164	FALANGA (CRI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in a few days' time we will be voting in this House for the authorization to proceed with the arrest of Senator Azzolini requested by the Public Prosecutor of the Republic. None of us is, however, given the opportunity to read the acts of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. Let us consider the precedents of the Junta of elections and parliamentary immunity: I refer, for example, to the request to promote a conflict of attribution on the unconstitutionality of the Severino law in relation to the Berlusconi affair, which was not taken into consideration by the Junta, unlike what has been done instead for administrative courts, in particular for the TAR of Campania in the De Magistris case, and from what will be done for sure in a few days, because the precautionary measure of suspension of the measure by the Neapolitan court on the De Luca affair has already been anticipated. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, please come to the point. FALANGA (CRI). I shall conclude, Mr President, but I have to explain the reasons for my request. The previous ones show that the Junta has not done a job with an appreciable legal sensitivity. Already President Palma has asked for the convening of the Council for the Rules for the modification of the norm that provides the impossibility for us senators to read the acts and to express therefore a final judgment on the issue Azzollini. Since this is about the deprivation of a senator's personal freedom, I believe that each of us must vote after reading the acts and not trusting and taking on board the conclusions of an election committee which, in the past, has not shown any evidence of science, or, in any case, of attention to what may be scientifically relevant issues. For this reason, Mr President, I insist that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure should immediately convene and examine the request of Senator Palma, who I also make, to amend this absurd rule of the Rules of Procedure which does not allow us to read the acts and which requires us to vote so delicately on the basis of information from the Assembly for the elections. [[Applause from the CRI and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u165	I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u166	FALANGA (CRI). I hope that you too, Mr President, will take charge of urging this call. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I always enforce the rules, Senator, don't worry.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u167	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u169	THE COURT (PD). Madam President, I have asked to speak because today a very significant fact has happened also with regard to a subject that we are discussing at this time in the Senate. It happened that the court of appeal of Naples ordered a town in the province of Avellino, Santo Stefano del Sole, to transcribe the marriage between two French towns resident for many years in the Municipality of Campania, at their request. Well, we are now in a truly paradoxical situation, because we are in the presence of a circular by the Minister of the Interior of October last year that forbids mayors from transcribing marriages contracted abroad and requires prefects to automatically delete those acts transcribed by mayors. The circular has already been the subject, on several occasions, of judgments by various Italian courts, administrative and not, because that action of cancellation by the Minister of gay marriages contracts abroad transcribed by the mayors has already been considered illegitimate both by the TAR of Lazio, and by the TAR of Friuli-Venezia Giulia and the court of Grosseto has imposed twice on the municipality to transcribe a marriage of this type. The Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Udine stated that the law confers precise powers on the prefect on the registers of the civil state, but does not legitimize or admit a role so authoritarian and of similar prevarication of the prefect. We are in the presence of an absurd situation, in which the courts recognize the fact that marriages contracted abroad must be transcribed in Italy and a minister illegally orders the prefects to cancel these transcripts. What will the Minister of the Interior do? Will you order to cancel the judgment of the Court of Appeal of Naples? I hope that the Minister will draw the conclusions of this absurd situation and withdraw this circular. I have tabled a question to this effect which I would ask my colleagues and colleagues to sign so that they can submit the matter to the Minister and hope that it will be resolved once and for all. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u170	I declare the result of the secret ballot vote for the election of a member of the Council of President of the Court of Auditors: [[Senators present 245 Senators voting 244 Majority 161]] He got votes: [[Maurizio Leo 6 Dispensi 6 White papers 197 No papers 35]] Since no name has reached the prescribed absolute majority of the members of the Senate, a new vote will be required, which will take place on a date to be established by the Conference of the Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u171	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u173	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Madam President, I rise at the end of the sitting to denounce yet again the forced entry of prefectures into the national territory. The other night 58 arrived in Rovetta, in Bergamasco, half of Central Africa, half of Cinghalese, housed in a property that has been a closed hotel for at least thirty years. Think that this property was closed because the owners, who had inherited it, had to put it for sale because they were too high the expenses for compliance. The mayor of Rovetta already knew from June 26 that the property had given availability. And we are talking about another 80 people coming in the next few days, in a structure of this same small village in the Seriana Valley. These are not isolated cases, but concern the whole valley, from Lizzola to Valbondione to Cerete to Rovetta and we are also talking about other immigrants who should arrive in the hamlet of Nese to Alzano Lombardo. They are huge forcings in a territory already experienced by a huge crisis, where some private unfortunately is doing gold business. No institution has been concerned with informing citizens, Madam President, of the night-time arrival of these immigrants and of everything that would have happened. It was not even thought of being able to modify the project or to put in condition the prefect to make the citizens participate in what a deadly trabucco had set in motion in the secret rooms. I wonder if the city administration knew or not. And so that in these hours she made use of the faculty, very used in these cases, of the discharge of the barrel. Citizens have the right to know, Madam President. Citizens have the right to know what is happening on their territory. I insist that you cannot make a merchant's ear on such matters. Citizens sometimes entrench themselves into muffled rooms, as if the problem weren't theirs. This did not happen in our villages, where the information to citizenship then arrived with spontaneous assemblies. Furthermore, administrations are asking ASLs to check the health conditions of the structures that immigrants will have to receive. This is for the protection of both those who are included in these structures and for the local citizens. When citizens are not satisfied by the institutions, then we will have, as will happen this evening (even if they are already in progress at this time), assemblies where the problem will certainly be addressed. Citizens are asking for certainty. They don't want to be fooled at all. This is a little useful attention or a lack of attention to people who, however, love their territory. We know the problem of immigration a little bit. Even this morning the good Minister of the Interior told us a bit about the history of the bear in this respect. However, I would argue that this problem cannot be dealt with. Because if we empty Africa, then we fill Europe. This is the dilemma that will accompany us in the coming months.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u174	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u176	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, Hacking Team is a computer company that proposes the first offensive solution for computer investigations. Their products are basically for government wiretapping. The product is able to capture data stored on a user's computer, allows government surveillance of an encrypted message via the Internet, to copy files from a computer's hard drive, Skype calls, emails, instant messages, passwords typed in a browser, and can also turn on a device's webcam and microphone to spy on the target. For this reason they are considered, in everything and for everything, computer weapons. Now, Citizen Lab, a Toronto group that deals with privacy, has identified 21 suspicious governments clients of Hacking Team: Azerbaijan, Colombia, Egypt, Ethiopia, Hungary, Kazakhstan, South Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Morocco, Nigeria, Oman, Panama, Poland, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Thailand, Turkey, Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan and Italy. Now, Hacking Team has always denied having supplied this type of product to Sudan, but the fact remains that, recently, it seems that their site has been hacked and that it has been proven that these denials are not correct. In fact, it would appear an invoice of 480,000 euros of July 2012, which would prove precisely this supply. We are also concerned about a few more details. This company, which would seem to supply IT weapons to Governments from which migrants flee who then arrive in Italy, was financed by Finlombarda Gestioni SGR, which has for sole shareholder Finlombarda SpA, that is the financial for the development of the Lombardy Region. Basically, they had public funding. At this point we would like to understand what ethical control is on this market; moreover, by appearing Italy - and in particular the Presidency of the Council of Ministers - as a client of this company, we would like to see clarity on this matter. In particular, I have submitted a question to the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Economic Development to clarify what control is being carried out on the exports of computer weapons of Hacking Team to countries present on the international black list; to know if the recipients of the question intend to take action in the Lombardy Region to clarify the ethical practices applied by the fund of investment Finlombarda in the provision of financing to the enterprises, to what extent and with what protocols the Italian Government uses this software since it would no longer seem so safe and, if the relationships between the company and the Italian Government are confirmed, what are the risks to safety and what type of use the Government made of this software. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr Paglini (M5S). I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u177	Senator Paglini, I do not give you the floor, because I remind you, as I told the whole House, that the Presidency must be informed at least thirty minutes before the end of the sitting. Therefore, if you agree, I would like to put you as before in the end-of-session speeches tomorrow morning. Thank you very much, so it helps me to keep the rules.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u178	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-480.ana.u179	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 9 July, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.06 p.m.
