ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:38 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u4	MASTRANGELI (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:43 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u10	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, what happened last night deserves not only to be made aware of all the senators and the House, but I think it is extremely serious from the procedural point of view of this debate for the approval of the electoral law. You will remember perfectly well, Mr President, that at yesterday afternoon's sitting at 6.30 p.m., Senator Crimi, myself and many other senators raised the question of the fact that we are in a rather unusual situation from a procedural point of view. We will then discuss for a long time the fact that we have arrived in the Chamber for the examination of the electoral bill, deliberately choosing not to finish the work in the Commission and therefore without giving the mandate to the rapporteur. Yesterday's news of the agency made it clear that the government would not table amendments, in fact to avoid submission of sub-amendments, and we had heard that the amendments that had already been tabled to the Commission by the rapporteur would be tabled by majority senators or majority group leaders. We had therefore asked you, Mr President, if this situation had occurred (which was quite certain), to have sufficient time to be able to subservient. Now, what happened? The deadline for tabling amendments was 8 p.m. At 9 p.m., in fact, at 9 p.m. (I re-checked the time of the phone call on my mobile phone), the offices of the Senate warned me by telephone (without of course sending the amendments) that the deadline you set for submitting sub-amendments would expire at 11 p.m., so even without the material possibility of doing a minimum reading job in relation to the decision on the type of sub-amendments to be submitted. Among other things, Mr President, you know that most of the senators in this House have neither received this news nor seen the amendments; therefore, they have been taken away from the possibility of being able to subservient. In all this, I'm not here to tell you about the vicissitudes to be able to return to the Senate, since it took another twenty minutes before you could access your offices. Mr President, last night I asked you to postpone the deadline for tabling amendments, to give the opportunity to all the senators who wanted to be able to do their job. You say you've already granted, out of the ordinary. But yesterday, Mr President, when we put this matter, we could well give the answer immediately or give a reasonable time for the submission of the sub-amendments. What has happened, that is, the fact that those of us who have managed to table sub-amendments have done so with difficulty and with serious complication, once again raises the question of what is the process that we are following for the debate and approval of this electoral law. The electoral law, Mr President, is not just any measure, but it is, in a democratic system, the founding law, and it is not just about agreements outside this House or outside Parliament. It is not only about the agreements between the parties, but also about the choice of each individual senator, who must be able to know and therefore, if he wants, to be able to do his job: to table amendments and discuss them. We are not all like machines that are in the money or under someone's orders. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-MovX Groups and Senators Gambaro and Bocchino]] We are in this House to be able to decide freely, Mr President, and we must all be in a position to do our job. However, at this point I also wonder if there is any certainty that those amendments by the majority have been tabled out of time, because it is not clear why it was decided so late to give news of the possibility of subempting, at an absolutely ridiculous time, given that the work of the House had now ended at 8.30 p.m. Dear President, I am stigmatizing this way of proceeding. She's gonna think we should be used to this kind of casual. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, LN-Aut and Misto-MovX Groups and Senator Bulgarelli),]] But we do not get used to it, Mr President, nor do we want to get used to it. Therefore, I would also like to ask you formally, since you could also have called a group leader to decide a reasonable time, not only to have real and serious attention in the course of this debate at all stages of the procedure, but, as far as what happened yesterday is concerned, I would ask you formally to reopen the deadline for submission of sub-amendments, so as to give all the senators in this House the opportunity to sub-empt. It is no longer acceptable, Mr President - and I come to the conclusion - that the electoral law should continue to go on with tricks, because that is the issue. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S, LN-Aut and Mixed-MovX Groups.]] The first trick is that we should not finish our work in the Commission because there must be no rapporteur, because we must have free hands; we were forced, before Christmas, to frame the measure at dawn because the President-in-Office of the Council had to make his tweets. It is no longer possible to go on like this. We have already written in this Senate an ignoble page during the adoption of the bill on constitutional reforms. We cannot repeat the same spectacle with regard to electoral law. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S, LN-Aut and Mixed-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u13	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I understand that today will be a very special day for you - it is for all Italians, and perhaps more so for you than for all our fellow citizens - but we are going to have these moments of debate in this House and of requests that may seem minor than what will happen in our country in the next few hours. I have listened to Mr De Petris' speech, and I am a little disappointed that no one has officially informed the North League that there had been a reopening of the terms, Mr President. Yesterday, Senator Calderoli, in the late evening, when the deadline for tabling amendments had expired, telephoned me to tell me that he had spoken with Senator De Petris, who had explained what had happened. Therefore, no senator in my Group has been given the opportunity to submit any sub-amendments. Senator Divina was home sick and came back today, Senator Candiani and Senator Stefani were with me and therefore no one from the Bureau of the League Group told you, President, your decision to reopen the terms. I think that, since we are still in a democratic country and a parliamentary group, albeit small, has the same dignity as the majority groups, perhaps even smaller than the League Group, we must be given the opportunity to express ourselves, to present sub-amendments and to be present effectively to this reform of the electoral system. Therefore, while I really appreciate your openness, Mr President, in order to postpone the deadline for submission of sub-amendments to 11 p.m., I regret to have to ask you formally first of all for the convening of the Conference of Leaders and, at the same time, to anticipate that during the Conference we will ask for a reopening of the deadline for submission of sub-amendments. These sub-amendments, in our opinion, must refer to all the amendments and not only those tabled by the majority; therefore those tabled by the League could also be sub-edited by any senator who considers it useful. We also share the doubts raised by Senator De Petris: at what time were the majority amendments tabled? We at the League were present at the offices at 8:00 p.m., (in front of my cell phone it was 7:59 p.m.) and up to that time no representative of the majority had tabled amendments. We stayed there until 8.10 p.m., so if it had already been decided to reopen the deadline, there are no problems, although it does not seem to me that way at that time, Mr President. Here too, therefore, what we are asking for is respect for the rules, that respect for the rules that - I regret to say - did not exist during the examination of the draft law on constitutional reforms, so much so that this summer we, if you remember, complained about this we even tried to go to President Napolitano, finally resigned, to ask for justice on the respect of the rules. What I would like to avoid is having to repeat in two or three days a similar march by asking you, if necessary, to join us in order to enforce the rules, Mr President. I hope, as you see very quietly, that your last act will be to enforce the rules in this House and to allow a parliamentary group such as the Northern League to participate actively with sub-amendments to the debate on electoral reform. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Misto-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u16	DI MAY (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I would like to say that you are writing the worst parliamentary history of this House, signed by Michele Ainis, according to whom the Presidents often make the history of the country, that you are writing the worst parliamentary history of this House, and I say this as one of those who voted for it in the presidency of the Senate and did so because you have a personal history that makes it one of those people who should care very much about the third-party role that you represent. Unfortunately, I have to check, after what we have lived in this House both for constitutional reforms and for electoral law, that you have completely abandoned this third party. It is an incontrovertible fact, which cannot be silenced, that we are allowed only two hours to subservient the electoral law. Among other things, that this happens between 9 p.m. and 11 p.m. on a normal day of our work shows, in fact, that this House is already dissolved. In my reasoning in this House during the examination of the Constitutional Reform Act, I made quite strong statements saying that this is a blackmailed Parliament. I've seen that many have overshadowed it, but I think all possible and imaginable veils have fallen. I believe that it is now worthwhile for the Presidency of the Council to come to this branch of Parliament to decide definitively what the rules of the game are and how Parliament's rules should be conducted. [[Applause from the groups (Applause from the LAG Group (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI), LN-Aut and Misto-MovX)]] At a very delicate moment in our political life we are witnessing extremely disturbing events, because what happens in these hours really puts us in a position to have to verify what are the fundamental pillars of the democratic system of our country and who will have to assume roles that guarantee our democratic life. Mr President, have a lot of pride, defend this House and see, if it is possible, through your role as President, to remedy the problems that Parliament's work is encountering at the moment. And above all, a fundamental fact, intervenes to restore the real rules of the game, capable of guaranteeing a secure democratic system for the country. [[Applause from the LAG groups (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI), LN-Aut and Misto-MovX.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u19	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I thank you as much as I thanked you yesterday when you gave me the opportunity to put a personal appeal to your attention. I thought I had put this issue in terms perhaps a little too alarming, and I would never have expected to be overcome in the magnitude of the alarm, already present in my words yesterday afternoon, when in the evening you managed to carry out an operation totally contrary to the rules; an operation that nullified the guarantees of this House and significantly depressed the possibility for each senator to subemend, even in a formula that I have never seen, but authorized by the leaders, that is to say subemend amendments by Members. In addition, in this equality of dignity between the amendments tabled by the senators - whether considered by a majority or not is a subtle issue that interests us little - we have not allowed the other Members to carry out, with due attention, a sub-emerging activity, by ending at 11 p.m., I consider it even more serious than I could have feared in my speech yesterday. Mr President, we are at a delicate stage which I would like to make even more specific. We are working on electoral law, that is, one of the mother laws of a Parliament, without rapporteur and, in a few hours, without Head of State. In a few hours you will no longer be the President of the Senate, but the Provisional Head of State. Do you realize the importance and delicacy of a phase like this? And you think you can guarantee such a delicate phase by giving a two-hour deadline, at 11:00 p.m., for sub-emerging activity, like you did last night? Evidently, this supposed majority of night workers like to work very much. In fact, as it happened for the law of stability and as it is happening for the electoral law, we are faced with the topical moments of a debate that concerns very important issues for the destiny of the country always at night. Why do you have to do things at night instead of daylight? [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]] So, I'm gonna make a request. A political season ends with the resignation of the Head of the Napolitano State, which many have called a kind of king. King George, after nine years, leaves. I would ask you, Mr Grasso, not to go into history as the drifting king and to be the guarantor of this House and of the whole of Parliament in the exercise of its right, that is to say, to be able to represent here the citizens, the political bodies, and to confront the political agreements, which are all lawful and legitimate when they happen in the light of day. I am therefore asking you, personally, to be able to accept the proposal of the Leader of the North League to revise those terms and to ensure that this Senate plays its role as long as there is. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and Misto-MovX groups and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u22	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). President Grasso, I am speechless. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u25	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, this early deadline at 11 p.m. has left everyone shocked, starting with oppositions, but not only - I suppose - because I do not know how many Senators of the Democratic Party have possibly been able to subempt or have been warned themselves in the majority, apart from the usual four or five names that have even subjugated their amendments. Apart from that, this system has clearly been consistent with a whole series of unacceptable procedures for this part of Parliament. We have seen this, as my fellow Members reminded us, with the draft law on constitutional reforms and the incardination of an electoral bill which, against Article 72 of the Constitution, was placed on the agenda in this House without the end of the debate in the Commission; we have been discussing for days a text that did not exist, so much so that we have withdrawn our speeches. This is the last part of a procedure that we consider unacceptable and have already said so several times. Therefore, we also ask first of all that this way of proceeding be broken, at least at the dawn of a change in this nation, which many hoped for and which you see involved; therefore, surely the best gesture to make can be to bring back the times and the modalities of the discussions to a more civil and democratic method, allowing the senators to do their work, that is to amend the electoral bill, which is the most important norm of the State, and which determines the power of the people and the incidence of the power of the people, which has now disappeared. I therefore ask you, before you sit down on another area, even more important than what you are currently dealing with, to make this gesture, to reopen the terms, to allow us to amend the draft electoral law, as we all hope, and to restore balance in a democratic system of majorities and oppositions that has been missed. In fact, when during the examination of constitutional reforms the oppositions (and I hope that does not happen with her, at least during this interim period) went to protest from the Head of State, the latter did not receive them, because it was rather interested in favoring the pantomime that we continue to attend. Moreover, when the opposition - I specifically - asked at the Conference of the Leaders whether it was constitutional to incardinate the electoral bill on 20 December at 7 a.m., it was said that it could be done. And of course, this is the adage that led this legislature: it can be done. It sounds like the joke of a well-known comedy movie, but that's the sad reality. I do not want to delay the announcement of the abdication, but I must tell you that my Group is deeply disappointed and pretends, together with the other oppositions, to be heard. This is a time when one can take a step to demonstrate to citizens that they are not completely cut off from the institutions and that those who voted to enter here, to decide the fate of a country and to vote an electoral law that allows the people to still have the sovereignty (a term of which someone has forgotten the meaning), at least have the opportunity to work and not depend on four executors of a government dictatorship that has now crossed any limit of tolerance. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u28	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I understand this debate, because we are dealing with a matter of extreme institutional and political sensitivity. We have spent many years with an electoral law that the country refused and that has caused much damage, to Italy and - I personally believe - also to democracy. I understand, therefore, that there is also a debate on procedural issues, since the sensitivity and importance of the matter require it. However, I would like to draw the House's attention to the substance of the problem which was discussed at this beginning of the sitting and also urge it to reject - and I do so with absolute conviction - the very unpleasant expressions that Senator Di Maggio used against him: unfair expressions, President. We are discussing sub-amendments to parliamentary amendments. Now, we all know, because we are in Parliament - even the new senators, because there have been at least two years - that the sub-amendment is envisaged for government amendments, whereas for those of Parliament this option is not provided for. MARTON (M5S). That's not true! [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] ZANDA (PD). I therefore think that you have done what is wise and you have also grasped the delicacy of the matter by granting a further deadline, in the wording of the sub-amendment, at the time of 8 p.m. ENDRIZZI (M5S). It's a right! ZANDA (PD). Allow me then to make a more general point. We often raise questions of principle in Parliament, and I think it is right, because politics is based on principles and, among the principles that we must defend, there is the freedom of Members to amend measures as they believe and in the ways they think are necessary. This option has been widely used in the Commission on this electoral law, with the submission of 17,000 amendments, and it has also been widely used in this House, because 44,000 were tabled yesterday. Now, it is right that we should push on matters of principle, President. I cannot, however, fail to say something in which I believe: pushing on the principles too much further, ever further, can also hurt the principles that we want to defend. [[Applause from the PD Group. Senator Bulgarelli's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u31	CHITI (PD). Mr President, I have asked to speak because I believe that this is also a matter for individual Members and not just for Group positions. I have to tell my colleagues I'm very embarrassed. If it weren't an expression that lends itself to jokes, I would seriously say that since yesterday I really am not serene. When Mr Crimi made his speech, I thought - and I honestly say this - that it was one of the usual forcings or inventions: it seemed unlikely what was being announced. Then there was Mr Bonfrisco's speech and the debate developed. The fact is that in advance, in order to try to solve possible incursions of obstructionism, it has been built - this is the point that differentiates me from you, Senator Zanda - one or more major parliamentary amendments - as then emerged - also involving figures who have an institutional role in this Senate. The major parliamentary amendment, precisely for this reason - Senator Zanda - cannot be amended unless there is an amendment by the rapporteur (who is not present on this occasion) or by the representative of the Government. That's the problem. Those who criticize President Grasso look at the finger and not the moon. You have to look, if you want, at the finger and the moon. I think that President Grasso has been faced with an unprecedented and difficult situation and has modified the current Rules of Procedure, allowing the possibility of submitting sub-amendments, returning a minimum of correctness and serious comparison to the work that this Senate must do. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli]] Then I agree - and this is my invitation to you, Mr President - that the offices cannot be blamed for this. If the deadline for tabling amendments expires at 8 p.m. and extends to 11 p.m. - I understand that thousands of amendments have been tabled - it is unlikely that everyone will be able to warn at a certain stroke. Therefore, consider yourself: the general debate is still under way and, perhaps, if you extend the deadline for submitting the sub-amendments by a further two hours, I do not think anyone is upset. Let's take the positive: now on four major amendments it is possible to submit sub-amendments. In this way a ground is restored that makes possible a comparison, an evaluation and a deepening. Consider whether or not you can grant this additional contribution. I feel embarrassed, indeed, because I think that there should also be involvement within the parliamentary groups on these issues, and not surprises. We are so sensitive that - rightly - we do not want to change even the rules for the conduct of the primary elections of our party in progress: we will want to be equally strict in not changing the rules of the Senate in progress! [[Applause from the PD, M5S, LN-Aut, Mixed-SEL and Mixed-MovX Groups]] Finally, with regard to the number of amendments, I fully agree with President Zanda and, addressing my colleagues in the North League, I would add: it does not help either. The 40,000 amendments amount to zero amendments. It is another element that is of no use to anyone, or perhaps to give cover to an operation to force the Rules of Procedure. Two mistakes don't do a good thing, a good thing. Difficulty and confrontation with the majority are not solved by narcotic inventions, which are then followed by dramatic backwardness, as you are often doing, ladies and gentlemen. I say it with respect, but it seems to me to take a precise picture. These are delicate days with a President of the outgoing Republic who has accompanied the stability of Italy and to whom I want to address my appreciation and my thanks from here. We may agree or not, but he has accompanied the evolution and difficulties of this country for nine years. [[Applause from the PD, LN-Aut and AP (NCD-UDC) Groups),]] sacrificing his life and activity. I remember he's turning 90. On such a delicate day when you, Mr President, are about to take on an additional role - for which I express my sincere wishes, as well as for President Fedeli, because we will have difficult days - the greatest balance, maximum rigour, maximum transparency and responsibility are necessary. These are the feelings I feel and felt like expressing myself. Being here, sometimes, even the private individual who is political must be made available to the evaluation of colleagues. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u34	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, President Chiti is always very careful: I remember his reading during the examination of the constitutional reform, when he begged and invited her to get rid of some practices, which they had formed, to prevent them from creating dangerous precedents for the future. You see, Mr President, a great deal has already been said to you, in terms of serenity, in assuming the responsibilities that will come to you in the next few hours. However, we must be aware that, if situations are reached, there are also causes that have created them. We do not claim the right of one party to be prominent over the other, but the right of each party to have the same opportunities for democratic exercise, which must be guaranteed to every senator in this House. President Chiti mentioned a large number of amendments tabled by our Group. Mr President of the Senate, we have also put a bulwark in defence of the democratic rights of the other senators, because those amendments certainly constitute a point of comparison with the majority, which did not want a rapporteur in this House and did not allow the synthesis to be concluded in the Commission. We have already seen this behaviour before, with the budget law and the financial law. As the President of the Budget Committee said very correctly, it would have taken only a few hours to complete a good job, which has been very lengthened, very messy and muddled, with the work in this House. In this case the same condition is reappearing, but in worse terms, because we are talking about something that will clearly affect the democratic balances of the country. You see, Mr President, what we are facing is probably the so-called perfect storm: there is the electoral law, which will allow one part to win and - I pray God - not to crush the others; there is a vacation in one of the most important constitutional offices, the President of the Republic; there is the constitutional reform under discussion in the House of Deputies. President Zanda has a good thing and a good thing to say, in his majority part, that he wants to compress the rights of oppositions to be able to speak on equal terms. We do not have the possibility that the majority will intervene, but this same possibility must be guaranteed to each senator. The three major amendments, presented by the majority senators, should have been submitted by the rapporteur or the government. This was not the case, by choice of the Government, and the fact that we want to come to this House, by expropriating the Commission, its President and the rapporteur of this right, cannot undermine the rights of the other senators. President Chiti, we have tabled those amendments to defend the right of each senator. What is happening today, in this House, allows everyone to be aware of a derubrication of the current rules. What serenity can the legislator assist, when this is the management of the rules, at a time when the electoral law and constitutional reform are being reviewed in the Chamber of Deputies that will affect the future Senate? You, Mr President, are well aware of the instruments which, according to the Rules of Procedure, are in your hands in order to ensure that there is no further slippage of democracy, and I do not mention Rule 100 (5) of the Rules of Procedure and all the others. You have the right to do so. Mr President, may I refer to this situation and allow each party not to feel overwhelmed by the other. President Zanda makes a point: there is still a democracy in this Parliament, at least in expressing a different opposition and position, such as that of Senator Di Maggio, which must be respected, no matter how inconvenient and uncomfortable it may be for someone. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Di Maggio, Gambaro and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u37	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I do not think that we can end this with an apology or a warm cloth, which grants senators and the Senate what is a right, that is to say, knowing what we are discussing and opposing. We have worked, both in the Commission and in this House, on ghost texts, and not only because in other places the fundamental choices were agreed among a few, very few, unworthy people, but also because then these agreements and pleas were kept obscure. We have repeatedly called for transparency on this. And these agreements were kept dark not only by the parties that had concluded them, but also by those who then, in some way, brought them into these classrooms, with interventions at the last moment, in extremis and indeed, from what seems to understand, certainly beyond the terms. At this point, you may have made us the last fool of yourself yesterday. Today, then, it could make the last gesture of responsibility and indicate that this measure must return to its natural seat, to the natural incubator of democracy, which must first of all be the Commission, for an electoral law and for constitutional reforms, and then the House. Today, if we want to try to recover a dignity and respect, even mutual, between the forces of majority and opposition, between all of us and those in other foreheads have institutional and non-institutional tasks, then we should bring back the path of this law to the right beehive. I would like to point out to the President that there is no reason to be in a hurry. The haste is a bad councilwoman, as we have seen recently with amendments 1,7000 and then 1,7000/1: those who proposed the amendment, that is, immediately corrected it. We are in no hurry to have an electoral law that will only be valid from 2016. On the other hand, we need a good electoral law which, in the first place, should give applicability to the Constitutional Court's ruling, and do not abuse the provisions of the Constitutional Court. And then, we have to work in the long run to give the country a law that serves not for the contingent interests of this or that, but for the good of all. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u38	At the end of this debate on the order of business, I would like to thank Senator Chiti for stigmatizing what was a painful decision that I had to make last night, when I had to wait to know the number of amendments that were tabled, and which reached the number of about 43,000, between amendments and sub-amendments. Therefore, I have made an innovative decision on practice, where the sub-amendment to government amendments or those of the rapporteur has always been allowed. And I decided to open the deadline for submission of sub-amendments, just accepting what were the requests, made by the group leaders in the afternoon, to be able to have this possibility. As you know, under the Rules of Procedure, the sub-amendment is voted before the amendment, so there will be all the possibility - with reference to the hundreds, indeed, thousands of sub-amendments presented - to tackle funditus, in depth, all the elements that make up the electoral law. We have therefore tried to raise awareness of the offices, which have been opened all night, and with reference to the end of 11 p.m. I myself gave instructions to try to be very flexible in order to allow anyone to table amendments. Some of the proposed amendments, which are among those accepted - I have no difficulty in saying so - were tabled after midnight, even at midnight and a half, and therefore well beyond the time limit which had been indicated, with wide discretion and tolerance, in order to allow everyone this option, which I considered right. The Heads of Groups, Senators De Petris and Bonfrisco, Senator Crimi and all those who have made this request have asked above all to be able to subjugate those who are referred to as government amendments, i.e. signed by the Leaders of the majority. In order to start offering these amendments, we had to unpack them first and search among the over 40,000 tabled. I would therefore like to understand the work done by the offices which - I repeat - have been opened all night so that we can deal with this number of amendments which, although not an expert in parliamentary records, I think I can define as not every day and which will certainly lead to an out-of-the-way job on the part of all the offices. This has happened. CASTALDI (M5S). And whose fault is that? CARDINALI (PD). Shut up! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I therefore believe that the attempt - as it has been proposed - to replace an amendment which could replace a sort of surreptitious vote of confidence does not exist, because then there were also several replacement amendments (three, plus a sub-amendment to the amendment, as was well stigmatized by Senator Endrizzi), for a law which, according to the amendments, for the safeguard clause, will enter into force in July 2016. This is the situation that has emerged from the contributions of all the Groups and from the work that has been done so far. [[Senator Castaldi's comments.]] You will therefore have the opportunity, through the vote on sub-amendments before the amendments, to assess and anticipate all the situations and parts of merit that are worth supporting and voting democratically by this House. Although I have innovated a practice for which there were no precedents, I believe that I have given everyone the chance to subempt those texts. The number of amendments tabled, well beyond the deadlines set, has rooted me in this idea this morning. GAETTI (M5S). Not everyone! Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That is because the Groups have been notified, as it turns out by the communications that my offices have made to you. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I had to warn everyone! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. However, this has happened and - as I said - there has been tolerance in terms: the offices have been opened all night just to allow this. I don't think there's any doubt about that. I challenge anyone who has found the offices of the Senate closed tonight: they were opened, waiting, all night long, also in order to begin preparing the work of fasciculation of the amendments. We now have a clear issue of deliberation. CASTALDI (M5S). But what's it for? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The general debate that will resume, as soon as we move on to today's agenda, can only take account at last of the issue of the resolution for a serious debate on the elements presented in the form of amendments and sub-amendments. That's the situation I'm leaving you with. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] A situation - in my opinion - which is absolutely respectful of all the democratic possibilities of the Senate House, in order to carry out a difficult job, which I hope will find a democratic sharing on the points of convergence on the electoral rules. I believe that this cannot be denied, and I thank you once again for the dialectical relationship.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u39	I greet the students and students of the Parisian Institute "Angelo Poliziano" in Rome, who are following our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u42	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I will go along this line very quietly, as I did before. The deadline for tabling amendments was 8 p.m. By 8 p.m., everyone had to have tabled the amendments. We 'kill' our offices to table our amendments by exactly 20 o'clock. You have subsequently reopened the terms - I repeat later - without communicating it to the parliamentary groups. The Group of the League - now publicly challenge its offices - has not received any communication: I have never been contacted and this is my cell phone service, whose number everyone has. Senator Stefani has not been contacted and the same applies to Senators Candiani and Divina. None of the League has been contacted for the reopening of the terms. I regret to have to deny the incoming President of the Temporary Republic or what his role will be. And I'm sorry to have to deny something else: when you say that the offices had to look for majority amendments in the 43,000, I vote for the closure of this Senate and its offices. In any normal office there is a protocol and, at a time when the League Group brings 40,000 amendments, they are taken over and, at a time when the majority presents its own, the same happens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] He's not talking about the manager of an organized company, he's talking about a simple person. This is done in any company and in the circumscription councils of the last Municipality of the outskirts of the kingdom. Therefore, at the time when you gave permission to subdue those four amendments, all you had to do was tell the offices to go back to those four amendments that were tabled. It would take a minute and not hours: one minute, President! Anyway, I've made two requests that you haven't officially answered. I have requested the convening of a conference of group leaders, and you have not yet answered me, and the reopening of the time limits for tabling amendments. I have asked for the reopening of the terms for the simple reason that we have not been put in a position to work. I do not know the other Groups: I do not know whether the other Groups are interested or whether they would be active. We would have activated ourselves and presented our sub-amendments. The moment you don't let it work, it means there's something that doesn't work. And then I ask the referee - you are the referee at this time, as he was during the examination of constitutional reforms - to be impartial at least this time. I would stress this: at least this time. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and the Senators De Pin and Gambaro]] I would ask you to reopen the terms, even one hour, Mr President, in order to allow my Group to analyse the amendments and present the sub-amendments. I repeat, at least an hour. Otherwise, Mr President, I do not threaten anyone - I do not give a damn, because it is not my style - but we will decide what to do as a parliamentary group. I know you won't give a damn in a minute, but I say it to my fellow group leaders: we'll decide what to do in a minute. [[Applause from the LN-AUT Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u43	Look, as for the fact that I don't care anymore, I won't allow you to say it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I absolutely won't let you do that, because I'm here and I put my face on today... [[Senator Castaldi's comments.]] I'm responding if you have the patience to listen. If I'm here today, it's just to take on all the responsibilities. [[Comments of Senator Candiani]] You will know - I think you will - that all the secretariats of the groups have been warned. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I do not think it is delicate to mention the name of the official of your group who has been notified. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). There was no one there. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You yourself said you were warned by Senator De Petris after, but not after 11:00. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Later! CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Later! Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). The President of the Group is advised! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So, there was also the possibility. I don't want to start a debate on this. However, in view of all this and also of the assessments made, I believe that I will give an hour, starting now, to present sub-amendments. FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Two hours! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll give you an hour, starting right now. It's 10:40. This is what I decide, just so that there is no doubt about the correctness of the offices above all, that they have notified everyone. I continue to insist that the official of your Group should assume responsibility for not having notified the members of the Group. However, I want to overcome all this and give it another chance. [[Comments of Senator Castaldi),]] Not to mention the fact that the sub-amendments presented earlier will be the subject of consideration by the House, regardless of those submitted after 8 p.m. However, this is a much broader speech. Now I think we can move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u45	Again! You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u46	AIROLA (M5S). I'll be very quick. Mr President, I appreciate the efforts you made last night and today. Now, however, I wonder why the second office of the State must also be in such a hurry. Why do offices have to work at night? Why? Why? CARDINALI (PD). Stop! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Because there is a great sense of the institutions on the part of the offices. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). That's not true! Don't tell me that! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There is a great sense of institutions on the part of offices, working at night. AIROLA (M5S). Don't tell me that! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator Airola. AIROLA (M5S). You're right. I simply repeat, after his speech in which he said that he had to adapt to this haste, and I remind the country, that this law, provided that the constitutional reform is approved by the referendum, will enter into force in 2016. That is the central point of the matter. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I said it. MARTON (M5S). Then why are you running? AIROLA (M5S). Shut up, please. The second important thing I want to say is that we will have to start a new debate on the text that we will now really know, and that this debate will have to be suspended, because in any case soon we will be without President of the Republic. And I think we can talk about conventional work, not as important work as the electoral law and constitutional reform being discussed in the House. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u47	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1385, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of a bill of popular initiative and the draft own-initiative law of the Cirielli deputies; Pisicchio; Bersani and others; Francesco Saverio Romano; Best and others; Lenzi; Zampa and Marzano; Zampa and Ghizzoni; Martella; Francesco Sanna; Bobba and others; Giachetti and others; Giorgia Meloni and others; Rigoni and others; Rigoni and others; Nicoletti and others; Martella and others; Vargiu; Burtone and others; Balduzzi and others; Laffranco and others; Vargiu; Toninelli and others; Door and others; Zaccagnini and others; Valiante and others; Lauricella; Michele Bordo; Marco Meloni and others; Di Battista and others, and 1449.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I believe that the delicacy and importance of the parliamentary passage for the adoption of a new electoral law, as a result of the decision of the Constitutional Court No 1 of 2014, which - as everyone will remember - had declared unconstitutional parts of the so-called Porcellum, putting to the legislator - this is an aspect that I would like to stress - in a nutshell two inescapable issues. On the one hand, there is the identification of a level of disproportionality compatible with the Constitution, i.e., more simply, minimum thresholds for the award of the majority prize and barrier thresholds for access to Parliament; in other words, how much representation can be sacrificed on the altar of stability of government majorities in compliance with the Constitution itself. On the other hand, however, there is the necessary identification of candidates by voters, the so-called theme of long blocked lists, rightly declared unconstitutional. Without prejudice to the need to seek as broad a line as possible in order to approve the new electoral law, it is equally useful and important - I believe - that the invitation of the President emeritus of the Constitutional Court Gaetano Azzariti (an invitation he made during his hearing in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs) be received so that - I quote his words - he may discuss himself in Parliament and abandon his final tones. In fact, the political class - I believe that there must be this awareness in all of us - cannot afford to run into error again. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I would ask you not to have the huts.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u49	Senator Crimes, please, if there are any meetings to be held...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u50	[[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Montevecchi (M5S). Shame on you! CRIMI (M5S). We have to work! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I see cabins while Senator Fornaro is talking. They don't turn their backs on who's talking. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Montevecchi (M5S). You don't get on the hill anyway! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is a matter of respect for those who speak. Please, Senator Fornaro. Mr Fornaro (PD). I believe and believe I demonstrated it yesterday... CRIME (M5S). Out of respect for Senator Fornaro, Mr President, you should let us work and give us an hour's suspension. We cannot listen to Senator Fornaro and at the same time work on sub-amendments. We should all leave, and he would remain alone in this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can subtle this work. We don't do useless business. SANTANGELO (M5S). Where are you getting at? BLUNDO (M5S). Who are you talking to? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Blondo. Come on, Senator Fornaro, we'll listen to you. Mr Fornaro (PD). Luckily there are the Reports! As is well known, the electoral law (the so-called Italicum) approved in the Chamber in the spring (threshold for the 37 percent majority prize, ballot with up to 52 percent of the seats, threshold for the parties out of coalition of 8 percent and 4.5% inside the coalitions, 100 colleges with blocked capolist and the remaining selected with preferences) was subsequently and largely exceeded by agreements between the governing parties and with Forza Italia. Agreements that now find - I believe - a partial translation into the amendments to the text, but above all they will have to find the full sharing of the contractors in this House with the unknowns, for example, of the list or coalition prize. With regard to the proposed new solutions, the raising of the threshold for the majority prize to 40% (with the awarding of 55% of seats to the winner instead of 52) and the lowering of the threshold to 3% are significant improvements, even compared to the Court's mentioned judgment. However, some issues of significant political and constitutional importance remain open - and it must be stressed - and we hope that this House will also be able to listen to them. The introduction of the blocked capilists instead of the so deprecated and deprecable blocked lists does not represent a satisfactory solution, first of all - and I would like to stress this - to the questions of constitutionality raised by the Court, and also poses serious doubts from the political and institutional point of view. As the system is designed, in fact, it is not possible to determine at the start the number of elected parties indicated and therefore removed from the judgment of voters (so-called appointed). A serious limit that risks leading to a new censure of the Court, with good peace of the majority agreements and the so-called Nazarene pact 2.0. I tried to work out a simulation, taking as the basis the latest polls. Well, the result is clear: 375 would be the capilists blocked, and then appointed, equal to about 62%, and 243 elected with preferences in the 100 colleges. In fact, while the winning list certainly elects, in addition to the 100 capilists, the other 240 through the selection of citizens with preferences (with an acceptable incidence of nominations of about 29 per cent), on the minority side that divide the remaining 277 seats, in order to be able to elect a Member with preferences you have to get a percentage of about 20%, that is, a number of Members over 100; under this level only the capilists are elected. In other words, it would be an unacceptable dependence on the will of the party leader and a violation of the general principle of equality between candidates on the same list (which would see living together a blocked leader and other candidates subject to the judgment of preferences), as well as a violation of the principle of reasonableness due to the non-definition of the relationship between elected, or appointed, and elected by citizens with preferences. If you get to the belief that it can be physiological, and therefore acceptable in democracy, a quota of elected people who are chosen directly by the parties, then - I repeat - there can be alternative solutions to the model of blocked capilists. In other words, there would be the possibility - without distorting the system of Italicum - of making this requirement compatible, with that - just as important - of bringing as close as possible the chosen to the elector (a useful weapon against the rampant abstentionism). In a constructive spirit, and on the substance of the matter, as we do, I would like to try to propose a possible solution in this House which I have already presented in the course of the Commission's work. In a nutshell, the model could be to divide the national territory into 26 districts, to which they are assigned, obviously on the basis of the population living at the last census: 155 seats to be allocated on lists of multi-named circumscriptions blocked, equal to 25% of the total; 463 seats (of which one in Valle D'Aosta) to be allocated by dividing the circumscriptions into multi-named colleges with preferences (with lists with mandatory three candidates with both genders or four candidates with two men and two women). The voter would then express his vote only on the ballot for multi-name colleges, voting on the symbol of the chosen party, with the possibility of giving a preference (or two, with mandatory indication of both genders). I would stress that this solution would also avoid the problem of a reasonable number of multiple candidates, because this possibility could only be limited to circumscription lists blocked (and not to colleges), whereas the proposed hypothesis of 10 multi-candidate colleges would be a real expropriation of the right of choice of the voter of his representative in Parliament, especially for the smaller parties, besides - I stress this forcefully - the possible violation of the principle of equality of voting at the entrance, or the same value at the time of the vote: those voting a small party would have almost mathematical certainty that its preference vote would not be absolutely useful for the determination of the elected of its party. Finally, it does not convince the size of the colleges, i.e. their number: the hypothesis still, I think, confirmed the amendments tabled last night by the 100 colleges against the 475 of the Mattarellum, or about 600,000 inhabitants against 125,000. An excessive dimension that would make the positive foundation of the system of colleges disappear, that is, the full recognition of candidates by the elector requested by the Constitutional Court and, above all, would lead to the risk of excessive spending in the electoral campaign, which is a non-negligible component of the causes of the high rate of corruption in Italian public life. Ultimately, with a mixed model (conclusional blocked siltini and plurinomial colleges) several benefits would be obtained: a physiologically acceptable number in a democracy of so-called nominated (25 per cent); the reduced and uniform size of the colleges (125-130.000 inhabitants about the 600,000 of the 100 colleges of Italicum), combined with lists of short candidates, which would allow the full recognition of candidates; a cost of electoral campaigns within the reach of all competitors limiting the risks of polling of the vote; the possibility of a healthy competition within the list of colleges (currents and territories), with incentives for gender representation with double preference. To insist stubbornly on the blocked capillists, on the other hand, there is a serious risk of once again fighting against the iceberg of the Constitutional Court and the Italian Constitution and wasting a great opportunity: that of approving a widely shared electoral law and therefore destined to last over time. We are not very far from this objective - I address myself to the Undersecretary Pizzetti, who I know is attentive and involved in this phase - but to reach it we still need to address and resolve the issue of blocked capilists, the size of colleges and multi-candidates. There is still time, Undersecretary Pizzetti, before taking steps in the direction of a halved Porcellum. Certainly not simple matters, but even impossible if we want to prevail in the parliamentary debate not particular interests of partisan - albeit legitimate - and we will all work to build - I also address colleagues of opposition, of the 5 Star Movement and of the League - a field of play with shared rules to give full implementation to the democracy of alternation. If instead the temptation to transport political agreements will simply prevail, denying the right-duty of senators to enter into the substance of the electoral law in order to try to improve it, then it must be clear that, for many of us, the sacred and democratic respect of the Italian Constitution and the commitments made before the voters in 2013 could prevail over other assessments on the topic of the capilists and blocked lists. I am confident that in the end common sense and respect for the regulations and parliamentary dialectic will prevail. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u51	Colleagues, I must leave the Chamber because the Secretary-General of the Quirinale must give me a communication. I therefore suspend the sitting until 11.40 a.m., the deadline for tabling amendments. You can then resume your work. I say to you that, from an emotional point of view, I will miss the House. I know someone might say, "We're not going to miss you," but I'm gonna put this on the table. I still hope to be back soon. [[Applause from the PD and SCP Groups]] . (The sitting was suspended at 10.58 a.m. and resumed at 11.44 a.m.) Let's resume our work. She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u52	Thank you, Madam President. The elections give power to citizens, not party secretaries. In order to restore Parliament's authority, it is necessary first of all to abolish the Porcellum, the current electoral law which allows the nomination of parliamentarians by the secretariats of the parties. At a historical-political moment marked in Italy and in Europe by conservative and elitist pushes these words, Madam President and colleagues (please listen), seem almost to have been uttered by the worst revolutionaries and heretics and seem to reveal a position that the President of the Republic, Giorgio Napolitano, would not hesitate to define eversive. Too bad, however, that these words were announced (and never term was more fitting for Mr. Renzi) by him in the 100 points for Italy in November 2012 during the race to the primaries of the center-left. In those same days the Premier hastened to respond to Silvio Berlusconi's open doors, chirping him not to be bought, to be cold and to close the doors opened then a year later for the famous Covenant of the Nazzareno, an agreement that would have concerned the electoral law, colleagues, the electoral law and foreseen the transition from the perfect bicameralism wanted by the constituent Fathers to monocameralism through the fake abolition of the Senate. And that is what we have been witnessing in this House not only today, but for days. Renzi therefore, at least initially, was against the Porcellum and, being also pending an appeal before the Constitutional Court, declared, more for political opportunities than for principles and real beliefs, all his contempt for an electoral system based on blocked lists. In January 2014, the Constitutional Court then officially declared the unconstitutionality of the Porcellum by pointing the finger on the majority prize, defined as a forerunner of excessive over-representation and an objective and serious alteration of democratic representation, and on blocked lists, capable - according to the Court itself - of altering the relationship of representation between voters and elected and of co-arting the freedom of voters in the election of their representatives. In my teaching profession, I'm used to doing a bit of a chronicle of what happens and trying to put together the various pieces. Remembering these passages, therefore, is a necessary exercise of memory because it also helps us not to forget a not negligible detail: all of us, colleagues, have been appointed senators thanks to an unconstitutional law that has cast and degraded the sacred right of the Italian people to freely choose their representatives, as is done in every authentic and mature democracy. Here today it has been well demonstrated that this Government is acting in total contempt of the Senate's Rules of Procedure without guaranteeing even the authentic and mature parliamentary democracy. An anti-democratic drift that Mr Renzi has decided to feed precisely with Italicum, a literal system that we have been forced to know in its evolution up to now through the newspapers, the journalistic news since the text for us is a ghost text. A text that continues to guarantee the party secretaries the presence in Parliament of their faithful and to perpetuate it, in the name of the governability of the country. I would like to focus on this term very similar to the term "governance." Both are the opposite of democratic participation and we are well taught by great professionals who have analyzed its nature and origin. Well, in essence, by making the Italicum rest on the election blocked, that is decided by the parties, of a third of the members of the future Chamber of Deputies, and reassigning the choice of the remaining two thirds to the system of preferences and proposing that prize of majority strongly stigmatized by the Consulta, on the occasion of the judgment on the Porcellum, and by the same Mr Renzi, instead, he continues to make his Government travel on the tracks of the unconstitutionality, as happened with the jobs act, unblocks Italy, the decree competitiveness, the decree ILVA, not to mention the last law of stability approved in the Senate, with some parts left blank and with errors - mistakes! - which have been reported by oppositions and then corrected. Now, in order not to deny it, even in the new year we continue with the electoral law. It is clear that an electoral law of this type and the simultaneous prediction of a second level electoral system for the Senate, following the example of what has already happened for the Provinces, prevent citizens from affecting decision-making processes, making the institutions even more inaccessible. On the other hand, what should have been expected after a Nazarene pact, signed by a Premier who does not lack the opportunity to express his insufferance towards Parliament and by a former Premier, Berlusconi - Card P2 n. 1816 - who has never been a champion of democracy? I believe that all the investigations on the State-Mafia negotiation, although not yet defined, have been well illustrated in the documentary film "The negotiation" which brings to light documents and does nothing but put together the pieces of a puzzle very broken, but very harmful for Italy. The spaces and opportunities for citizens' political participation are increasingly shrinking. PD and Forza Italia are not only definitively sinking the country, but also trying to recreate that bipolar and even biparty system, which would allow them to privatise and bend even more institutions to the interest of the few (or perhaps of What ours?). Is that how you reform the country? Instead, do not think that the change that our country needs must be based on greater transparency and democracy. These are objectives that the 5 Star Movement and its undersigned have been pursuing for years, both in the squares, in the local territories, and here in Parliament, with the constitutional bill "Norman zero initiative and more democracy," at my first signature, which I have presented on behalf of the whole Group and above all on behalf of 250,000 citizens, who have signed it. This bill is now in the House of Deputies: there is an attempt on the part of our colleagues to make you reason and return to the dimension of democracy and transparency. Well, this proposal and the popular initiative, which also contained other indications, called "Clean Parliament," you collected it at your convenience and for your use, only as a screen of the bill you are carrying out. In 2007, we collected 350 000 signatures to free Parliament from the condemned in a final way, to introduce the limit of the two mandates and to re-insert preferences in the voting system, but this address, clearly expressed by the citizens, has had no value for you, confirming once again that the laws of popular initiative are still a nuisance for Parliament, probably because the negotiation has not yet ended. One of the key principles of bill No 702 is precisely to assign a decisive role to the instruments of direct democracy present in our Constitution, through the introduction of the confirmation referendum that would allow citizens, if they consider it necessary, to express themselves on the effective entry into force of the approved laws. The recognition of equal parliamentary dignity to the laws of popular initiative and the provision, no less important, of the principle of the withdrawal of elected citizens would allow voters to distrust and replace the elected representative at any time of the term of office if they do not comply with the commitments made with the voters. This is respect for popular sovereignty in a democracy and in a real Republic. During the Senate examination of the constitutional reform we had tried to incorporate these proposals but there was absolutely no real implementation and real recognition, or a subscription to what was the will of the citizens: there was not, nor is there even what we are continuing to carry out today, nor in the role of President Grasso of having to respect at least the representation in Parliament of citizens, such as minorities and oppositions. If Renzi, in recent weeks, has changed its position on electoral law several times, instead, our path has distinguished itself, also on this issue, for the quality of coherence, honesty and transparency, the only values that have constantly inspired our political action in and outside these institutions in recent years. We have consulted the activists online, as is our custom, producing our electoral law, the Democratlum, the fruit of collective intelligence and direct participation of citizens, and not of the usual sub-ban agreements that you, and only you, are able squalidly to sign in the secret rooms. Our electoral law is directly intended by the citizens, designed to safeguard the rights of the elector and representativeness, not party interests. It is proportional, in the sense that each political force is allocated a number of seats according to the percentage of votes obtained. In addition, it is based on intermediate colleges and, contrary to what Mr Renzi has proposed, there is no provision for the capilists to prevent the election in Parliament of "competible" candidates. Therefore, all would be elected through the system of single preference. This is a very important step which, if implemented, would contribute at least from a formal point of view to restoring the freedom of vote enshrined in Article 48 of our Constitution. However, we cannot help but look at the substance of the problem: freedom of vote does not exist in Italy, ladies and gentlemen, because freedom from needs does not exist. This makes us understand how difficult it is to achieve today that change that, according to the late judge Paolo Borsellino, could and should courageously put in place in the electoral booth with the pencil in his hand. The surveys and scandals we read daily in the newspapers - in addition to what we had to read about what Mr. Renzi was deciding - testify to the inability of traditional parties to give up links with the mafias, the 'ndrangheta and ours, and other criminal organizations increasingly characterized by an extraordinary ability to direct votes on some candidates rather than others, promising poor incomes to those who lack them. The difficulty and, in many cases, also the impossibility, for various reasons, to emerge autonomously from poverty and economic hardship oblige the citizen to accept a stinking compromise and to move in the links of a power that, in exchange for survival, demands his freedom and feeds on it. We should take care of this and Mr Renzi should also take care of it, but, following the thread of the parliamentary term, this House is also hostage to the whims of the President-in-Office of the Council today. We have said this well with speeches made during the night, with nocturnal deadlines, communicated at night, and then with the content of an hour for our sub-amendments and amendments: a young vanesio is this President, who obliges us once again to discuss something that only he considers priority and urgent. There are many others, ladies and gentlemen, the country's emergencies: unemployment, which is now close to 14%, and especially youth, which stands at 44%; aid for small and medium-sized enterprises; a fairer tax system; the strengthening of a serious fight against evasion; a concrete relaunch - not only with fine words - of school, university, research; the introduction of citizenship income, our battlehorse, whose bill has already been scheduled, before the Christmas break, in the Commission, where it is still under discussion. Faced with the negative economic situation that our country is experiencing and the crisis of small and medium-sized enterprises, unable to invest and create work, because they do not have the opportunity - because of the tax pressure, to which Mr Renzi was putting his hand, but then took a step back - the urgency is to carry out tax reform without content. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. BLUNDO (M5S). I will conclude, Madam President, that all this must be done so that our young people do not continue to carry their intelligences abroad, as is already the case (only in England there are 650,000 young Italians). You believe that, by sending the intelligences abroad, here there is not the ability to notice the games, tricks and magicians of the current politics, but it is not so, because the intelligence they all have. I seriously urge you to draw up a draft electoral law that takes into account all the amendments that have rightly been tabled here in Parliament by the oppositions and the 5 Star Movement, which represents the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u53	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cucchetti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to warn you that, like other PD colleagues, I intend to use regulatory time. This general debate on the reform of the electoral law takes place at a very delicate political stage, in which the weight of the government has increased enormously. It has increased both because of the gradual weakening of the Presidency of the Republic, which I hope is temporary, and because of the increasing strengthening of the Presidency of the Council in the decision-making process within the Commission and in its relationship with Parliament, as we have seen in recent days in the writing of the tax decree and as we see today in the short circuit between majority and opposition on the amendments to Italicum finally resolved by President Grasso. The Quirinale, therefore, became weaker as President Napolitano showed the decision to interrupt the mandate at the end of the Italian semester in Europe. Having in mind a term, which was at some point indicated to the public, has led to a situation comparable to the White Semester, which precedes the natural expiry of the presidential term. In fact, for a few months the Quirinale was no longer able to manage a possible crisis of government and possibly to dissolve the Chambers, just as such option occupied and occupies a central position in the political struggle and enters into the same new electoral law through the so-called safeguard clause. Now at Colle we will have a regency for the expected time and then, after having thanked Giorgio Napolitano of all heart for the service rendered to the country, we will have a new President, who I hope will be elected as soon as possible so that Italy has not only an referee and a notary of the political game, but also a guardian and a defender of the Constitution, not only able to better manage its powers within the country, but also able to represent it abroad, in agreement with the Government, in an active and positive way. I'm coming to the government now. In this same period of weakening the Quirinale, until the very day before yesterday, the Government and its President in particular tend to concentrate in their hands the legislative initiative that should belong to Parliament, especially in matters such as those we are dealing with these days. It is a trend that manifests itself in the whole of the legislative activity in four main ways: the use of decree-laws, mostly omnibus decrees, as an ordinary instrument of legislation; the increasingly frequent recourse to the vote of confidence; the use of delegated laws with very broad links; the reduction of the rate of accountability of the Executive, which does not give the Parliament an account of a whole series of its own acts, from the tax decree to the appointments in state-owned companies and public bodies as - I remember one for all - that of the director of the National Inspectorate for Nuclear Safety and Radiation Protection (ISIN), the authority of nuclear, which has been stationary for weeks. The government is rampant, therefore, and where, although rampant, it struggles to be effective, fatigue due to the inability of the Ministers to direct the high bureaucracies, which cannot be compensated by the trusted team of Palazzo Chigi. This difficulty, which I would say professional, hinders more of the action of the oppositions, one of which has chosen, at least in its hitherto majority component, to associate with the majority, to be - to use the jargon of finance - a minority associated with control, that is, the opposition of its majesty. What is in place is the genetic mutation of parliamentary democracy into strong premiered. It is a genetic mutation that is not declared and, therefore, not subject to parliamentary scrutiny, but is made de facto and now crystallized in the combined arrangement of constitutional reform and electoral law through the determining numbers determined by Porcellum. It is a mutation that subjects everything to the need for governability and does it as if it were an extraordinary turning point when, instead, governability is spoken from the early eighties, since Bettino Craxi posed the problem, then yes in a revolutionary way, so to speak. It does so as if the government's power had not overshadowed that of the nineteenth century political parties already in the nineties, to arrive today with the affirmation of the leaders' parties and, alternatively, with the not infrequent transfer of sovereignty to the technicians. It beats and rebukes the key of governability. One insists on this discourse on the method without a new Descartes, believing that it can solve, in itself, the great issues of the country: the growth that is not there, the mass unemployment, the welfare system to be reviewed without chasing the old anglicizing recipes. In its legislative initiative, the Government follows the artichoke policy: it keeps separate the leaf of the electoral law and the leaf of constitutional reform. Trying to minimize the parliamentary debate, the government urges all of us to do quickly because - it says - the markets would not tolerate any length of time from a country with more than 2,000 billion public debt. In fact, at the moment - fortunately - the Italian public debt pays minimum interest, tangible sign of the confidence of the markets in the solvency of the company Italy. These low rates - the spread with German bunds is at the very least historic - are due to the initiatives of the European Central Bank and certainly not - ahinoi - to the fundamentals of the Italian economy, which remain disappointing and worrying. The markets are expecting growth from us. In the meantime, electoral and constitutional reforms are of interest as they lay down the rules of our home game (which we must deal with ourselves), but it is to growth that they look at the markets. More than the speech on the method, they concern the project and economic policy action in a context that begins to be very favourable thanks to the appreciation of the dollar over the euro and the fall in the price of oil and other raw materials in general. In this context, I wonder what is the point of directing all our forces and intelligences on the project of concentrating, even formally, power in the hands of one person: a person who, in fact, already has much of it, as can be seen from his own language, based more often on the self than on us. If the artichoke policy succeeds, Italy will have only one Chamber, with the winning party awarded with 15% more seats, and MPs chosen by a large majority - I subscribe to the exercise of prediction made by my colleague Fornaro - from the offices of the leader of the party. This House will vote for the government and, with the support of a Senate with a few great voters (in addition to the expression of the Regions dominated by the same party, that is its leader), will elect the President of the Republic and the lay members of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Council of the judiciary. What an extraordinary concentration of power in the hands of the leader-premier of the winning party! What a reversal of the institutional balances and guarantees that the Constitution has provided for! Someone will say - and I will conclude - that every five years we vote and that the vote represents the highest form of accountability in democracy. In the abstract, that's true, but the devil is hiding in the details. In particular, two details undermine the possibility of alternation with normal modalities to the outcome of normal periods, which is the alternation that is good for countries (healthy and physiological). First of all: power wears down those who do not have it. It is an old joke by Andreotti, which is all the more true if I add: the concentrated power wears out even more those who do not have it. The crisis of leadership of the center-right, which was the first political aggregate based on a strong personalization of leadership (I say it as an observer, with respect and without any animosity) is here to testify. Let me turn to the second detail: if the information industry (which is the industry that determines the formation of public opinion) is weak and if the information masters have interests linked in various ways to politics (and therefore, mainly, to the action of the government), the government itself, where all that power is concentrated, as we have seen, still takes advantage in subsequent electoral competitions. If we wanted to adapt the title of a masterpiece by a great economist and a great Italian like Piero Sraffa to the narration of our current story, we should say that we are building power production by means of power. For this reason, I believe that the fundamental issue in this electoral law has not yet been resolved. It is good to raise to 40 percent the threshold beyond which the majority prize is taken without resorting to the ballot; excellent, if you remain under that threshold, the use of the ballot. But attributing the prize to the party in which the leader's predominance is exercised in sometimes almost military forms, which forms lists without the possibility of giving a worthy citizenship to dissent, this does not. This does not update and reform the Constitution; this hurts you. For this reason, while leaving it to the leaders to appoint a certain number, not huge, but not negligible, of experienced parliamentarians, I think it is necessary to modify the Italicum, in order to give the voters the right to choose, eliminating blocked capilists and multiple nominations and introducing - this would be my preferred choice - the single colleges or, if this solution proves to be unworkable, a reasonable number of MPs chosen with the preferred vote. [[Applause from the PD groups, Misto-SEL, Misto-MovX and Senators Bignami, De Pin and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u55	We welcome the students of the Istituto comprentico Statale (Socrate-Mallardo) of Marano di Napoli, who are today visiting the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u56	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u57	Madam President, Senators, Senators, I would not have liked to have spoken this morning in this debate. I have decided to do so only after I have read the amendment tabled by the group leaders of certain parties present in this House. I have also decided to do so as a result of the Presidency's determinations to set a deadline for sub-amendments to the maxi amendment tabled by the group leaders. Why do I speak? Because I remind myself and all of you that the democracy of a nation is based on two central pillars, the electoral law and its rigorous and timely application, and on many further beams, which organize the democratic structure of a nation and which are made up of all the rules governing the operation of the two branches of Parliament. Well, these beams have already been seriously compromised in the past. Again this morning, with the determination to set a deadline for sub-amendments to an amendment by the Leaders, a solution has been found that violates the rules of the Senate's Rules of Procedure. As far as I am concerned, the sub-amendments are presented to the government's amendments, not to the amendments that subscribe four or five authoritative colleagues, even though the leaders of their respective political forces. I am speaking essentially of the provision which provides, in this major amendment and in these amendments, for paragraph 23-a, i.e. the so-called safeguard clause. I believe that the term safeguard clause is correct, the problem is to understand who must safeguard: whether the Italian citizens (who would have the title to be protected), the individual members of the two branches of Parliament or rather the President of the Council of Ministers (who has a prime interest: to leave the room to decide, when he considers it more appropriate, to bring the Italians to the vote for the renewal of Parliament). Well, as a modest operator of law, I read this provision with a completely unusual, unusual formulation, really so far away from those that are the standards techniques that are now customary and that use all the experts in the field. Therefore, while I am adapting to this wrong practice, which does not comply with the rules of our Rules of Procedure, I have tabled a sub-amendment, trying to correct this wording, which in my view is incorrect. The amendment of the group leaders to paragraph 23-a reads as follows: The provisions of this Article shall apply from 1 July 2016. What does that mean? Why is this literal formula applied and it is not said very clearly, as with all transitional rules, that the law will enter into force on 1 July 2016? Why use an unusual literal formulation? Well, I think there is reason. There were those who thought it was ignorance of regulatory technique by those who drafted the amendment. I don't think it's ignorance of regulatory technique [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] I believe, rather, that we want to adopt the law of reform of the way Parliament is elected and to include this date from the point of view of its application, which, if necessary, can always be changed at any time, apart from the constitutional rigour which provides, precisely, that the amendment of the electoral law must be carried out only by ordinary law and not by different regulatory instruments. If so, I have no problem seeing the Chambers loose in three, four or six months, but I need to be respected by those in this House who say they are convinced. I am not Letta who is serene because they are told to be serene [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Bignami and De Pin]] and after three days he is sent home. I am not Letta; I do not have his stature, but I have the strength to be able to say: whoever you are, you must treat me with respect. If, then, it is true and serious that we intend to ensure that Parliament can be dissolved not before 2016, I wonder why the wording that I have proposed, the classic one, the usual one, the one that we find in all the legislative texts with regard to transitional rules, should not be accepted. 12.25 a.m. (Falanga followed). Now there is the little game, Madam President and gentlemen of the Presidency, to vote before or after that amendment to make the other one lapse. Here I appeal to the Presidency to ensure, as its duty, democracy and the smooth functioning of the work of this House. I have already raised the question: if the Capigroup amendment is put to the vote, it is clear that the first-signed amendment by myself could be declared to be either absorbed or in any case inadmissible. There has already been a violation of a rule of our Rules of Procedure, allowing an amendment tabled by four or five senators, who had to enter into all the amendments, to be given an early path (and then allowing all other senators to submit sub-amendments). My amendment, which provides for the law in its entirety to enter into force on 1 July 2016, therefore does not change its content, the substance is the same. If the understanding of the majority to postdate the application and entry into force of these rules in 2016 is serious, I do not see why the classic formula of the entry into force of the law should not be used and the ambiguous expression should be used instead: the provisions of this Chapter shall apply. If there is good faith, it will emerge then this morning and give itself the green light to this sub-amendment of mine. If there is bad faith, I understood it and I have no problems, the Chambers can be dissolved the day after tomorrow, but ours is a country in which rather than guaranteeing a government and a normal functioning of our system, in the light of the most elementary rules of democracy, has given life to a clown to whom I, to remember a scalfarian expression, do not belong. Madam President, I would like to renew my call for the sub-amendments to be voted on first and then, if necessary, the amendment tabled by the Group leaders with joint signature. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senators Mussini and De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Republic sent the following letter: "Rome, 14 January 2015 Honourable President, I announce that today I resigned from the office of President of the Republic, which I assumed on 22 April 2013. I'll give you a copy of the resignation I signed. With the senses of my high consideration. F. to Giorgio Napolitano/F. to Giorgio Napolitano/F. to Giorgio [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Reading of the Act of Resignation: Today I resign from the office of President of the Republic, which I assumed on 22 April 2013. From the Quirinale Palace, 14 January 2015. F. to Giorgio Napolitano/F. to Giorgio Napolitano/F. to Giorgio With effect from the act of resignation, Mr Giorgio Napolitano, having ceased his office as President of the Republic, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 59 of the Constitution, entered the Senate as a senator of law and life. [[Extended applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups]] , SCPI and Senators Bignami and Di Maggio) I believe that President Napolitano, the ruling class and the citizens owe great respect and gratitude because he has exercised his role by pursuing the necessary and not always easy balances between Parliament and the governments that have succeeded in the years of his Presidency and he has done so in a very complex period throughout our country, struggling on the one hand with a deep economic crisis that has lasted for years and, on the other, with the rise of anti-politics. I believe that the core of its political heritage is in the strong references to social cohesion, national unity and the pro-European spirit, without which it will be impossible to bring our country to a successful path of institutional reforms and of mature democratic dialectic. For this I would like to thank, on behalf of myself and of the whole Senate, President Napolitano for these nine years of commitment that have seen him honour, as provided for in the Constitution, the office of President of the Republic, and I hope that the Chambers in common sitting may elect, soon and well, the new President of the Republic. [[Numerous senators stand up. Extended applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups]] , SCPI and Senators Bignami and Di Maggio).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u59	I inform you that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 86 of the Constitution, the functions of President of the Republic have been assumed by the President of the Senate, Pietro Grasso, to whom we wish good work. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] , SCPI and Senator Di Maggio)).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u60	I have received the following letter: In relation to the appointment of President of the Republic, pursuant to the first paragraph of Rule 86 of the Constitution, following the resignation resigned by the Head of State, Giorgio Napolitano, on 14 January 2015, you will be acting as President of the Senate for the duration of the supplement, pursuant to Rule 9 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, and in accordance with the designation made on 28 March 2013. I welcome the opportunity to send you my most cordial greetings. F.to Pietro Grasso [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u61	Let's resume our work. He's enlisted to speak Senator Chiti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u62	Madam President, I do not return to the issues raised in the previous speech so that I can devote myself to the substance of the law. However, I would like to reiterate here, in conjunction with your words, my thanks for the work of President Napolitano. Behind us there are nine difficult years, in which Giorgio Napolitano - one can share or not the one or the other act of his functions, and this applies to all - has undoubtedly expressed a deep sense of duty and commitment to the institutions and our country. I am now focusing on some issues of merit in the electoral law. I agree with colleagues who have already raised the issue that we are faced with one of the main mandates that Parliament must address. The country gave it to us, the citizens gave it to us, expressing a disaffection against an electoral law that had presented lists in bulk since 2006 against which there could not be a relationship between electoral citizens and candidate citizens, then elected; and the Constitutional Court has also strongly indicated this to us by giving a mandate to Parliament in this regard. We must address the reflection on the electoral law on the basis of an overall vision that takes into account the constitutional reform, which is now being discussed in the House and launched by this branch of Parliament at first reading. We have chosen not only to overcome the bicameralism of equality, on which we all agree, but we have done so - and I personally did not agree on this, but in democracy we have taken note of the decisions - by means of a model of second-degree elections in the Senate, which is not the one in France and Germany, but by means of new ways elsewhere, that is, made up of mayors and regional advisers. We must bear this in mind in our reflection on the electoral law. If I could choose the system that I think best suited to Italy (but in reality this is the position that my party, the only one it had taken), I would have no doubt about a dual-round majority system of college. However, electoral laws are not made by themselves; majorities, on the contrary, must commit themselves to involving oppositions and on this road it does not seem that it is possible, it has not been possible to proceed. What we are discussing today, about the so-called Italicum, I would also like to point out some aspects of positive change compared to the text approved in the House, also because they show that changing for the best is possible, it was possible and it would be possible. I, for example, consider a step forward in the approach decided in the majority and accepted, albeit with some distinction, by Forza Italia of a single threshold of barrier to 3%, instead of three different thresholds (at 4.5 for parties within a coalition, at 8% for parties outside a coalition, at 12% for coalitions). I consider this to be a positive step forward in ensuring representation. If, in fact, we hold millions of votes (and therefore millions of citizens) outside the institutions, those who want to oppose must necessarily or inevitably do so against the institutions; instead, we have the interest, democracy has interest, that those who oppose can do so not against but within the institutions. I also consider it a step forward to have set 40% of the votes, rather than 37%, the threshold that a list must reach in order to win 15% of the seats of the majority prize, because it guarantees governability and I also believe that 40% can be considered a significant consensus for a list. I think it is also right - this was already foreseen in the House, even with another percentage of barrier - that in case you do not exceed 40%, there is a second round of balloting. I repeat, these are two steps forward for me. Are they satisfying? Could it have been done more? However, these are two steps forward and show that the remarks, the criticisms, the demands are not inevitably excuses, acts of disturbance, the actions to prevent them; they are contributions that improve a project and that is Parliament's task. On electoral laws and constitutional reforms, in fact, the primary role is the parliaments, not the governments, whatever they may be, not even those we like most if we are in the majority. Not understanding or not fully defending this aspect is not a tactical failure, it would mean distorting or impoverishing representative democracy. That is why we should not do this, but rather that we should not act on this practice. In my opinion, we in Italy are convinced that, in order to make democracy work, in the 21st century we must limit the action of parliaments and think only of giving priority to the action of governments. Not only is it an illusion, but it is a wrong path; it is not the one they follow in the rest of Europe. Democracy is renewed if we know how to enhance the role of Parliaments together, innovating, and that of governments, innovating; in this balance there is that relationship between representation and governance that we must bear in mind. However, the issue on which I will conclude, which I want to focus and which is at the heart of the problem, remains the way to elect Members. I would like to address my party comrades and friends here, not only to all the senators: this is not a treat, it is not a detail for which we can say that if on two points we have taken a step forward and on one no and we do not succeed and therefore it will mean that we will close two to one. It's not that. This is not an affair, the node of the election of Members is one of the hearts of the problem, it is a fundamental aspect, because this node has been placed on us, as I said, both by citizens (being the so-called Porcellum law was one of the causes of the further deterioration of the relationship of trust between citizens and institutions) and by the Constitutional Court itself. So that is something to think about. You can't say, in this case: patience, you can't change it, tiremm innanz! Also because, ladies and gentlemen, the Provinces are still there but are no longer elected by the citizens. In this respect, I think it would be appropriate for the Government and Parliament to go to the bottom of what is happening in the Provinces, because they no longer have a physiognomy or more fully defined their functions, and this not only, but also for the responsibilities of the Regions, who have not redesigned the competences and therefore used the staff. The Provinces are in a situation that can worsen at local level the relationship of the institutions with the citizens, the same keeping of the municipalities and their aggregation. I have no objection to what Senator Cociancich said yesterday, but I too think that the political forces, in a transparent way, can and must assume the responsibility of indicating to the vote men and women and also, among them, those who consider essential for political-parliamentary and government action. If I have a regret in this Parliament, it is not because of the battles that I have waged, it is because of those that I have not fought, and among them, it is very important to me that I did not oppose the abolition of the public funding of the parties. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Uras]] We are the only country in Europe where there is no such funding. By not publicly financing politics, controlling it strictly and harshly, we risk killing the parties or entrusting them to private associations, to the legacy of those who have more, giving life to a democracy for the rich or for those who are wrong. I regret this, no more. If we want to ensure a balance between the responsibility of the parties to indicate some candidates that serve for parliamentary and government action and the exercise by the citizens of sovereignty, for which we choose and participate in the choices of those who represent us, there are two main avenues that cannot be invented: single colleges or preferences. I'm not going back to the technical details. Senator Fornaro said what could be the solutions that hold together more of preferences and some precise indications of people who serve, but that's the point. The technical solutions may be different, but the question to which we must answer and to which, as far as I am concerned, I assume the responsibility to answer is as follows: can we enact a law that tells Italian citizens that the majority of Members will not be directly chosen by them? Can we say that this is negligible if tomorrow 60% of the members of the elected Chamber will not be directly chosen by the citizens, who will only choose a minority of them? A minority, moreover, which, depending on how you choose the capilist (with multiple candidates or not), or how you define the colleges (if larger or smaller), only after the elections you will know if it is 40, 44 or 48 percent. Is this the law that Italy needs? Is this the law that reconstructs a relationship of trust between citizens and institutions? 12.40 a.m.) (Chiti followed). I do not know where the objection is to a solution that would allow us to pass a law for the House knowing with certainty, because it is written in the law, that the majority of Members are elected by the citizens. Where's the objection? Is it Forza Italia who disagrees? Can things be called by their first and last names? I agree with the idea of involving oppositions, those that are available: the Forza Italia Group (which is available), the Lega Nord Group (if available), the Movimento 5 Star Group (if available). I am convinced that involvement must be sought, but can one accept a measure without trying to change it if this handing over to the Italian people an electoral system in which the only elected House, in its majority, will be appointed? You can't get this setting through. It's not a detail. I say this in a heartfelt way: it is not a detail, it is the heart of how this law will be judged and how our democracy will work tomorrow. Let's think about it while we're in time. You see, democracy - as I said when we were discussing constitutional reforms - is challenged in the 21st century; it has not closed its matches against totalitarianism, against those who no longer wanted democracy in the previous century. She's challenged. It is challenged by so many opponents, we see it these days: terrorism, blood. We have seen what a wonderful answer was given in France by French citizens. It is an answer with which it has been affirmed: democracy is ours, of each of us as a citizen; freedom is ours, of each of us as a citizen. That is what we did in Italy during the terrorist attack. There were no subversive laws, laws that restricted freedom, but laws that ensured the defense of the citizens and democratic institutions that focused on the unity of the people, the representatives of the people, the trade unions and political forces to defeat the threat of terrorism. Democracy has been felt as of each of us, freedom has been perceived as a good of each of us. Blood trails, but democracy and freedom are safeguarded. That is the answer, that is what we must do today. It will be this old policy, what can I say? But if in Emilia Romagna we vote for 37% of the citizens in the regional elections. [[Applause from the PD, Misto-SEL and Senators Gaetti, Bignami, De Pin and Mussini]] Can any of you in conscience really believe that the elections in Emilia Romagna are only a local fact? Perhaps it would have been if it had gone from 73 to 65 percent! Getting 43 percent in Calabria is a local fact? Is 3 percent of Italian citizens who say they trust the political system a local fact? The element of participation and involvement is certainly not just the electoral law: it is a fundamental element today more than yesterday and tomorrow more than today. We must consider this to be a central point; one of the aspects to respond and rebuild a relationship of trust is then that the majority of Members are directly chosen by the citizens. For me, I say this immediately with seriousness, with concern but also with responsibility, it is a decisive point because this is the value that I give him for my attitude not on an amendment, but on the whole of the bill because I believe that we cannot afford to send the Italian people a message that says: I note that there is confidence, I do not care that there is participation; I restrict the boundaries of politics and institutions. We need to increase responsibility and participation, and this must also be borne in mind when we compare and vote on the amendments to the electoral bill. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII and Misto-MovX Groups and the Senators Berger and De Pin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u63	Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot escape the duty to speak. I understand very well the practical usefulness of my speech, but not the political one. I am aware, in fact, that the games have already been established in other places other than this, at the home of others. Here you don't play dice but I think - unfortunately - that many play Monopoly. I'm afraid someone's already laid eyes on the Risiko box, and that worries me. I'll say what I see and what I think. We are in a democracy and I have a responsibility to intervene because I represent the opposition and the opposition must warn, it must warn, the opposition must not give alibi to the majority so that tomorrow it cannot say: I did not realize, I did not know. I am standing before you to say "no" to a methodology, "no" to an objective and "no" to a result. I have the duty and responsibility to express my idea and to oppose it. First of all, I oppose the way in which this electoral reform is presented, a law of fundamental importance for our democracy, which we are discussing here without the mandate of the rapporteur. With these modes, we are aware that the best will not win, but the strongest will win. Another way that I think is absolutely wrong is to present the electoral law even before completing the process of reforming the Constitution. How can we change the electoral law by providing for the sole election of the members of the Chamber of Deputies, without first having completed the constitutional reform, which goes to eliminate the perfect bicameralism? Would you order the kitchen before buying the apartment? Renzi, I see you a little confused in the timing, but here you continue to sin presumptuously. The electoral law was supposed to be done a year ago, in your opinion. You look like the Bridge on the Strait: why don't you promise? Then stop saying that you have 40%, because you have taken 40% of about 50% of the voters and, moreover, for another election. This is not information: this is disinformation. Are you really legitimate, even by your conscience? Are you really legitimated by your serenity? Oh yeah, the consciousness, this stranger, who often stops in front of the metal detector at the entrance. Who is the one who uses his power to have more power? Certainly not a Democrat. Not a man who makes dialectic and democracy his strength, but a man who is afraid. How do you plan to produce a democratic law if you're afraid? This is what reigns in these rooms: not wisdom, not discernment, not dialogue, but fear. Not the fear, however, of betraying one's constituents, but the fear of losing your place, your scranno. I am here to say "no" to the objective that guides you in the approval of this electoral law, which is the pervicacious will to keep your scranco. You are affected by "softerosis," which is the degeneration of "poltronite" and is not an expression of democracy, but an expression of chronic selfishness, which goes beyond the simple initial level, purely inflammatory. It acts for the common good only who has nothing to lose and nothing to gain, but feels satisfied by the noble value of carrying out this parliamentary activity, understood as a service. The driving force of all your choices is selfishness, accompanied by the personalism and slave of partyism. The objective of the electoral law should be to give citizens the opportunity to participate in democratic life, by expressing a vote that legitimises their representatives in Parliament. No, it's not. It weighs on the balance sheet the situation of the polls and the opinion of the marketers at the service of the parties, to figure out how to divide the cake of power. Those who are more bullying will eat more. What's the point of sitting on these cracks if you're not legitimized by anyone? None of us is here with a legitimacy that derives from the expression of preferences by voters, the legitimacy conceived and studied by our constituent Fathers. Someone is only surrogates of primary, secondary and quaternary party, but not for a choice of real preference. Do we want to give our successors the strength that comes from being chosen by the citizens? The voters transfer to us a value, which we do not possess today. Today we must be grateful to a symbol, not to a citizen. Today's mandate bond is a false problem. Today there is the bond of the leader, the bond of the party, the bond of the movement, the bond of the lobby and the bond of partition. The concept of representation is a simple and clear one. What motivates you not to apply it? The fear of never coming back here is not a form of democracy. Here goes our Republic; here goes our future; here goes ours. This House must be seen as a womb of democracy. Take back the Senate, senators. Give back value to the citizens' vote. We give them back the desire to choose, the desire to represent and participate, the desire to vote. We reawaken in them the passion for politics. Do not fall into the demonic trap: everything, now and now. We give oxygen to our democracy. Let's get away from the mistakes we've made in the past. Renzi, did you read the Constitutional Court ruling that rejected Porcellum? Do you remember that? You're the referee! The referee said that politics is not a football match. The referee said that the team is not a coach, but the team in the field chooses the fans, the spectators choose it. But the referee said if you win three to two, you can't score two more goals for free. Do you have any idea what institutional trouble you're doing? The Constitutional Court rejected the Porcellum in both points subject to the constitutional scrutiny: that is, the majority prize, considered abnormal, and the presentation of blocked lists because they do not allow the elector to express a preference. In particular, the judges of the Consulta have motivated that the prize of majority previewed in the Porcellum is harbor of an excessive overrepresentation, and can produce a distortion in how much it does not impose the attainment of a minimum threshold of votes on the list and is not effective in order to pursue the objective to assure the stability of the government of the Country. The Constitutional Court has highlighted the limitations of the previous electoral law and you, Renzi, what are you doing? You are reproducing the same mistakes, and in this way you expose all your limitations, but even more your hypocrisy. Wise people are not those who learn from their mistakes but are those who learn from the mistakes they have already made. But you all know, right, what our Premier's goal is? The aim of our Premier is to: calm down and anesthetize the masses by accusing them of growing impoverishment and lack of prospects. He does so by implementing many of the ten strategies well illustrated by sociologist Chomsky. The strategy of distraction, which consists in diverting people's attention from the important problems and changes decided by the political and economic elites. To create problems and then offer solutions: as for public administration reform). In order to accept an unacceptable measure, it is sufficient to apply it gradually, with the dropper, consecutively: here is Article 18. The strategy of differing (to date you should have concluded all the promised reforms), to present an unpopular decision as "painful and necessary," obtaining public acceptance, at the moment, for a future application (it is easier to accept a future sacrifice than an immediate sacrifice), to turn to the masses as well as to children (and this is really easy for you as you address us as well), to use the emotional aspect much more than reflection (what better means than to appear on TV to be passionate with your selfies everywhere?), to keep individuals in ignorance and mediocrity (here you have long-term projects also with the school), to make the individual believe that only he is the culprit of his misfortune, because of his lack of intelligence, his inability and his efforts (relations with the unions, public administration, tax evasion; in short, it is always the fault of the others): I would say that these are little examples of the unfairness of the political and procedural method used so far. Our amendments therefore aim to re-introduce preferences, which are an expression of democracy and an instrument of legitimacy. We have also planned to raise the majority prize to the list or coalition that reaches 40% of the votes, but only if 55% of those entitled participate, to meet these needs, but to facilitate the ballot if not and to give more cohesion and popular choice in case of low participation. It cannot be considered valid in a mature democratic country a vote in which half of those entitled participate, in addition to rewarding exaggeratingly those who, with a few split votes, win the election. The history, the political sciences and the democratic countries teach us many methods and instruments of voting better than this disaster that is passed on to us for reform: from France we get the example of a valid majority system in double turn and from Australia that of a so-called alternative vote, systems too difficult for those who want to divide the armchairs and never return home again. Finally, we believe it is necessary to lower the barrier thresholds, which encourage abstentionism, because those who want to vote for a small party, given the few chances of overcoming the thresholds set by law, desist and do not vote: the drug barrier the vote because it exterminates minorities, while every list must be safeguarded, because it has its representativeness. This law seeks to protect linguistic minorities, but not political minorities. It is paradoxical: according to what assumption can a linguistic minority not be considered the same as a political minority? The PD speaks Renzi's language, but not that of many others in this room. Where has the motto of Voltaire gone: I disapprove of what you say, but will I defend until death your right to say it? In the discharge of some golden toilets probably or buried I believe along with the good intentions of which is paved the way of your ridiculous political and electoral act, which you have been offering us for a couple of years. I conclude with a thought to Charlie and all your beautiful performances these days, in which you have been in the front row to walk, together with all the powerful in the world, on the right and freedom to express your thoughts: with what courage today, tomorrow - or when it will be - you will vote this electoral law, which will shut millions of Italians' mouths? In fact, with what fear? [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group and the Senators De Pin, Candiani and Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u65	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u66	Madam President, among the many peculiarities of Italy with respect to the most advanced countries, the one concerning the electoral law stands out: our country, too, represents an anomaly, not only because the electoral rules are not very different depending on whether municipal, provincial, regional, national or European consultations are taking place but, even more so, because they are changed almost at every legislature, how the way in which the general elections are held are changed. It is a story that comes from afar and deserves to be briefly retraced. In the 1990s, the Italian people believed that the introduction of the majority system would solve all its problems and ensure stability: that is what was said, but it did not happen. The latest legislatures have experienced continuous changes in government, often occurring in a opaque way or without any electoral passage. The majority - it was said - would limit the number and the conditioning power of the minor forces, but this did not happen either. Instead, there has been the proliferation of political groups born in Parliament and without any rooting in the country, and this while society recorded the opposite phenomenon, i.e. the evaporation of mass parties, now reduced to pure electoral committees. The majority and in particular the direct election of the mayor or governor of the Region would finally have to guarantee transparency and honesty to the administration of the local authorities, but the events of recent months have shown that all the opposite has happened. The Mafia has not been eradicated by the Regions where it is historically established. On the other hand, in reverse of Leonardo Sciascia's prophecy, he climbed his boot and insinuated in the Center and in the North of the country. It must be acknowledged, however, that the electoral reforms of the 1990s were born of a real need, that of breaking with the system of association of the First Republic. Their promoters were, in many cases, motivated by good intentions. With the new millennium, every ideal motivation has failed. The reform of the electoral law had the explicit objective of favoring this or that political force. Every long-term perspective has been set aside. The immediate interest has been sought. Then came the Porcellum, which was wanted, in 2004, by Silvio Berlusconi, to create the best conditions at the Pole of Freedoms in view of the forthcoming election campaign and accepted by the left because it allowed its leaders, in a crisis of legitimacy before their electorate, to retain control of parliamentary groups. Now we have reached Italicum, a law that represents an absolute, as it contains -extremizing them - all the negative aspects of the precedents, failures, electoral reforms. I would like to list the most striking. We have an exorbitant majority prize, which will allow those who are minority in the country to control Parliament almost completely. As far as the barrier threshold is concerned, today we learn that the Government's amendment has been tabled which reduces the limit from 8% to 3%. This is a slight consolation for smaller parties and a way of misleading the problem of political representation. Members of Parliament, despite the opposite, will not continue to be chosen by the people. The blocked leader, rather small electoral colleges, the possibility of multiple candidatures will make this outcome inevitable. In essence, four people - Matteo Renzi, Silvio Berlusconi, Gian Roberto Casaleggio and Matteo Salvini - will appoint the majority of the MPs. The remainder will be appointed by minor oligarchs on the basis of the party alchemies present at the time of the elections. In front of this show you don't know whether to be dismayed or admired. The cleverness without principles, the most deteriorating of the anthropological characteristics of the Italians, finds in this law an almost perfect expression. It is evident the purpose for which it was conceived: it wants to predetermine the electoral outcome, directing - through the appeal to the useful vote - the consents of the Italians to some parties. It is desired that few oligarchs choose and control the elect, without losing face as it did with the Porcellum, but making possible in fact what was before by right. It aims, in short, to eternalize the Nazarene pact, building a system firmly centered on two forces (one of center and the other of center-right), only nominally opposed. The only oppositions planned are those populist Grillo and Salvini, as virulent on the verbal plane, as well as harmless on the practical one. The vote will become a mere formal act, totally irrelevant to the course of things. The election campaigns will turn into marketing operations. At that point, abstentionism will finally reach American levels. Transforming our constitutional structure into an oligarchical sense and making our democracy a post-democracy are the objectives of electoral reform and, more generally, of the other constitutional reforms promoted by the Renzi Government. It would not be explained otherwise the bitterness with which the elective Assemblies are abolished (from the Senate to the Provinces) and they refuse rules of pure common sense such as, among all, the one that wants to introduce a minimum threshold of participation in the vote of 50 percent to validate the second round of ballot. With the law that you are about to approve, you will feed apathy and abstentionism. What happened in Emilia-Romagna, where 30% of those entitled to vote in the last regional elections, does not seem to be concerned. No more winning, no more rubble. Dear colleagues from the Democratic Party, with this bill you will surely win the next election with your hands down. However, you take the responsibility of wasting a secular heritage of participation, cutting off the tree on which you are sitting. The United States is not Italy: in the United States high rates of abstention are bearable, because the true essence and greatness of American freedom do not reside so much in the political system and electoral law, but in the ability to guarantee ethnic and religious pluralism. In Europe - especially in Italy - things are different. Imagining a democracy in which fewer than 50% of voters vote simply means imagining the end of democracy. Taking responsibility for feeding this process would be unforgivable. I ask you, stop while you're in time. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Liuzzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u67	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u68	I will devote this time to disassembling all the lies you have told, including all the false myths about the electoral law that you have continued to say so far. There are few of you and I always hope that some of you will understand it, say enough and have a little conscience. I say this right because hope is unlimited and free, because otherwise I would have exhausted it already for a long time. Let's start with the concept of electoral law, which you ignore. You ignore the function of an electoral law. Of course everyone has the right to be ignorant, but - in my opinion - you are taking advantage of it a little too much and, therefore, you should stop. An electoral law is a mathematical concept: it is the law that must be better structured within a constitutional order, because it has a function that is actually mathematically impossible to achieve (one won the Nobel Prize with such a theorem). There is no means of achieving full representation. What does representation mean? You fill your mouth, but my ears feel that you don't understand. Representation means choosing a sample in which all citizens are represented. If 50% of the people don't vote already, that means there is a fundamental mistake. But the number one basic error is you: it's your fault. In fact, for example, in your electoral law you have not at all contemplated the possibility of individual nominations, because the Constitution provides that an individual citizen may apply. But not you: you, in perfect fascist style, have restricted the possibility only to parties, putting a nice filter, a gate. I see that even the word "fascist" does not strike you, yet this is the attitude. Let's go back to electoral law. What does your electoral bill provide for? First of all, it provides for a majority prize to be given to those who take at least 40% of the votes of those who vote. So, farewell to the representation of all those who decide not to go to vote. Attention: those who do not go to vote do not do so because they have other things to do, like going to the sea or to the mountains. These people don't go because they're aware that they're not represented by you. It is you as parties that do not represent them. But these people are completely ignored. The majority prize, which makes 40, 50 percent, is given to those who took 20 percent of the votes. So, in your opinion, 20% of the Italian active electorate would have the right to take everything. This is not democracy: this is dictatorship. I remember that when the famous scam law came in, which provided for a small majority prize for those who took 51% of the votes, the Communist Party rose. What do you do when you claim to be heirs to the Communist Party? Zero, silence, flat electroencephalogram. Congratulations. Let's move on: in addition to the problem of the majority prize, you are freaking out what the Constitutional Court has said. But the Constitutional Court is not a moron. The Constitutional Court has said that the majority prize is not good at all, because it violates Article 49 (2) of the Constitution. The operative part of the Court's judgment says that when an electoral system that gives a majority prize (i.e. provides for it on purpose) is foreordained, it is unconstitutional regardless of the size of the prize. There's a second thing the court says. It is also necessary to read the judgments, it is not enough to say "1st January 2014" to read them. The Court says that an excessive majority award is also wrong. So, going from 40 to 55 percent means 15 percent more: over 30 percent more overload than the representation won. Does 30 percent more seem little to you? It's a long time. So this is another unconstitutional element. But it is not over because there is also the matter of colleges. Too small colleges are not good because they allow you to condition and direct the vote and you put it, because you have an authoritarian and fascist management of the situation. Another thing that doesn't work. But it is not over, and clearly we can continue. We are in a parliamentary republic, so the formation of Parliament's consent through electoral consent is fundamental. You have forgotten that in a parliamentary Republic, in the event of a conflict between Parliament and Government, it is the government that goes home, it is not Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Here I take back what my colleague Mr Marton said, when he rightly made a distinction between the stability of the Commission and governability. A little review of the vocabulary tells us that governable means that it can be addressed. But it is much better to look at the synonym, because it is often not easy to define a word. Rather than a synonym, it is the revolutionary opposite. At the moment when you want to ensure governance - in your opinion, because this is the word you use - you mean that we are in a revolutionary and unmanageable situation, which is false. What is the stability of the Commission that you would like to see? It's another hoax. The stability of the Commission requires an Executive to remain in office for the time of the legislature. Why? Did the doctor say that? No. An executive must last for as long as it takes to carry out majority projects, because the parliamentary majority is the one that counts. The Executive is an executor, even if the Constitution gives him the power to make laws when it takes a little more immediacy. Another of the falsehoods you have said is that the important thing is to know who won on election night. Why? It's not relevant. The United States, which is a presidential republic, have been standing there a few months waiting for the recount to be made in Florida, until the Supreme Court has said "Enough," stop. However, there is no vacation of the institutions: the previous government remains in office. Don't tell this dance to the Italians because, when we arrived, there was still the Monti Government, which went on until Enrico Letta was installed. Have you forgotten this? I haven't forgotten, and I'm not even the only one. So there is no lack. Could you say that if you don't do "Fuffi," take the cookie!How do you make the laws in Italy? First of all, you have to think that Italy has about 75,000 laws (source: "Normantiva", the official portal of the Italian State, so don't tell me that's not true). Great Britain has 5,700 and Germany has 7,000. So there is no need to make a law a week, also because you often make wrong laws. If we are in the seventh decree saves Ilva, it means that for six times you have written a cow and therefore you need the seventh. Then let's not do this. What should Parliament do? Parliament should write the laws in a readable form; then the government gives it an applicability. Have you ever read Swiss laws? I'm a masterpiece, written in an understandable Italian. Or German laws? Sometimes there is the luck of having the English translation: they are well written, while the Italian ones are badly written because they are written by those who do not know how to do it. This should be done by Parliament. When we reach the electoral result, we are seeking consensus in Parliament on the measures we share, and then Parliament is working on them. When he has finished drawing the picture of the law he wants, he gives it to the government to which he says: "Do it yourself." This is the function of the Executive. You forgot this, because for you the electoral law has become a game of armchairs and people; indeed no bottom of the back of the people, your bottom of the back, what you want to keep over there. But here are few chairs for the number of people, 320; if they become 100, 220 of you leave. And if there are fewer chairs in the back, some backside remains uncovered; but you haven't even thought about that. Then I'll let you think about it. More generally, it is the problem of democracy that I do not think you have understood. Democracy is not an easy exercise. As Churchill said, democracy is the worst form of government, excluding all others. It is beautiful as an expression, because it means that the others are worse, but democracy is not easy. Democracy requires the citizen to be aware, especially if he is a depositary of 50,000 people. This is the report; this was wanted by those who made the Constitution. Every citizen represents 50,000 of them, so each of you should ask: what does this mass of people (50,000 people) want from me? If that is the spirit of democracy, that is the question you should ask yourself. You wait until the government arrives and takes you. Five of them have signed the amendment, which you have not even read, and that is okay with you. It shouldn't be good for you, for example, it's not good for us. This is another element you should think about. We could go a long way, because the concept of democracy is not limited to voting and voting in this House. For those who did not know, in the Argentine Parliament of the seventies when there was a military dictatorship, the parliamentarians were called the "alza manos," because they voted for a show of hands; they stared at the counter and always raised their hands together. Let's forget they didn't have an electronic vote, but that's what we did here when we got here. I would like to understand, therefore, how you feel different from those people who were executors of the orders of a military dictatorship: let us return to fascism. When do you stop being performers? That's enough when you say it. I have also shown you that the presence of a Parliament is not a necessary and not a sufficient condition for democracy, even if it is a freely elected Parliament, because the freedom of the elector is measured when he can choose his own representatives (and this law does not allow it because it is a pilot) and when every will, even a non-will, is properly represented and does not happen either. This electoral law is not intended to promote participation or representation. Let us return to the basis of democracy: Parliament must be sovereign, and every Member of Parliament, as the Constitution says, exercises his duties without a mandate. There is no such thing as the President-in-Office of the Council who says 'do this'. He can do that, but it is up to Parliament to tell him not to do so and it is also up to you to re-appropriate your role. I understand it: it is very convenient to get here: I don't ask, I don't say, I do what they tell me to do; I vote with the ball in the urn as Esposito did, who boasted about it as well, and I solved my problem. It's very convenient: they give me a good salary, refunds and I don't have to do anything. That's not how it works. This is a burden more than an honor because, beyond the money you take, it is very tiring to do what you do. It is very tiring and this should also stimulate your own love. Do you have a love of your own? I always hope you do, that you say this electoral law doesn't work. A mathematically serious electoral law can be written, especially since you think that this law should enter into force on 1 July 2016. There is a year and a half to make an electoral law but it is necessary to close this week. Why? And why does the electoral law have to come into force on 1 July 2016? What if the legislature ends first? You have to go and re-vote with what? Actually, with the mutilated Porcellum. You lied about that, too. The mutilated Porcellum works: just three lines of a law that makes it enforceable, because the Constitutional Court is not so stupid; in a sentence it also explains how it will work what has mutilated, and does not leave anything stingy. So he left us something that works, that is, a proportional election, the closest to copying the electoral representation. The final consideration is about the ballot. You believe that with the instrument of the ballot you can overcome the objection of the inflated representation. It's fake. And I'm also saying why. First of all, there is a scientific result, which is called the paradox of Condorcet (see Diderort, another famous encyclopedist of the French Revolution), which says an extremely simple thing: one must not violate the principle that if A is better than B and B is better than C A is better than C: there must be a chain of preferences. Instead, this electoral law does exactly the opposite; it may happen that I prefer A to B and B to C, but casually C is preferred to A. This is what happens with the ballot; what happens, for example, with the election of mayors. You complained that some mayors of the 5 Star Movement went to win by taking 15 percent in the first-round elections. Does this seem to you to be a correct electoral law? This would also work in the same way, with an even worse distortion because at the balloting they go to vote even less people; therefore the balloting would give a greater representation on a number of people even less than before. But do we realize? Paradoxically, if I had ten lists, one of which is worth 11% and the other a little less, with 11% I could win the ballot and take 55% of the consensus, with only 11% of the basic consensus, i.e. those who voted. This is not democracy: what do we want to call it? A fake, a hoax, a joke? Mathematically, we're not there in any way. Not only should we eliminate the speech of the ballot, but we should also review the direct election of the mayor by the current method. When there was no electoral method, the Municipal Councils worked; indeed they were much more efficient because the City Council was responsible; it was responsible for the expulsion or presence of the mayor. Now he's still like you, waiting for the mayor to say what to do, because that's how it goes five years. If the city council members are so attached to the chair, perhaps for a token of 70 euros per session, I imagine how you are attached to much more than 70 euros per session. The keys to changing this electoral law are there and are very simple. In return, there is no stability of the Commission, but as we said earlier, it is irrelevant that the Commission is stable; the important thing is that Parliament is stable, that a parliamentary term lasts. Instead, with such a law, Parliament becomes the ball at the foot of the government; when the government goes to the bottom of it, it carries it with it and vice versa. It is wrong because the basic principle of this Republic is not this, so you have to cut the chain; you have shears, you should only use them and instead you do not. In conclusion, there is nothing left of what you have said that can support this electoral law. Do you have a mirror at home? Look at you, listen to what I have told you, look for the pieces of support for everything I have said, because every conscious person must be able to refute what is said. Once you have done this, you have freedom to decide, because freedom is linked to responsibility. Do you want to be free? Then you must be responsible for your decisions. The alternative is to keep it that way: vote whatever is proposed and hope that the next round will have a little place for you. There are fewer chairs than the bottom of your back and so it won't be there, but it's your problem. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u69	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law. I recall, as has already been announced, that the Conference of Leaders will meet at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u72	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask the answer to an urgent question addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure, Lupi, on 3-01529 at the first signature of my own. This is a question concerning the construction of a motorway, the Valdastico Nord, whose project insists in an area at very high geological risk. However, I can understand the business behind the construction of this motorway, I can also understand, while not sharing it, the business behind the automatic renewal of the billionaire motorway concessions, which are always renewed to the usual friends of friends, without public race, as in the case of the A4. I also understand, although I do not share, even the Government that does not answer questions, whose answers would put him in great embarrassment (this happens in nine out of ten cases); but here, gentlemen, there is something even more important at stake: people's lives are at stake. There is a geological study carried out by a geologist, Professor Zampieri of the University of Padua, according to which the structural conditions of the mountain side are such as to suggest that during a seismic event the landslide could reactivate with the detachment of millions of cubic metres of material. It could be a new Vajont. The Minister takes on his responsibilities and comes to answer this question as a matter of urgency. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u75	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to ask for the answer to question 301547. It is a question addressed to the Interior Minister Angelino Alfano. It is now months if not years that news about an attack on the public prosecutor Nino Di Matteo in Palermo has followed. Many have requested the use of a device, the bomb jammer, which until now has not been granted by the Minister of the Interior. I can only mention a few statements in this regard, and I am referring exclusively to the quote part. They are therefore words spoken by the Minister. In December 2013, therefore more than a year ago, he stated: We have already made it available, except for a thorough technical verification. Being endowed with a strong electromagnetic power can produce very significant side effects to the health and therefore it is absolutely to be studied. On December 3, 2013 he claimed that the bomb jammer had arrived in Palermo or rather that it was coming and it was a matter of little. On 27 November 2014 on an online magazine "Live Sicilia" stated that it had been spoken with too much superficiality of bomb jammer being a device used mainly in war theaters or in specific cases. "Nobody can imagine that if Di Matteo's car passes, even the equipment of a hospital or the pacemaker of an elder on the road will be disabled. In front of these precise statements, which I can all see, I would like to read the answer given, exactly on 18 December 2014, to a question put by me, as the first signatory, in the Defence Commission, in which I asked the Minister if the jammer devices had ever been used by our army. Well, in the answer given by the Undersecretary Gioacchino Alfano (which, however, is not related to Minister Angelino), we are aware that only small and medium-power jammer devices are used in the military and not in the military. They are found not to be harmful to the health of the military and citizens and are also in compliance with current regulations. I am about to finish, Madam President. Nobody in here is talking about what's happening in Palermo. The air in Palermo is the same as in 1992. In this House, in the Senate Chamber, I would like to recall some strange coincidences that are happening again. In 1992, when the then president Cossiga was resigned, the new president was elected in a hurry on 24 May, after a huge bang in Capaci. In front of these traces, at these signals, I am sure that you, President, can immediately inform Minister Alfano that the data you have been looking for for for over a year exists and is in possession of the Ministry of Defence and therefore it is appropriate that immediately the bomb jammer is placed for the pm Nino di Matteo, indicated among other things by some press bodies as a possible President of the Republic wanted by Italian citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u76	Senator Santangelo, we will represent your demands. The Undersecretary present in this Chamber will be interpreting what has been said and asking questions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-375.ana.u77	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.35 a.m.
