ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u3	The next item is questions and questions. The first question will be asked on the presence of nuclear weapons in the bases of Aviano and Ghedi. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u4	Madam President, the subject proposed by the honourable Member has already been dealt with both in previous legislation and in this case, in response to questions of similar content and therefore, in line with consistency, we can only recall on this occasion the same elements of information that the Defense has already represented in these circumstances. Having said that, it should be stressed that the commitment to belong to the Atlantic Alliance undertaken by our country and its constraints are due to decisions taken in the past and reaffirmed over time. The Atlantic Alliance is an essential cornerstone of the security and defence of Italy and national interests. Together with the UN and the European Union, it is the reference of our multilateral initiatives to strengthen peace, stability and international security. However, while maintaining an absolutely transparent attitude to its nuclear strategy, NATO cannot act at the expense of the security and confidentiality that it is indispensable to have in relation to the dislocation, the quantities and the type of nuclear weapons it has; a confidentiality that cannot be unilaterally violated by a single country of the Alliance because nuclear deterrence is a good and a collective burden that binds collectively all the Allied countries. The typology and quality of the releaseable information on nuclear weapons is, therefore, a collective and unanimous political decision of the allies to which no country can escape, under penalty of the violation of the pact of alliance freely subscribed and of the bond of confidentiality that derives from it. With regard to Italy's alleged violations of international treaties, in particular the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, it is noted that, when the Treaty was negotiated and entered into force at the end of the 1960s, the possibility of storage of unconventional weapons on European territory was allowed by agreements already concluded and in existence. However, these agreements were again presented, for the sake of maximum transparency, to the rest of the signatory countries of the Treaty. In 1969 the Italian Government acceded to the Treaty and, referring precisely to the presence in Europe of arms, point 6 of the national restrictions (collectively accepted by the rest of the signatories), stated that "Italy" noted the full compatibility of the Treaty with the existing security agreements, i.e. it observes the full compatibility of the Treaty with the existing security agreements. In fact, even if placed in non-nuclear European countries, the devices in question remain under the control of the nuclear power that shares them with the allies for the purpose of collective defence, while for their use it is necessary the full consent of all the countries concerned. Therefore, the existing agreements and, more generally, the content of NATO's nuclear policy are consistent with the Non-Proliferation Treaty, since no transfer of nuclear weapons control to non-nuclear states is achieved. With regard to the last question, it should be noted that all activities related to the preparation and communication of plans for the defence of the civilian population in the event of a nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological emergency are carried out by the competent authorities in accordance with the provisions in force.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u7	DE PIN (Mixed). Madam President, Mr Rossi, on the non-proliferation pact, I would like to ask you: in the unfortunate event that the Italian Government should take part in a conflict, does Italy have any say in the matter of the use of nuclear weapons or subject to the Atlantic Pact?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u8	The questioning of the Whirlpool Group in Italy follows by abbreviated procedure, pursuant to Rule 156- bis of the Rules of Procedure. I call Senator Moronese to illustrate this interrogation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u9	Madam President, on 29 April this urgent question was presented to the Senate of the Republic about the serious employment situation involving the workers of the Indesit group, acquired by the American company Whirlpool, and we regret the fact that, despite the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, Article 156- bis, provides for the discussion within fifteen days of the presentation, it did not want to take care in due time, perhaps not to create embarrassment to the Government in replying before the elections just held. Having said that, let us get to the substance of the matter. The parliamentary act signed by the entire Group of Senators of the M5S retraces the most important moments of the story that I will try to summarize today. In December 2013, at the headquarters of the MISE, a long negotiation was concluded between the company Indesit, the Government and the social partners with the signing of an agreement that provided for precise and strict commitments by the company, including the renunciation to resort to the use of unilateral mobility procedures of the employees of the Italian plants until 2018 and considerable investments equal to 83 million euros distributed between the various offices of Fabriano, Melano, Albacina, Communza and Carinaro. It was also envisaged to reorganize the production of these premises to make them poles of excellence, each with its own precise production mission. Already here the first irresponsible act of this Government that, by signing this agreement, had not wanted to insert any safeguard clause for the workers and, that is, a clause that required the respect of the same also in the case of future acquisitions, nor did it provide for any penalties charged to the company. There is a second big mistake: it was also planned to set up a joint technical committee with the participation of the MISE in order to monitor compliance with the agreement. The Committee did not carry out any checks, given that the planned investments of Indesit have never been seen and that the new production lines have never been started. We said before the safeguard clause because - it happens - just seven months after the signing of this agreement, in July 2014, Whirlpool acquires Indesit and the president of the Council of Ministers Renzi, commenting on the news of the acquisition, claimed that it was a fantastic operation and that he had spoken personally with the Americans at Palazzo Chigi. Not happy, later, at a meeting with the workers in Pompeii, Renzi reiterated that, although there had been a more generous request from the Chinese, he had pushed for the Americans because they gave him more guarantee precisely on employment. What these guarantees were, we never knew. We arrive to 16 April 2015: Whirlpool presents the industrial plan to Minister Guidi and, from journalistic sources we learn the news of the closure of as many as 3 plants and 1,350 redundancies. But on the same day Minister Guidi issued a press release stating that he had obtained confirmation of the company's commitment to compliance with the December 2013 agreement and to avoid layoffs until 2018. Already we do not explain the contradiction between the statements of the company Whirlpool and that of the Ministry, but the most absurd thing is that since then many negotiating tables have opened and closed, and with what result? At the table on 20 May 2015, Whirlpool brought the number of redundancies from 1,350 to 2,060. So much for the guarantees of the Americans! The government's credibility is zero. This is seen from the non-respect of the 2013 agreement, from the result of the negotiating tables, where the situation of the workers has deteriorated, and also from how Whirlpool treats the representatives of the government. Consider that in the meeting in Carinaro, in the province of Caserta, last May 11, undersecretary Bellanova wanted to make a courtesy visit to the plant and instead Whirlpool closed the doors in her face, not allowing her to enter. Perhaps - and I repeat perhaps - the interweavings between the family business of Minister Guidi and American society have in fact made the ongoing negotiation weak and perhaps - I say perhaps - the contractual power of the Italian State is entirely spoiled, because there is also this potential conflict of interest. And maybe the government might even be blackmailed! We would like to reiterate that the situation of workers in Whirlpool is now a national one. As already mentioned, we have increased from 1,350 redundancies to 2,060, adding to the number of workers 480 employees and more 150 R &amp; D workers. Therefore, the risk of dismissal affects about one third of the total workers of the company, which are 6,740. Whirlpool's strategy to increase redundancies could have as its aim to ask the Government for further concessions as an exchange currency; concessions that could have already been agreed. The company, in fact, has declared that it would be willing to freeze the redundancies until 2018 only provided that it can count on the social shock absorbers until then. In addition, they are companies that have in fact enjoyed State aid of different types and with no obligation or penalty to be paid: first the Indesit, which has cashed out flower of money and then relocate to Turkey part of Caserta's own production, and after the Whirlpool, which thought well to take the Italian brand Indesit, the customer package that it offered, collect from the Italian State the money for social shock absorbers - as also declared by the managing director, Dr. Castiglioni, in audition right here in the Senate - and then decide to close and dismiss. Of the series: goodbye and thank you. Now I believe that workers are entitled at least to direct and precise answers to the questions that we have formulated in the same precise way, i.e.: whether they have actually been put into place employment guarantees, as announced, and, if so, what they consist of; whether the public offer of purchase corresponds to what was foreseen in the plans submitted to the President of the Council of Ministers in July 2014, if the latter correspond to the industrial plan officially presented on 16 April 2015 and if, therefore, President Renzi himself was already aware, on that date, of the possible plans for fusion, amalgamation, closure as well as of the actual number of redundancies planned; still, what actions, in relation to the guarantees for workers, he intends to take to protect the occupational levels of the Italian Indesit establishments, in particular those of Fabriano, Comunanza, Teverola, Carinaro and None; what measures he intends to take to ensure the employment of the 1,350 redundancies, which have now become 2.060. And again, we want to know the data relating to the total and detailed amount of State aid granted, against the Indesit before and Whirlpool after, and consequently to check whether the conditions are met to withdraw the contributions received, as provided for by the law of stability for 2014, approved by us (Article 1, paragraph 60, of Law No 147 of 2013) that provides, in order to safeguard the labour market and local production, that the state incentives granted to companies that relocate the productive activities in a State not belonging to the European Union should be returned. It is also asked to know what measures the Government intends to take, both at national and European level, in order to stop or limit the relocation of Italian production to the countries of the European Union which present a much more advantageous labour cost and, in this regard, if it does not consider it necessary to reduce direct and indirect taxation towards Italian companies, in order to make them competitive on European territory; what is the state of implementation of the national table of the white industry at the Ministry of Economic Development, requested and obtained by the unions, and, last, if it does not think, that the commercial relations between the industrial activities of Minister Guidi's family and Whirlpool can constitute a situation of conflict of interest and, if so, what initiatives it intends to take in this regard. The difficult economic conditions and the very high rate of unemployment, both in the Caserta-Naples area and in the Fabrian region, risk - in our opinion - causing further phenomena of industrial desertification, given the very high number of workers who risk dismissal. I therefore ask the Secretary-General here today to respond unequivocally to all the points raised in the questioning, which are considered among other things that all the Whirlpool workers, former Indesit, are watching from home. And I would ask, as far as these workers are concerned, not to go too far in terms of circumstances, but to go directly and comprehensively to the heart of the matter. I conclude by reminding you, if you had forgotten, that Article 1 of our Constitution reads: "Italy is a democratic Republic based on work and Article 4 reads: The Republic grants all citizens the right to work and promotes the conditions which make this right effective. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u10	The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Economic Development reiterates that the Whirlpool affair has been followed with the utmost attention on the question presented and now presented by Senator Moronese. The Government has promptly activated the table of confrontation between the parties, developing an in-depth analysis of the industrial plan presented by the company for the years 2015 to 2018. This plan provides for 500 million investments in processes, research and development products and for the realization of cutting-edge production platforms, as well as the consolidation of a strong industrial presence in our country. It should be noted that Whirlpool will place 70 percent of the research and development in Europe in Italy, while only the development of the dishwasher sector will continue outside the borders of our country. The plan contains, however, elements which we consider to be totally unsatisfying: firstly, a quantity of surplus employment which, apart from the expected recruitment, is equal to a quarter of the existing workforce. This means that employment is expected to fall by more than 2,000 people by 2018, of these about 600 employees and managers, amounting to about 4,800 employees. In detail, it has been announced the will to close the sites of Carenaro, where 820 people are occupied, and None, where 90 other people are occupied. The additional employment surpluses are allocated to Fabriano and Varese, as regards employees; in Naples for an additional 200 and for smaller quantities in the other Italian plants of the group. On all aspects of the industrial plan and especially on employment issues, numerous meetings were held at the Ministry of Economic Development, with the active presence of the Ministry of Labour. Since the start of the comparison, eight meetings have been held, during which it has not been possible to record significant changes to the most critical parts of the industrial plan now referred to. At the end of the last meeting, held on 20 May last, the Government had to take note of Whirlpool's unwillingness to significantly modify the parts of the plan considered most negative and defined as unqualifiable an industrial plan that cuts a quarter of the workforce with a particularly negative impact in the areas of the Mezzogiorno. The Government had reiterated its willingness to reconvene the parties, and this happened through a meeting promoted by the Ministry of Economic Development for the next 9 June. In our opinion it is not enough, it is not enough to ensure that workers are not fired until the whole of 2018 and neither are the incentives to exit or the use of solidarity contracts, even if they are necessary at some times in the company's life. What is needed are real job opportunities that really compensate for the job cuts announced. Obviously the Government, in view of the next meeting on 9 June, will continue to maintain relations with all the interested parties and with the territorial institutions involved in order to arrive at a positive solution of the matter. I would like to provide some useful elements regarding the development contract between the National Agency for Investment Attraction and Enterprise Development (Invitalia) and the same company signed on 25 July 2014. The demand for development contract Whirlpool, Omnia project, was presented on December 23, 2013 by Whirlpool Europe Srl, a company belonging to the Whirlpool Corporation group, a world leader in the production and marketing of household appliances, with an annual turnover of almost 19 billion dollars in 2013, 69,000 employees, over 60 production and technological research centers worldwide. The proposal concerns a programme of industrial development relating to the expansion of the production capacity of its plant in Naples for the production of a new type of medium-high range laundry product, which provides for productive investments of over 21 million euros. In addition, a research and development project is planned with the aim of increasing innovative systems, for a total investment of more than EUR 31 million. In the face of these investments, the Board of Invitalia decided to grant grants of 9,700,000 euros. It should be noted that the investment proposed by Whirlpool Europe Srl relates exclusively to the site of Naples and has the objective to maintain the current levels of employment that are found to be equal to 538 work units. It should also be noted that the development contract provides, inter alia, that the operations of a company character carried out during the implementation of the industrial development programme, or before five years from the date of completion of the industrial development programme, concerning the proposing undertaking and involving mergers, divisions, company transfers, transfer of business branches, transfer of parts of productive activities or of subsidised capital goods, leases, management of a company or business branches, must be brought to the attention of Invitalia in advance in order to assess the maintenance of facilities. On the point it is evident that, following the signing of the development contract, on 5 December 2014, Invitalia paid about 1 million euros of contribution related to the first tranche of regularly reported research and development expenses. Finally, as regards the fearful existence of situations of conflict of interest, it is necessary for clarity to represent the following. According to the figures provided officially by the Ducati Energia, the supply to Whirlpool turns out to be of 100,000 euros, pairs to 0,02 percent of the turnover of the company, contrary to what indicated in the act of inspection union, that mistakenly indicated an amount of approximately 100 million. In any case, it is worth remembering that Minister Guidi, at the time of his appointment, resigned from all the positions of the company and from the positions held. Moreover, as is known to this Assembly, the Competition and Market Authority, at its meeting on 5 March 2014, considered that there was no incompatibility in the post of Government held by the Minister of Economic Development Federica Guidi, in accordance with the rules on the resolution of conflicts of interest.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u14	MORONESE (M5S). Madam President, this is embarrassing, very embarrassing. I said in advance that I was hoping that you, Undersecretary Giacomelli, would use your minutes not to explain the situation of Indesit, since I had already done so, but to give precise answers. I asked 14 questions and instead you talked about the meetings and, in practice, told about everything the government could not do for the workers involved. I didn't care that you had eight meetings. I was not interested to know that the government has recently declared that the plan of Whirlpool is unqualifiable because, before the word "unqualifiable," I remember the word "fantastic" used by Renzi. So, we need to be aware of the situation. We wanted to know why the Renzi Government didn't take due care when it signed the deal with Indesit. The workers want to know what the actions are to make up for this huge mistake. We're not talking about numbers, we're talking about people who won't have a plate for their families tomorrow, and you tell me that in exchange for their lives and their families, in exchange for their situation, you gave Whirpool $9 million to get what in return? Did you know, then, that they only wanted to invest in Naples? Did you know that they wanted to close already at the time, already in 2014 and maybe even in 2013 - but I don't want to make these insinuations - the headquarters of Carinaro and that 815 families would end up in the middle of the street? You kept quiet. Why? Because this Government has no interest, as it is written in the Constitution, in protecting workers. You have allowed and facilitated entry to an American company, to which you give everything you ask, and then you are surprised that Whirpool has not shown signs of failure and that it does not meet you in rewording the plan. The Italian government, before allowing all this, had to put the dots on the "i": it didn't have to give it money for social shock absorbers; it didn't have to give it 9 million to lose money to send the workers in the middle of the road. This is unacceptable. You also use these workers to campaign for them. I am from Caserta and for two years as Movement 5 Stars we fight alongside those workers, because we know the territory and we are next to the people. But when did you make the catwalk? Only in the pre-election days, without distinction between right and left. The former president of the Caldoro Region of Forza Italia came to promise 50 million euros, which he knew he could not give, considering that he is not even President of the Region anymore. And then it was SEL's Vendola's turn, to say it would put a lot of pressure on him. Where'd he go? Where's SEL? Not to mention your inevitable De Luca, who came to take the catwalk a few days before the election. Your entrepreneurial and ineligible De Luca who, as the first action after the elections, what did he do? He looked after his judicial troubles, filing a complaint against the President of the anti-Mafia Commission. Well, the first action he had to take was to put his hand on the question of working in Campania: there is total desertification and you do not cowardly deal with it. Cowardly you move in favor of foreign companies and then come and say that there is no conflict of interest. There is a typo in the question, Secretary: it was not EUR 100 million but EUR 100 000, as you said, but it does not matter the amount. According to my point of view and our point of view, the conflict of interest is there, because Minister Guidi has no contractual power in front of a company with which his family collaborates. So let us put in place the motion of distrust of the Minister, because it is unacceptable that there should be such interests. Moreover, all the Guidi family companies have relocated abroad. That's a good example. Where are the aid, the tax relief for Italian companies? He didn't answer me. Why? And what are now the remedies for those workers? He didn't answer me. You are telling me that the government is bowing again - excuse me - at 90 degrees and saying yes to Whirpool, as it has done for the last two years. Saturday I will meet for the umpteenth time - now I do it assiduously - the workers of Whirpool, ex Indesit... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator. MORONESE (M5S). I shall begin with the conclusion, Mr President. Carinaro is a huge, state-of-the-art plant with qualified personnel. You guys are screwing with it. I will meet the workers on Saturday and confirm what they already think of you all: you are an unqualified, inoperable government that is not able to represent the Italian people in Italy or in the world. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u15	The following is the question 3-01639 on the rationalization plan of Poste italiani SpA, with particular regard to Molise. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u16	Madam President, in advance, it must be noted that the postal sector, at national and Community level, has been affected in recent years by profound changes affecting the regulatory environment and, in particular, the transition of regulatory and supervisory functions from the Ministry of Economic Development to the Authority for Communications Guarantees, as a result of Decree-Law No 201 of 6 December 2011, converted into Law No 214 of 22 December 2011. In addition, there have been significant changes in competition and changing user needs towards a significant differentiation in the supply of services. In this context, the provision of the universal service presents problems related to particular demographic and territorial conditions, characterized by large areas of difficult accessibility and low density of housing. The program contract in force between the Italian Ministry and Post Office requires article 2, paragraph 6, that the latter transmits to the Authority for the guarantees in the communications, on an annual basis, the list of post offices and delivery structures that do not guarantee conditions of economic equilibrium and, at the same time, the intervention plan for the progressive rationalization of their management. The Authority shall, in the exercise of its supervisory powers, carry out an evaluation of the plan to rationalise the management of post offices in order to verify compliance with the criteria for the distribution of points of access to the postal network. The program contract also allows Italian Post Office, subject to agreement with the local authorities, to ensure a more articulated presence in the disadvantaged territorial areas. It is our hope, therefore, in compliance with the needs of users, that the maximum consultation between the Italian Post Office and the local authorities will take place. This commitment, moreover, was also highlighted during the meeting of 12 February last, had with the managing director of Poste italiani and the president of the AGCOM. At the request of the Italian Ministry, by letter of 7 April 2015, it agreed to suspend the implementation of the rationalisation plan, originally planned for 13 April 2015, in order to ensure greater involvement of local authorities and their administrators, in order to take effective account of the needs of citizens, with particular attention to the weakest groups, and the specificities of the territories. The company has also undertaken to explain how innovative services will ensure universal service protection for all citizens. With particular reference to the regional territory of Molise, the society has specified that, regarding the 169 post offices currently operating, 19 interventions of remodulation of the opening hours and the closure of the Monteverde office of Bojano, in the Municipality of Bojano have been inserted in the plan. Italian Post Office has however ensured that all the interventions included in the plan are fully respectful of the above mentioned legislation and that the implementation of the same will take place only after having completed the confrontation started with the local institutions. The same company has, moreover, reiterated that the aforementioned participations will not imply any managerial criticality, maintaining the current levels of service without generating any employment problems. In relation to what Senator Ruta has pointed out about the disservices found in the delivery service in Molisani Municipalities, Poste italiana informs that in the Province of Isernia, during the first months of the current year, some difficulties have been recorded in conjunction with the merging phase of the center of Venafro in the center of Isernia. The initiatives taken by the territorial corporate leaders, to which it has been mentioned in the meeting with the mayor of Venafro, have allowed to face the situation, bringing it back quickly to normal. Regarding the Municipality of Petacciato, the company has evidenced that the delivery service is assured without interruption, thanks to the presence of a holder letter holder and escort operators equipped with an adequate knowledge of the territory. In this regard, Poste italiani has emphasized that, on the aforementioned municipal territory, persist problematic connected is to the absence of chamberhouses near the majority of the houses, is to the adoption of the new toponymy, moreover already object of analysis in occasion of the encounter happened between the mayor and the territorial manager, held in the month of June last year. Having said this, in response to the first two questions put by Senator Ruta, it is evident that the Authority, with its own resolution, which includes points of access to the postal network: modification of the distribution criteria of the Italian Post Office, has integrated the criteria of distribution of post offices referred to in Article 2 of the Ministerial Decree of 7 October 2008, through the introduction of specific guarantees to protect users resident in remote areas of the Country, qualifying as such, on the one hand, the rural municipalities that also fall into the category of totally mountain municipalities and, on the other hand, the smaller islands. In any case, as far as the Ministry of Economic Development is concerned, we will not fail to urge Italian Post Office to continue to confront the local authorities, in order to agree the effects of its plan on the services offered, ensuring the full operation of the universal service, especially for citizens who reside in disadvantaged areas of the country and/or under conditions of reduced mobility, also in view of the age. It should also be pointed out that, within the framework of the aforementioned resolution, the Authority has also carried out an in-depth study with regard to innovative value-added services in the development phase by Poste Italiani that, taking advantage of the possibilities offered by the most advanced technologies, should be able to facilitate the access of users to the services included in the universal service, even in the absence of a post office. On this aspect, the Authority has reserved the right to review the criteria for the distribution of points of access to the postal network, as defined by article 1, paragraph 2, letter c), of legislative decree no. 261 of 1999, in the light of the evolution of the market, and in particular of the offer of innovative services and the needs of users. In this regard, however, as requested in the other three questions asked by Senator Ruta, about the interventions aimed at guaranteeing all users their right to use the universal postal service, as already reported, the Ministry does not directly have the prerogative and the ability to evaluate the correspondence of the plans of rationalization of Post to the lines of universal service, prerogative that belongs to the competent Authority for the guarantees in communications. Despite this, as already mentioned, the Government has considered, however, to take a political initiative aimed at promoting an effective comparison between the company and the local authorities concerned. In this regard, in recent days, to the representatives of ANCI who have come to the Ministry to express the concerns for the confrontation in place and to urge the idea that this confrontation should be an effective evaluation, with willingness on both sides to find solutions, we have given willingness, which I confirm in this House, to take again the initiative to promote, at national level, a meeting with the managers of Post Office and the associations of the Autonomous Communities. What we asked Italian Post Office, and that we confirm, is not the ritual passage of a meeting with the administrations concerned, but an effective, real comparison aimed at finding solutions. And in this sense, again, we will take the necessary initiatives. Moreover, on this issue the Authority, heard several times, has evidenced that, in order to allow a more punctual assessment of the impact of the aforementioned plan on the local population, as well as the eventual identification of alternative solutions more responding to the specific territorial context, article 5, paragraph 1, of the aforementioned resolution has previewed the obligation of pre-notification to the mayors of the Municipalities at least sixty days before the planned date of implementation of the intervention. The Authority itself has also ensured that it will continue its supervisory activity, ensuring that the legality, in terms of consistency with current legislation, of the closings or hourly remodulations of the post offices contained in the plan communicated by Poste Italiani is verified.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u19	RUTA (PD). Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I am satisfied, but with a brief. I am satisfied because the government has done well to call the management of Italian Post. It is well done to involve also the Authority for the guarantees in the communications (AGCOM) and to ask Poste italiani to make an intervention in a program contract, in agreement with the local authorities and, however, before giving implementation to this program. Well, the government did, but we need to see what the conclusion is. I therefore particularly welcome the attention of the Undersecretary, who wanted to call once again for the Italian Post Office, and the willingness to follow the progress of the work effectively and in a pedissequa manner. When we talk about rationalization we must consider that Poste Italiani has the extraordinary advantage, in a non-competitive situation, because out of market, to manage the universal postal service until April 30, 2026, being subject to five-year checks by the Ministry of Economic Development on the level of efficiency in the supply of the service. Italian Post Office - I would like to remind myself - is a public limited company and the rights of the shareholder are exercised by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. I also remember that Poste italiani, in the South 1 area, has intended to promote initiatives of rationalization for as many as 26 offices, 19 of which interest the Region Molise, but which also concern Puglia and Basilicata. It is, however, an issue that concerns the whole of Italy and certainly the most remote areas of our peninsula. Italian Post Office collects a large amount of savings, especially from the elderly population - by tradition or because pensions retire to Post Office - and has a huge competitive advantage. I would like to understand, then, where the investments are made: I do not say that what you recover from a given Region you have to invest in the same. To go, however, to hit the very population of the areas where it is recovered more, because the elderly population has a more significant presence, offering services that become increasingly difficult to reach - rationalization often means just that - becomes a problem. In this way the State creates a disservice through Post and this is not good. I shall conclude, Madam President, by saying that the suspension is okay, and it is okay that this is done after the discussion with the local authorities is completed. I am convinced that the Undersecretary will "be on track" and will follow closely the development of the situation. The meeting with the ANCI and the notification to be made to the municipalities at least sixty days before, which must not, however, simply say that we go away, but be the beginning of an administrative procedure. Therefore, it must not be an aseptic communication, but a way to interrogate, declaring that there is a certain intention and asking the local administration to meet and discuss it together. However, it must not be put entirely on the hands of the local authorities, because this would be complex, given the budgetary conditions of the municipalities, which are not in a situation in which they can make donations or mortal leaps. I shall conclude by saying to you, Secretary-General, that I know that the commitment you have made in this House is solemn and that I will have to follow it, as you will certainly follow the development of the situation. However, I am talking about the whole Italian "stival," because this theme arises from the Alps up to Sicily. Obviously it crosses all the Regions of Italy, including Sardinia, through the whole boot. Compared to this, there is a need for that universal service to be carried out in such a way that the last Italian can also have an adequate postal service. The disservice created between Venafro and Isernia meant that the bills were not paid, obviously at a cost to the people. So, be careful with the operations. Let us follow them with the utmost care and care they require, because this is an important service for citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u20	Following is the question 3-01676 on the safeguarding of the Cinecittà studios area. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, Senator De Petris calls for information on the preservation of the cultural, productive and professional heritage of Cinecittà. As is well known, the studies of Cinecittà are owned by Istituto Luce-Cinecittà Srl, a company with total participation of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, whose rights as a member are exercised by the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, pursuant to Article 14 of Decree-Law No 98 of 6 July 2011, converted with amendments by Law No 111 of 15 July 2011. The management of the studies of Cinecittà is entrusted to the company Cinecittà studios SpA, in which Istituto Luce-Cinecittà holds a participation of 20 percent, while 80 percent of the capital is private shareholders (IEG SpA company). The legal relationships linking the public company Istituto Luce-Cinecittà Srl to the manager Cinecittà studios SpA consist in a nine-year lease agreement, with the possibility of renewal and expiry on 31 July 2017 (in this context are also governed the obligations of extraordinary maintenance and modernization to be borne by the landlord and the tenant); in a contract of license of the brand name "Cinecittà" for consideration, with a maturity parametrata to the real estate lease, which assigns to Cinecittà studios the commercial management of the brand for the activities related to the studios, while the legal protection of the brand remains to the owner Istituto Luce-Cinecittà; in a contract of real estate development, in compliance with the historical constraints already existing. This plan provides for a series of measures necessary to strengthen and modernise the studies themselves, in order to make them competitive at international level. In particular, it is the realization of a large and modern laying theatre of the same size as the theatre 5, suitable for filming with digital integrations and in 3D; of buildings able to accommodate in modern offices the district of cinema and multimedia; of functional tools both to the new theater and to those neighboring and accommodation facilities for technicians and workers. The spaces and buildings built will be granted for consideration, for a period of thirty-nine years, to the manager Cinecittà studios SpA and, at the end of the term, will be returned to the property of the public partner Istituto Luce-Cinecittà Srl. It should be noted, moreover, that the building rights derive from a convention already existing since December 1983 between the Municipality of Rome and the then Cinecittà Spa and it is specified that no historical building of Cinecittà will be touched by these new buildings. Over the last two years Cinecittà studios has started, in order to face the economic crisis it is facing, some organizational changes: it has transferred to the private company Deluxe the branches of the company related to the digital laboratory-post productions and to the development and printing of films; it has transferred the branch of company "technical means" to the private company Panalight; it has activated, in December 2012, the agreements of solidarity for the workers in charge of Cinecittà studios for the department sets and laying theatres. On 16 April 2014 was signed at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, also in the presence of the Lazio Region, an extraordinary cash-integration agreement for the cessation of activities of the development and printing laboratory sector for 39 units, for a period of 24 months. This agreement concerns the so-called "development and printing" branch of the company, which was returned at the end of the lease from De Luxe to Cinecittà Digital Factory. It is necessary to point out that the Ministry does not exercise control over the company Cinecittà Digital Factory, through the Istituto Luce Cinecittà Cinecittà Cinecittà Cinecittà Cinecittà Cinecittà Cinecittà Cinecittà Cinecittà Digital Factory, and therefore cannot intervene on the industrial and personnel management policies of that legal entity, nor on the modalities of application and extension of the measures of Cassa Integrazione within the competence of the Ministry of Labour. Having said this, this Ministry, through the competent Directorate-General for Cinema and through Istituto Luce Cinecittà Srl, has been and continues to be a diligent part in the search for solutions suitable for safeguarding employment levels, both by promoting and participating in a series of meetings between the company and the workers of Cinecittà studios. The Ministry that I represent here, in the first months of 2014, had also assumed, as far as its competence is concerned, precise commitments for the recovery of Cinecittà. In fact, they were studying targeted legislative interventions in the sector, such as to attract large international productions, to safeguard employment and the many valuable professionalism and to retrain the area, maintaining its indispensable bond of destination, as well as protection. As far as sector legislation is concerned, the changes announced by the Ministry in 2014, as follows: The appropriation for tax reliefs in favour of the cinema sector (Article 1, paragraphs 325 to 335, Law 244 of 24 December 2007 and Ministerial Decree of 7 May 2009), with the decree Bray value culture (Article 8 of Decree-Law of 8 August 2013, No 91, converted with amendments by Law of 7 October 2013, No 112) has been "stabilised" and extended also to the audiovisual sector and increased from 90 to 110 million euros annually. In addition, Article 6 of Decree-Law No 83 of 31 May 2014, so-called art bonus, converted with amendments by Law 29 July 2014, provided for a further increase in the budget for tax credit (from 110 million to 115 million from the year 2015). In particular, the maximum tax credit limit for executive production companies and the technical industries that realize in Italy, using Italian workforce, films or parts of foreign films has been raised from 5 to 10 million euros. This change, already operational, responds effectively to the ratio of attracting more foreign investments in the field of film production in Italy and avoid relocations abroad of film productions. It is also imminent to enter into force the application provisions concerning also the audiovisual tax credit, which will encourage the realization in Italy of international TV series and not (so, as a result, also the use of studios). What other useful initiative, announced in 2014, is represented that, at the invitation of the honourable Minister Dario Franceschini, have been asked in depth to the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which holds the corporate participations in Rai and Istituto Luce Cinecittà, about the possibility to invite the two companies to a program of partnerships related to concurrent activities (such as the rationalization of the real estate sector of Rai with the theatres and offices of Cinecittà or the digitalization programs of the archive Light and Teche Rai), with the aim also to relaunch the activities within the production site of Cinecittà. The first in-depth studies showed that for the Istituto Luce Cinecittà it was possible to intervene with an act of ministerial direction. As a result, the possibility of an agreement with other public and institutional entities was recently adopted as a strategic operational objective in the context of the mission pursued by Istituto Luce Srl in order to increase the use for commercial purposes of the Cinecittà theatres, but also for the establishment of activities of general interest to be carried out within Cinecittà, aimed at the creation of an audiovisual pole for exhibition activities - also permanent - of training and valorization of Italian culture and expressive arts, as well as of Made in Italy. The Ministerial Decree of 29 January 2015 containing the Act of Address of the Minister of the Heritage of Cultural Activities and Tourism for Istituto Luce S.r.l. (adopted pursuant to article 14, paragraph 9, of Decree-Law of 6 July 2011, n. 98, converted with amendments by law 15 July 2011, n. 111) defines its objectives for the period 2015-2017. In the context of the objectives entrusted to the company, in point 1), the Light Institute - Cinecittà S.r.l. is invited to present a plan to relaunch the Cinecittà area, involving, beyond RAI RADIOTELEVSIONE ITALIANA SpA on the basis of special agreements, also the other primary partners operating in the audiovisual sector, starting from the subjects of publicistic nature operating in it. As far as RAI is concerned, the procedure necessary for the feasibility of this plan to be part of it appears understandably more complex and complex, compared to the issuing of an act of direction as per Istituto Luce, expected the necessary involvement, as well as the Ministry of Economy and Finance, also of the Ministry for Economic Development. It is represented that in the mission of Istituto Luce S.r.l., in paragraph 2 of the aforementioned decree, it is also expected that "Istituto Luce - Cinecittà S.r.l. is invited, in particular, to collaborate with all public institutions and any private parties interested in the valorization and recovery with the activities inherent in the laying theatres and with the post-production structures, in order to enhance and relaunch the productive activities carried out in the Cinecittà site. In addition to point 3 (f), the company may represent the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism in the administrative bodies of bodies and foundations and bodies involved in the promotion and dissemination of the film industry. The Festival of Rome has now entered in law the rose of festivals of international importance and, on December 16, 2014, at the will of the Minister, the MIBACT - Directorate-General for Cinema has requested from Istituto Luce - Cinecittà S.r.l. to join the foundation of Cinema for Rome. This choice will allow to acquire an active, participatory and decision-making role and no longer merely supporter of the Festival with a view to maximum synergy and strategic valorization of the cinema and audiovisual market, to be turned in favor of the historical area of Cinecittà. Finally, with regard to the proposed possibility of acquiring the majority of the companies operating in the area, the following is represented. Any possibility of reversal of the process that, in the 1980s, led to the privatisation of the activities carried out within the Cinecittà studios was excluded in several locations. From this point of view, it is not acceptable to carry out activities of an industrial or commercial nature, in competition with private entities operating in the field of technical industries and laying theatres, by the State. It should also be noted that the current private operator, who owns its branches, would not want to give them up. Having said that, however, the Minister recently announced the birth of the Italian MIAC -Museum of Audiovisual and Cinema, which will be realized by Istituto Luce-Cinecittà within the Cinecittà studios, and for which the competent structures of MIBACT are considering the possibility of recovering part of the workers of the area affected by the cash-integration procedure extraordinary gains.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u24	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I cannot at all be satisfied with the response of the Undersecretary, who has retraced a whole story that I know perfectly well. Unfortunately, even the fairly recent press releases of the same minister Franceschini, in which he undertook to return international centrality to the studios and to safeguard their professionalism, in fact did not solve the problems that had already been expressed, and that I had included in the question and on which I asked explanations, with particular reference to the workers in the development and printing sector placed in cash integration, expressing therefore also concern for the expiration of the same 28 April 2015. And not only that: in the meantime, other problems related to the digital and audio sector have been added, on which specific commitments had also been made, which had in fact been rented, with its 54 workers, since 2012 to the multinational Deluxe for 38 of these, having been put into liquidation the same company Deluxe, today asks for the Cassa Integrazione. The proposal for a trade union agreement, which was proposed by the parties in May 2015, did not by chance see the subscription by any trade union, because in reality it did not contain commitments not only in terms of employment but, in a more general perspective, of relaunching the studies. What's going on? It is clear that the employment problems are a spy of the fact that the operations carried out at Cinecittà obviously do not have the purpose, especially on the part of the private society of which the Light Institute has 20%, to relaunch also at international level the studios and to safeguard and enhance the professionalism. There is, in fact, another priority, which is the magical word you mentioned at the beginning: it is real estate developments. That is the essential point. You know perfectly well that two international productions like Ben Hur and Zoolander 2 are now being produced. Just for Ben Hur, since a very difficult situation is being created within Cinecittà, some of the works have been moved to Castel Romano. There is a risk that on Cinecittà - and this is the problem I have not had answers to - will insist on hotels and shopping malls, being that area more central and, therefore, the space within Cinecittà will no longer be sufficient to guarantee the productions we were talking about. From this point of view, I think it is absolutely necessary to stress a further point. It is not true that the Ministry cannot intervene with society to be the guarantor of employment, because all that operation is born for the revival of a symbolic place of Italian culture that cannot only be a museum, but must continue to live. The intervention also serves to safeguard the great professionalism. I'm also very disappointed with what you said about the agreement with RAI. The agreement with RAI, the other great cultural company in our country, was one of the cornerstones for the revival of Cinecittà itself and, above all, for the possibility of professional and occupational enhancement. I hope that the Ministries of Labour and Cultural Heritage - and I will also ask for this proposal - will open a table not only in order to guarantee the commitments already made before, but also in order to do a job of relaunching and guaranteeing employment plans. In this way we will only have an occupational hemorrhage and probably all interests will only focus on real estate developments. And it is known that the destinations of use are unfortunately easily deceptive.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u25	Following is the question 3-01713 on the rules on insurance against occupational diseases. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u26	Madam President, the questioners, in this Parliamentary act, draw attention to the alleged lack of information, represented by the absence of a voice in the death certificate of the worker allowing occupational diseases to be related to the cause of death. In this respect, I would first like to point out that compulsory insurance against occupational diseases operates only on condition that there is an obligation for accident insurance. There are therefore no workers who are protected only for occupational diseases. Unlike accidents at work, the opportunity for work is not sufficient for occupational diseases, i.e. an even mediated or indirect relationship with the occupational risk, but there must be a causal or direct causal relationship between the occupational risk and the illness. As regards data on the technopathic phenomenon, it is represented that INAIL has an information heritage of excellence, which is continuously integrated and enhanced in order to improve the understanding of the phenomenon and to guide policies and preventive interventions. Particular attention is paid by INAIL to the dissemination of data on occupational diseases, which are made available, in historical series and with systematic updates, according to different types of analysis, with details on pathology, mortal cases, territorial distribution, the outcome of the definition and the degree of impairment. The dissemination of data on technopathies, within the framework of the INAIL information patrimony, takes place through various channels, including paper publications, online databases and so-called open data, the latter available on the INAIL web portal. In addition, I would like to point out that INAIL has recently published a new research journal entirely dedicated to the phenomenon of occupational diseases. This document, in particular, contains detailed information on complaints of occupational disease broken down by year of protocolation, by gender, by place of birth, by geographical region, by management, by administrative definition, by recognized grade or mortal outcome; to occupational diseases recognized by types of pathologies, including data of asbestos-related diseases broken down by gender, year, specific pathologies, degree of impairment or mortal outcome. Finally, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Health, expressly asked, has communicated that precisely in order to remedy the lack of information that allows to correlate the occurrence of occupational accidents and diseases with the working history, has financed a specific project called "Update WHIP health", whose purpose is to update to the most recent year of available detection, the system of longitudinal survey WHIP (Work History Italian Panel) containing the individual working stories, based on records deriving from work stories of source INPS, accidents of source INAIL, shelters of source Ministry of Health and causes of death of source ISTAT, inserted in the national statistical program called "Work and health"; an integrated information system for the monitoring of the health of Italian workers.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u29	PHASE (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank you for your answer, which is certainly comprehensive and for your attention to the important issue of precision in the statistical collection of data relating to the causes of death, implemented through the compulsory compilation, by medical staff, of the ISTAT death certificate. As the question points out, and as you have answered, there is a deficiency to which, if I understand correctly, the current impossibility for the doctor to clearly indicate, in a separate section, the possible connection of the death of a patient with the onset, already diagnosed and demonstrated previously, for the purpose of obtaining INAIL benefits, with pathologies arising at the workplace. It is precisely this cause-effect relationship, this model that must contemplate if a death is determined by a cause of work, which appears quite ambiguous. This model will be absolutely necessary to have comparable and comparable ISTAT data, also related to the past. In fact, there is a risk of underestimating the data.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u30	The following are questions 2-00222, by abbreviated procedure, pursuant to Rule 156-a of the Rules of Procedure, and questions 3-00883, 3-01412 and 3-01547 on the protection of the public prosecutor Di Matteo against the threats of organised crime. I call Senator Pepe to illustrate this interrogation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u31	Madam President, the objective of this cross-cutting interrogation addressed to the Minister of the Interior, who sees all the writers aware of the need for political support for the servants of the State in danger and which we presented months ago, was as much felt as simple: to equip the public prosecutor Di Matteo and his escort of the bomb jammer device - the anti-terrorist system that could have saved the life of Falcone and Borsellino - also in view of the delicacy and essentiality for the Italian democracy of the investigation currently conducted on the negotiation of the State-Mafia; an issue that became urgent after the last revelations on the risk attacks on the public prosecutor of Palermo and his escort. Urgent, urgent. It's been four months. Matthew was the flag, the soldier most in sight of the large army of servants of the state in danger. Other names follow in the list, equally committed and essential for the security of the Republic and for justice equally in danger. In Bologna we remember the PM Valter Giovannini, who received repeated threats from antagonistic groups, including the collective Hobo. In Reggio Calabria, the Deputy Prosecutor Nicola Gratteri and the PM of the Anti-Mafia District Direction Giuseppe Lombardi are the subject of numerous and repeated threats by the 'ndrangheta, also concerning the family of the latter who lives in the province of Caserta. In Palermo, Naples and Milan, many of the most committed magistrates and prefectial commissioners who have been invited especially in the areas infected by the mafias are without any protection. The list is still long, the urgency is the same. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The representative of the Government may reply in conjunction with the question and the question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you have already announced, I respond jointly to Senator Pepe's questioning and to the questions put by Senators Bulgarelli, Campanella and Santangelo, with whom the Minister of the Interior is asked about the security measures taken to protect the deputy prosecutor of the Republic of the anti-mafia district management at the Palermo Court, Dr Antonino Di Matteo, with particular reference to the use of the technological device called bomb jammer. I would immediately like to point out that the protection of the magistrates involved in the fight against organised crime is a top priority and the state is ready to intervene with every means at its disposal to ensure the necessary tutorial measures. The security situation of Dr. Di Matteo has been examined several times by the National Committee for Public Order and Security and since June 2013, the deputy prosecutor has become the recipient of a first-level protection apparatus (so-called exceptional protection). This system is also complemented by a fixed and dynamic surveillance service dedicated to the home, as well as a fixed supervision close to that of the parents; measures in turn enhanced by video surveillance facilities at the aforementioned residences. The overall tutorial structure has been strengthened with the use of a further specialized car, as well as two anti-explosive dogs for the preventive reclamation of both these houses. As regards, in particular, the use of the radio frequency disruptor, so-called boom jammer, I inform you that a Commission composed of representatives of the Department of Public Security, with the help of specialist bodies of other administrations, has screened the device in question, due to possible interference with telephone equipment, electromedical devices and radio communications using electromagnetic frequencies. After the appropriate checks had been carried out, the commission provided certain requirements for the correct use of the equipment. The evaluation of the device ended last April with a favourable response to the needs for the protection and health of the population and operators. Therefore, since 8 May, protection measures to protect Dr. Di Matteo have been supplemented by the use of the bomb jammer. On a more general level, I inform that all magistrates of the District Prosecutor Anti-Mafia and the Prosecutor General of the Republic at the Court of Appeal of Palermo, engaged in the conduct of investigations and processes concerning the so-called negotiation, are protected through guardian devices commensurate with the specific precautionary requirements individually identified and at the different levels of established exposure to personal risk. I also assure them that the prefecture of the Sicilian capital and the central office of personal security forces are ready, even in an emergency, as in the past, to dispose of new personal protection measures or the strengthening of the existing devices, in conjunction with the acquisition of information elements related to the realization of criminal planning in their damage by organized crime of the mafia type. In essence, safety devices are constantly updated in order to ensure maximum effectiveness.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u35	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Madam President, I thank the Deputy Minister, but I am not particularly satisfied, because I asked for two more information: firstly, how many devices are used in our country, and this question has not been answered; and secondly, I wanted to know who already uses them in our country. There were two fairly clear questions to which you, Undersecretary, did not answer. Given that the Government is focusing everything on the Presidency of the Council and the President of the Council, I would like to know whether the protection of the people who fight the mafia is a top priority, also because it took only a year and a half for Nino Di Matteo, but he is not the only person in danger who is making war on the mafia. If the government's priority really is to fight the mafias, it must take a clear position, also because Professor Fiandaca's statements came out that the state-mafia negotiation was legitimate, but the government did not take any position on this statement. On the other hand, I believe that the government should make a strong choice both in the answers it gives here in the Chamber and in the acts it does in general. I am referring not only to the case of Di Matteo but also to other people who are fighting for the state, who are not only threatened with death but, as we know, have been sentenced to death. If the government does not make a clear choice of field for legality and for the fight against mafias, when these people will die - because this will happen, because they are condemned and not threatened - I would like to know if the government will do the minutes of silence that are usually observed in this House without having done anything specifically. In fact, even if the device arrived in Palermo, it turns out to all of us that it is still in the garage and that it is not used, so another time the bureaucracy blocks the protection of Nino Di Matteo. We have not received any answers to this question either. What's the point of sending the device if it's left in the garage?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u38	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Madam President, I thank the Government and repeat by dividing my speech into two parts. I am pleased that the bomb jammer has been assigned, according to the news I have, from May 10th (and not from May 8th). They are in contact with some Sicilian associations that are concerned with raising awareness of the fight against the mafia and one of them, called Scorta civica, continues essentially to serve as guardian angel to this servant of the State. I am convinced, in any case, that the fight against the Mafia must be a choral event for all the people, and that therefore we must not concentrate and condense on one person all the risks of a possible and dreaded response from organized crime. To do this, I am convinced that the government must have spasmodic attention to the subject, without delay. And now I come to the second part of my answer. It has been months before these questions were answered. We consider that these questions have been tabled by me, as well as by my colleagues, at the request of people close to these issues (in this case I was talking about that association) and we all know how a delay, compared to an organization which, unfortunately, has shown to be very effective and efficient in its work, can generate harmful consequences, as unfortunately has happened on other occasions. Having said that, I hope, like the colleague who preceded me, that a much faster and much more ready attitude on the part of the Government, because the responsibility it has is enormous; a more ready attitude both at the operational level and at the political level as a whole, in rejecting some thesis that seem to consider acceptable the presence of the mafia in our country and the fact that with it you can come to terms with; which - as we all know and we are sure that the Government also thinks - is absolutely unacceptable and to be rejected, especially to give a message to all those servants of the State who, at different level, find themselves obliged to respond to this threat, looking it often in the eyes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u41	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am fortunately listening to you from outside, no, Mr Vice-Minister, I am absolutely not satisfied with your reply because there is no trace of an answer to my questions. You have done nothing but fuel the misinformation that Minister Alfano has carried out for months, putting at risk the life of one of the most representative men of the Italian judiciary. You know, Mr. Deputy Minister, if there's any TNT, if there's any explosive, it's not enough for cameras or any other kind of security device. A specific device is needed: as you called it well, the bomb jammer, which is used precisely to disable the possible use of remote controls. You specifically said that there was a screening by a pseudo expert group. Well, my question did not even read it: there was an attached answer that was given by the Minister of Defence precisely on the use of the bomb jammer, which Italy has been using for years. Then, specify the typology (there are those of small and medium range) - and in this case it will be my care to present possibly another act of inspection union (surely there will be more speed in the answer on his part, since he has the data in hand) - and tell me what these prescriptions are, because if the device is in the hands of the escort of Dr. Di Matteo, and for any reason can not be used, we want information. On the other hand, the Minister of Defence responded in detail by saying that the whole process of evaluation of the bomb jammer was done in a specific way at the Centre interforze studi per le applicazioni militari a San Piero a Grado (Pisa): they tell me that in a precise manner it responds to the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 81 of 2008 regarding the matter of health protection. They are all data we had; then, why wait months and months? If you don't talk to another Ministry, or why does it end up uncomfortable to take a specific position? Minister Alfano has issued some statements that have been quoteted and have not even been denied by the Minister himself, who says that it is impossible that if a car passes with Di Matteo equipment such as pacemakers should be interrupted for some heart patients or other equipment in hospitals. Mr. Deputy Minister, they must be denied immediately. If this instrument is harmful, then I wonder: have the military who used it in Afghanistan been exposed to a health problem? Yes or no? You need to discuss this with the Ministry of Defence immediately, and you need to give us citizens answers right away, if you have them. Otherwise ask for comfort from us. As some colleagues said earlier, we have been on the road for months, together with associations, to get what we all know can be achieved. Only in the case of Di Matteo there was the technical problem: only in the case of a man! Why, Mr. Deputy Minister? He didn't say that. Why? That is the question with which I close my speech: why, Mr Vice-Minister? Why wait a year and a half before granting this equipment (we don't even know what criteria and arrangements)? Why, Mr. Deputy Minister? Why?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u44	PEPE (Mixed Greens). Mr. Deputy Minister, better late than never, but late is not good. I am satisfied, although I am concerned now that doubts have also been dissolved in Italy. You first illustrated the electromagnetic exposure and pointed out that there are problems related to peacemakers and various instruments. I doubt that when the Heads of State of other nations come, they do not have bomb jammers that probably result in much greater exposure to what we have submitted to the Palermons. In any case, I repeat that the list is still long, but the urgency - I believe - is the same for other servants of the State. We hope that we can protect others as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u45	Following is question 3-00674 on the suspension of protection measures for Colonel Sergio De Caprio. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with the question on the agenda, Senator Di Biagio asks for clarification on the protection measures assigned to the Colonel of the Arm of the Carabinieri Sergio De Caprio and, moreover, asks to know what initiatives the Government intends to take in order to revise the discipline of the current program of protection of witnesses. As you know, protection measures are only taken after an in-depth assessment of the actual level of threat. In addition, constant monitoring of the risk profile of protected subjects is ensured. This assessment is carried out at a double level: in the peripheral area, with the proposal of the prefect on the basis of the findings of the technical police coordination meeting, and in the headquarters, for the final determinations of the Central Office for Personal Security Interforces. In this respect, the Central Office for Interforces is responsible for collecting and analysing information on risk situations communicated by prefects, as well as information and security agencies and police departments. Once the investigation and evaluation activity has been completed, the UCIS shall, in the event that the conditions are met on the basis of the level of risk established, take the necessary protective and supervisory measures, or amend or revoke those already adopted. I would also like to point out that the assessment of risk exposure is the subject of periodic and systematic review aimed at verifying the continuing need for the planned tutorial equipment and its adequacy in the light of actual needs and investigative developments. With regard to the position of the Colonel of the Carabinieri Arm Sergio De Caprio, I recall that he is currently the recipient of a fourth-level device, which is protected by an unprotected car. The withdrawal of the protection service, widespread by the press but never actually carried out, was the subject of a proposal to the UCIS on 26 November 2013, following the periodic review of the protection measure applied, as the information collected did not highlight any current elements in the relevant risk profile. However, following a subsequent review of the issue, carried out on 23 January 2014 in the Provincial Committee for Public Order and Security at the Prefecture of Rome, there have been elements which have led to a consensus on the need for the continuation of the tutorial system, which therefore, I repeat, has not been interrupted in fact. Recently, on 27 April, the existing protective equipment was reconfirmed, following a periodic review. With regard to witnesses of justice and their family members, I assure you that the Central Commission for the definition and application of the special protection measures and the Central Protection Service are strongly committed to protecting their safety and to ensuring that access to protection programmes does not lead to a deterioration in the quality of life, despite the restrictions that the same programme may require for understandable safety reasons. As part of the protection measures, the Central Service is responsible, in particular, for dealing with situations of difficulty and discomfort in which witnesses who, under the protection programme, are unable to continue to carry out their work or business activities can be found. And it is precisely on the employment front that there is an important step forward. By decree of the Minister of the Interior in agreement with the Minister for simplification and public administration of 18 December 2013, the regulation governing the recruitment of witnesses of justice by direct appointment in the public administration, with qualifications and functions corresponding to the degree of study and the professionalism possessed, was adopted in implementation of Law No 125 of 2013. I would like to stress that the application to witnesses of the right to compulsory placement in public administrations, with precedence, includes the same as those belonging to the protected categories, which are not subject to the assumptions established by the current legislation. In order to implement the regulatory framework, the Central Service, at the disposal of the Central Commission, has already begun the delicate tasks that concern about 300 witnesses to justice who have been granted special protection in place or in the past. This, although it cannot be an absolute guarantee of recruitment, is the tangible signal of a dutyful attention to those who have made an essential contribution to justice. In this regard, I would like to point out, on the one hand, that recently the region of Sicily, in implementation of Regional Law No 22 of 2014 and the Memorandum of Understanding signed on 26 November 2014 with the Central Commission for the definition and application of the special protection measures, has taken 13 witnesses of justice who have testified in proceedings initiated at the procures of the Sicilian region; on the other hand, that the Italian regions have announced, through the President of the Conference of the Regions, their willingness to identify for the witnesses, to the outcome of the reconnaissance of the options that they are expressing in these months to the Central Service, a framework of job opportunities in the places where they have relocated their home, in order to avoid new traumas and new difficulties deriving from further eradications from the new social and relational contexts that the witnesses themselves and their families have realized during their stay. The recruitment of witnesses to justice in public administrations is an important novelty, but it is not the only measure that we intend to take. With a recent meeting at the National Anti-Mafia Directorate, we started a direct dialogue between the District Prosecutors and the Central Commission to give renewed impetus to the fruitful integration between the different competences, with a view to identifying the interventions useful to improve the protection system. In addition, we have put in place a working group - composed of magistrates, experts in administrative law and public management, economics scholars and psychologists - that is concluding the study of the protection system for which it has been entrusted, addressing issues of interest from a different and innovative angle. We are confident that the results of the group's work will soon be made available, which will contain various proposals to adapt, innovate and update our legislation and to make administrative actions to protect witnesses more robust. On the merits, we need to promote the permanence of witnesses in the places of residence, in order to make their testimony even more effective and to modify the conditions of those contexts that appear particularly difficult, because dominated by the presence of organized crime. Basically, we need to introduce regulatory instruments to ensure that witnesses have the maximum protection in their places of residence, by making available to them all the instruments that today relate exclusively to the holders of the special protection programme. In this context, we must, in particular, resolve the problem of entrepreneurs, economic operators who, because of their witnessing, find themselves exercising their activities in particularly difficult conditions and in particularly hostile contexts. It is therefore necessary to identify those procedures, in accordance with Community law, which could facilitate the direct assignment of orders, the execution of works by the public administration, in order to be compatible with the rules of competition, the market and transparency. If necessary, a specific measure to be notified to the European Commission should be defined so that an exemption regime can be applied for those economic operators who demonstrate their willingness to oppose criminal organisations. Moreover, it is our intention to strengthen the Central Service and provincial units also through the continuous professional updating of the police workers who assist the witnesses, considering that the delicacy of the functions assigned to them often involves a weariness in the relationships and in the ability to maintain the level of sensitivity and attention that the witnesses of justice and their relatives deserve. The above considerations allow me to conclude that the action of the Government has been and will remain strongly oriented towards the effective respect of the rights of the protected persons and the quality of the services that are rendered to them, despite the awareness that in the management of such a complex system disservices and anomalies can occur, that we must know how to correct with readiness. We will continue to commit every resource of ours to make the state's action in support of witnesses more effective. We therefore believe that we can also overcome the paradox of a quality of the protection system perceived in medium to low terms, in the face of the extraordinary financial and instrumental investments and the equally extraordinary mobilization of human resources that the State itself ensures in favour of the witnesses of justice.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u49	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, kind Vice-Minister, I am comforted by your statements and thank you for the elements of great interest you have wished to share with this House, which allow us to understand the excellent work that your Dicastery is doing and which cling to a delicate matter, which cyclically bounces back to the honors of the chronicles, and then vanishes into oblivion, often overwhelmed by other priorities. The problem of the assignments of escort and security services to particularly exposed profiles has been the subject of investigation especially in recent years, when, in the face of a general spending review and an invitation to sobriety, they have caused a stir, just as in the case of this case, the revocation to operators that really in my opinion deserve it, not only from the regulatory point of view, but also and above all from the human and social value. With this act I did not want to enter in the albeit just controversy on the easy concessions of the escort services, that turns out to weigh on the treasury for beyond 250 million euros (between car, staff, attached and connected). On the other hand, I wanted to focus attention on the obstacles on which the system sometimes lies, leaving out clearly paradoxical situations and holes of social indignation. As you yourself have pointed out, pursuant to Law No 133 of 2 July 2002, the National Public Safety Authority has been given the competence to take measures and give directives for the protection and protection of personnel exposed to particular risk situations; therefore, the assessment should not be subject to discretionary considerations. Beyond the powers of individual departments and offices and the subdivisions into levels of protection to be ensured, however, there is a priority to ensure an adequate level of protection for those who carry out particularly sensitive public activities or those who are exposed to risks of various kinds relating to their personal and family security. Although these assumptions are understandable and deserving, the current situation has shown us a sometimes complex scenario, in which, alongside paradoxical situations such as the suspension of the escort to the captain "Ultimo," there has been a certain liberality in the erogare of security services to profiles, in the first place also political and parliamentarians (I do not make the list, because I am not part of the category of populists), clearly not fall within the sensibility of the norm in this matter. The case of Captain "Ultimo," the subject of the act, is in my opinion the metaphor of a system worthy of attention. A system in which a man of state, the officer of the Carabinieri who arrested Riina in 1993, an indisputable example of the fight against the mafia, is actually left alone to face the inevitable risks that its merit has brought. The escort service to those who have been exposed to the pressures and threats of malavitousness due to their commitment to the exercise of their duties is an indispensable right, Mr Deputy Minister, to which the rule of law must take charge and through which a safeguard mechanism is put in place for operators who, on behalf of that same State, have put their safety at risk. Therefore, it must disregard any principle of discretion, preferring clear parameters within which to apply the discipline. The failure of these premises, Mr. Deputy Minister, risks appearing as a signal of weakening the state towards the criminal forces, thus expressing the awareness of the inconsistency of the instruments of justice available to the institutions vis-à-vis the mafias. Furthermore, the excessively discretionary nature of the concessions of the security service would be detrimental to the deterrent nature of the safeguard of safety granted to the men of state. As I begin to conclude, I welcome with confidence what you have said, Mr Vice-Minister, about the future prospects of this sector, sure that the application certainty in such a sensitive area is no longer called into question, protecting those profiles that have given so much for the State, and then being mocked at being abandoned at the most difficult time.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u50	The following is Question 3-01452 on protective measures for the magistrates of the Latin court. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u51	Madam President, with the question on the agenda, Senator Moscardelli and Senator Capacchione put to the attention of the Minister of the Interior the intimidating facts which, last November, concerned Dr. Lucia Aielli, judge of the Latin court, asking to know what measures they intend to take to protect the security of the aforementioned magistrate and his other colleagues exposed in the fight against organised crime in the Province of Latina. Dr. Aielli, it should be remembered, was a member of the panel of judges in the well-known Damascus 2 trial, concluded with several convictions for mafia-style associative crimes, then became definitive in September, following the judgment of Cassazione. Last November 19, four mortuary posters appeared in Latina announcing its "premature disappearance" and the date of its commemorative ceremony, which would be scheduled for November 28. Previously, the magistrate had suffered two attempts of abusive access to his own house: the first, last 12 October, when the police had to intervene due to a warning for suspicious noises, finding on the back of the house some fragments of glass and a broken bulb; the second, the next day, when the husband of the same denounced an attempt at theft inside the house. Both these episodes, according to the Latin police station, are ascribed to attempts at theft not attributable to actions of threat against the judge or his family. The intimidation of Judge Aielli was placed on the agenda of two police coordination meetings held at the Latin Prefecture on 25 and 27 November. During these meetings, it was agreed to implement a fourth level arrangement, implemented pursuant to Article 8 of the Ministerial Decree of 28 May 2003, supplemented by a radio-connected surveillance service at the home and the school attended by the daughters. The tutorial device, initially valid until 28 February, was further extended and is still active. More generally, I would like to inform you that, to protect other magistrates in service within the Province of Latina, there are two individual protective measures and a general radio-connected surveillance service.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u54	CAPACCHIONE (PD). Mr. Deputy Minister Bubbico, in thanking you for the information provided, I would nevertheless like to invite you to a particular vigilance on the Province of Latina, a city about which very little is said about the national chronicles, but which has also recently been hit, for example, by the murder of a blogger in Formia and which suffers the influence of the organized criminality both Roman, specifically, and of the Calabrian one, which has implanted itself in the area. Precisely the malavit connected to the Roman and the Casamonica family has dealt with and takes care of Judge Aielli in his trials and is actively dealing with the prosecutor of the Republic of the city, given the particular rise of violent episodes, even of small entities, which are however symptomatic of a attention and a vitality of the two particularly insidious organizations that operate in the area. I therefore call for further supervision, greater qualification of the area's investigative activity and a strengthening of the means which at present seem to be somewhat scarce.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u55	The following is the question 3-01473 on an unauthorized demonstration in Murisengo (Alessandria). The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u56	Madam President, Senators Borioli and Fornaro put forward a question about an initiative held on 16 October in the Municipality of Murisengo, during the 47th edition of the Truffle Fair: in the square of a private farmhouse located in an area adjacent to the place of the gastronomic event, fifteen members belonging to three different cultural associations - 77o Lupi Solitari, Fiamme Nere and Associazione Gruppo Progetto 900 - staged a historical re-enactment, wearing uniforms of fascist and Nazi militias, complete with fake or decommissioned armament. The initiative, organized by the aforementioned associations that deal with modeling, research and historical re-enactments, was announced on 2 September last to the mayor and station of the Carabinieri of Murisengo, with a communication in which it was referred - precisely - only to a historical re-enactment, with the presence of groups in historical uniforms. On the basis of the findings, the representation, which provided for the presence of civilian figures, soldiers of the Italian Social Republic and partisans of the National Liberation Committee and the brigade Garibaldi, intended to recall a war episode of the partisan war that occurred in the area in 1944, that is, the assault on the command of a partisan group by soldiers of the Republican National Guard. On November 16 there was, however, only one partisan with a red scarf around the neck, which later moved away from the place. According to the organizers, the absence of partisan figures would have been determined by the fact that they should have come, in particular, from the areas of Tortone and Novese affected the previous day by the known alluvial events. Also in the morning of the 16th, the command station of the carabinieri after receiving some complaints from the visitors of the fair about the presence of the figures with the Nazi fascist uniforms, promptly notified the mayor of what was happening. The latter immediately canceled the historical event and the organizers, after having promptly placed the equipment and disused the uniforms, have gone away. The gastronomic fair then continued without disturbing public order nor were there any episodes of threat or insult. With regard to the facts, the police station has sent an information to the prosecutor of the Republic to the court of Vercelli, for possible rehearsal profiles. To date, no complaints and complaints have been lodged about the incident in question. Finally, I inform you that on the day following the event, one of the promotional associations of the initiative, 77° Lupi solitari, sent a letter of apology to the municipal administration and published on the net, confirming the non-political intentions of a missuccessful historical event. The episode mentioned in the question gives me the opportunity to ensure that the Ministry of the Interior follows closely throughout the national territory the evolution of phenomena characterized by political intolerance or forms of racial discrimination, with particular reference to the activity of extremist movements. The police are constantly monitoring and collecting information about these movements, aimed at taking the slightest signal of possible disruption of public order and security and at intercepting any attempt to deviate from the rules of law and peaceful coexistence. In this context, the places of aggregation and the activities of members of the extremist groups of the opposite faction are constantly under careful supervision.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u59	Borioli (PD). I would like to thank the Deputy Minister for his reply, for which I am pleased. I would just like to stress the sensitivity of one aspect that has moved us to present this question, linked to the fact, as the Deputy Minister has just reminded us, that to some extent this episode has not been exactly understandable to a part of the population that has had the opportunity to come across it. Bearing in mind that that is an area from a certain point of view absolutely not accustomed to having to compare with representations of this tenor, that can be attributable to the types of street theatre or to the historical re-enactment (of course I do not know exactly the nature of the cultural associations that promoted it), the recommendation, which I think has been also received by the local organs and by the same mayor, is that manifestations of this type in a tragically interested area, especially in the autumn of 1944, by episodes of fierce retaliation with deaths among the civil populations precisely by the Nazis evoke a particular sensitivity that must be handled with care. However, I record the response that reduces the phenomenon and also reassures that the weapons were not actually working and the partisan figures were not there not because before they passed on arms - excuse the joke - but because first, unfortunately for them, involved in the alluvial events of neighbouring territories. It therefore seems to me that the Vice-Minister's answer has brought this back to its proper terms. I hope that from this point of view the mayor and the local bodies in the future will at least create a framework for adequate information for the people.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u60	Following is the question 3-01266 on the adequacy of controls in the airport area of Fiumicino (Rome). The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with the question on the agenda, Senators Gasparri and Bernini put to the attention of the Government the question of the efficiency of border controls at Fiumicino airport, especially in view of the high level of social alarm caused by Islamic terrorism and the phenomenon of foreign fighters. In particular, the senators ask the Ministry of the Interior to clarify what was denounced by a police union, for which last year would have reached the airport of Fiumicino at least 500 Algerian citizens of whom they would have lost track. It should be noted that attempts to enter Italy illegally are carried out by Algerian citizens of a young age who arrive at Leonardo da Vinci airport exclusively through Alitalia scheduled flights from Algiers or Istanbul (there are a total of ten of them per day), having as an apparent final destination of the trip an extra- Schengen country. In fact, taking advantage of the stop for boarding on the extra- Schengen flight, they try to escape through the most disparate devices. The most commonly used technique is the unlawful opening of passenger rooms' safety doors which, as such, are alarmed but cannot be locked. In this way the Algerians reach the areas of maneuvering of the aircraft, the internal routes of sliding of the airport chair and, finally, the perimeter fence of the airport, giving rise to situations of extreme danger from the point of view of airport safety and air transport. In order to effectively combat this illegal migratory flow, Fiumicino's air border police have taken a number of measures, including, in particular, the strengthening of controls within the airport and the maneuvering yards and the identification of some operational solutions shared with Alitalia. At the same time, in view of the incisiveness and complexity of the phenomenon, the Department of Public Security has sent repeated, specific reports to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and international cooperation and has also started direct contacts with the Algerian embassy in Italy, urging, for the aspects of their respective competence, the adoption of interventions aimed at curbing the departure of potential migrants at the origin. Given that such measures have not proved to be decisive, the border police requested and obtained from the company Aeroporti di Roma, which manages the airport, the setting up of a special transit room, operating from 13 October 2014, in which are hosted those Algerian citizens who are considered to undergo more in-depth border investigations, having been considered, to a first expeditive evaluation of the specialized police operators, as subject to risk of irregular entry into Italy. The structure has been associated, in the hourly period from seven o'clock in the morning to midnight, with a surveillance service involving the use of a significant contingent of police personnel. From the date of establishment of the hall, October 13, 2014 and until May 31 last, Algerian citizens in transit airport to Fiumicino and subject to controls were about 13,925; of them about 4,475 were taken to the hall to be then interviewed by operators specialized in virtue of the Border Investigation Unit, for the purpose of ascertaining the motivations of the journey and the real final destinations, as well as the adoption of the measures of the case. The adoption of this containment measure, which is still in force, has had the effect of almost total zeroing of the phenomenon. From the data it emerges that the Algerian passengers rendered unavailable from the constitution of the transit room have been only 9, against the 246 cases of irreperibility recorded in the course in 2014, until 12 October. As you can see, these are important results, obtained thanks to the work carried out daily on site by the border police, in synergy with the personnel of the airport security device, composed of units of the State Police, the Carabinieri's weapon and the Finance Guard, and with the reinforcement contingent that daily the Department of Public Security sends to the Roman port of call. I also want to represent that, at the same time, the border police are working with the judicial authority, in particular with the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Civitavecchia, providing an up-to-date information framework on the issues under consideration and the measures put in place to counter their evolution. As far as the specific request of the questioners is concerned, concerning the identity, number and nationality of the passengers who have become irretrievable, I represent that the Algerian citizens who travel on the Alitalia company lines are all holders of a valid travel document and have the necessary documentation to justify their transit through the Roman port of call, while it is not necessary, according to current Community regulations, that they be provided with a specific airport transit visa. Their personal data, as inserted in the passenger lists, are immediately made available by Alitalia and used by the border operators responsible for the specific controls. Therefore, in the event that Algerian passengers arbitrarily depart from the airport, the border police are always counting on their identity and number. I conclude by ensuring that the surreptitious transit of Algerian passengers to Leonardo da Vinci Airport will continue to be subject to intensive controls by the border police, with a view to combating irregular immigration and preventing the risk of terrorist infiltration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u64	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to thank Deputy Minister Bubbico for the information he has provided. When this question was tabled, the situation was probably more obscure than was described now by Vice-Minister Bubbico, although I must say - and in this case I speak for the petition signed not only by my colleague Gasparri, but by the Autonomous Trade Union Confederation of Police (CONSAP) that, as the Deputy Minister recalled, has denounced the presence \absence of 500 Algerian citizens in transit - that the indication of numbers provided by Vice-Minister Bubbico is frankly still unclear to me. There was talk of 13,000 Algerian citizens in transit, of whom only 4,000 were checked in the transit room prepared on the basis of the agreement that was made, and of which she spoke, with Alitalia and with the air border police. Evidently, especially in the face of a situation of rising security alarm due, as she rightly recalled, to the terrorist matrix and illegal immigration, these deployed forces, which the Deputy Minister has perhaps indicated more with a diagnosis approach than with definitive therapy, cannot be sufficient. You have spoken of nine Algerian citizens who are out of control, but it is clear that these numbers need to be checked and investigated further, also because, although this question is limited to the airport sector in the case of Rome airport, the problem is mainly related to the issue of foreign fighters, that is, of voluntary fighters who come from abroad, very often from European countries, and go abroad to be recruited, trained and then return. This is, therefore, a far wider problem. Therefore, it is certainly necessary to refer to the means of identification of airport passages, because, as the Deputy Minister rightly recalled, those passing through an air carrier must have a travel document, so their identity is easily traceable, but this does not mean that the person is recoverable or available and that he can be put in a position not to harm. This was the objective of our question and it is for this reason that, starting to conclude, referring not only to the important area of air transport of potentially dangerous aliens, but to a general immigration policy, in particular to illegal immigration within which we can infiltrate as a terrorist cell virus, we invite the Government to a threshold of particular attention. We have started a series of operations including Operation Mare nostrum, converted to Triton, on which two consecutive governments (the Letta Government and later the Renzi Government) reassured us, saying that they could not be a vehicle of transport of terrorist cells. They have told us this on the basis of data not particularly empirical, as far as we are aware, so much so that recently both the Minister of the Interior and the President of the Council have had the opportunity to speak differently about these boats. I know that I am shifting the focus of attention from the air carrier to that of the boats, but it is also a problem related to national security and, having the opportunity to speak with the Deputy Minister, I cannot fail to emphasise this aspect. I said that vigilance must be maximum, attention must be at the highest possible level, because from now on we cannot afford to make mistakes. The fact that even a core escapes, a group of people to a careful check of their intentions with respect to national security is a luxury that we cannot afford. We are now examining, together with the Deputy Minister and the representative of the Reference Government, the European Agenda on Immigration prepared by the European Commission and brought to the attention of the Council and the European Parliament. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude. BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, you are right: I have been drawn by an issue which is a top priority for us. I conclude by saying that this cannot be seen in isolation, because it is a combined action. This is a part of the problem that we consider only partially resolved, and for this reason we call on the Government to become increasingly vigilant and attentive to numbers, because the 13,000-4,000 gap shows that controls cannot be considered sufficient. Of course, we are talking about a much wider area of protection of national security on which we strongly call the attention of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u65	Question 3 01599 on the adoption of appropriate public security measures to combat neo-Nazi initiatives follows. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u66	Madam President, with the question on the agenda, Senator Bertorotta, together with other senators, draws the attention of the Minister of the Interior to an episode of anti-Semitism that took place in a park in Rome on Memory Day 2015. In fact, on January 27, the staff of the Carabinieri of the Parioli station in Rome, on signal received 112 by a journalist of the ANSA, alerted in turn by an anonymous phone call arrived in the editorial staff, intervened promptly in the Rabin Park where, along the metal fence, he found a billboard with a clearly anti-Semitic writing. The army of the weapon, after removing and seizing the billboard, informed the judicial authority of the incident. The investigations carried out to date have not allowed to acquire elements useful for the identification of the persons who have made such gesture, also because the area in question is not subject to video surveillance. On the following 29 January, the Carabinieri returned and seized, again along the fence of the park, a further billboard, probably in response to the previous one and attributable to an antagonistic political group. With regard to the control measures active in the Rabin Park, I inform you that the general radio surveillance is currently ensured by the Salario-Parioli Public Security Commission. There was no judicial follow-up to the other incident reported in the question, concerning the leafleting on the so-called Palestinian memory day, held on 27 January 2012 in Rome at the state high school "Tasso" by a group of adherents to the well-known movement of the extreme right Student struggle. On the other hand, it appears that, in the months following the fliering, the father of a student of the said high school has denounced to the judicial authority the repeated episodes of smearing the walls of the institute with writings of clear fascist matrix and stylized symbols, such as littoral bundles, assuming the existence of the extremes of the crime of apology of fascism. On a more general level, I assure you that the public security authorities and the police maintain a high level of attention in relation to the possible risk of incidents of political or racial intolerance that may affect the maintenance of public order and the security of citizens. In this context, and even in the objective difficulty of preventing any extemporaneous action, both the arrangements for ensuring greater control of the territory, with the priority of monitoring services of the objectives most exposed to risk, and the information services for the continuous monitoring of the activities of the most extremist political groups, are prepared and reviewed periodically in the technical coordination of the police forces. Again on the basis of a prior examination in the course of technical coordination, the above-mentioned preventive activities are intensified in conjunction with special occasions and in any case whenever the need arises.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u69	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr Vice-Minister, it is inevitable for me to reply, especially on a day like this, that you have seen 44 arrests in Rome, that - I assume - have caused both right-wing and left-wing politics to run short. The question will be asked which is the logical link that links my reply to the aforementioned answer (which specifically concerns a question concerning the exhibition of a racist and anti-Semitic banner in a municipal park of Rome) and the news appeared on all the newspapers of today - not only Italians - concerning bribes, monthly salaries, purchases of houses and hiring of relatives and friends in the cooperatives of Salvatore Buzzi, always managed in the shadow of Massimo Carminati. It seems, in fact, that the gip of Rome Flavia Costantini signed an order using a lot of ink since 44 people would be arrested at dawn by the Carabinieri of the ROS (of which 19 in prison and 25 to the housewives). Thus writes Republic, the 5 Star Movement does not invent it; all people accused of mob association, corruption, auction disturbance, false billing and fraudulent transfer of values, with the aggression of the mob modes. Do you think there's a banal crime? No, rather real, and, as the ROS writes, of an extraordinary danger. Mr. Deputy Minister Bubbico, you understand well that for the Romans, but not only, reading names like Mirko Coracatti, Giordano Tredicine, Luca Gramazio, Daniele Ozzimo, Angelo Scozzafava is not a great reading (of course I just mentioned a few for lack of time). But above all for a Sicilian like me who has submitted two questions, remained inside the drawer of some office of his Ministry, it is absolutely not pleasant to read that, among the 44 new arrests of the ROS in the new line of Mafia Capital - the second chapter of the operation "Mondo di mezzo" - there are also Salvatore Melolascina and Carmelo Parabita, advisors of the cooperative "La Cascina" which also deals with the management of meals of the migrant center of Mineo. Luckily, the Carabinieri's weapon has taken steps to search the Roman headquarters of the cooperative, otherwise, Deputy Minister, the real cards remained inside the drawers of some office in that office. Returning to the CARA of Mineo, the interceptions would reveal that system of corruption that already months ago I am the president from the Anticorruption Authority Raffaele Cantone had evidenced, and that of which I had asked account and reason, but I have not received answer. One cannot always be deaf, since the interceptions clearly reveal the system of corruption around the management of the CARA of Mineo and call into question the former president of the Province of Catania, current undersecretary of agricultural policies, Giuseppe Castiglione, the mayor of Mineo Aloisi and the summits of CARA... PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator, I would simply like to ask you to reply with reference to the question, not to anything else. BERTOROTTA (M5S). Yeah, but there's a connection; I'm getting to the point. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We don't understand. BERTOROTTA (M5S). I was saying, the summits of CARA, including Paolo Ragusa, president of "Sol Calatino" and Giovanni Ferrera, general manager of the consortium Calatino Terra of reception. The truth is that the Ministry of which you are a Deputy Minister has a bit of difficulty to admit that, despite Buzzi being held in Nuoro, since last December, so for about six months, the same is confirmed to be the creator of illicit trafficking that put upside down the honest world, like the one in which we believe and live in the 5 Star Movement. I must admit with all sincerity that all this does not surprise me, indeed it does not surprise any elector and citizen who is seen in the principles of the Movement of which I am proudly part. Mayor Marino probably doesn't even know that on January 27th, outside the Rabin Park of Rome, a banner with the inscription "Holocaust historical lie" was hung. Hitler for a thousand years. Mayor Marino probably does not know that that day in Rome there was an unprecedented offense against the millions of Jews, homosexuals, psychics, without distinction of sex or age, who were exterminated by the Gestapo in Auschwitz or Bergen-Belsen. Maybe the mayor Marino on the 27th was participating, as the first citizen, in some formal commemoration, but he was not informed that at the high school "Torquato Tasso" in the Parioli district of Rome, a group of neo-Nazis of Student Struggle circulated a provocative leaflet related to the day of Palestinian memory. I don't think the mayor of Rome knows anything about these events in his city. Or maybe we have to imagine that he's always unaware... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] President, it hasn't been five minutes yet.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u70	They passed because the microphone automatically turns off.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u71	BERTOROTTA (M5S). I don't think so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please don't question the automaticity of the instruments. At least this, please. BERTOROTTA (M5S). I'm finishing. Or perhaps we must imagine that he is always unaware of what Massimo Carminati does? The 5 Star Movement, although thanking for the answer to this question, reveals its disappointment, as it is unacceptable that a Premier, a Minister of the Interior, a mayor who happens to be part of the same political group, allow the middle world to become the world where the Italians live. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The questioning and questioning of the agenda is thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u72	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-460.ana.u73	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 9 June, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.21 a.m.
