ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u4	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.35 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 19, 657, 711, 810, 846, 847, 851 and 868, in the unified text proposed by the Commission. I remember yesterday's afternoon sitting when the general debate was over. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u9	Madam President, the rapporteur has followed the whole debate that took place yesterday and believes that he will select some of the issues raised for the importance of the issues and also for the balanced and comprehensive way in which they have been dealt with. I believe I give priority to the question of the importance of the term "material facts" referred to in Article 2621 and, in part, Article 2622 of the Civil Code. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u10	Colleagues, the rapporteur is addressing a number of issues raised during the general discussion and which will be discussed again in the examination of the amendments. It is therefore the interest of all senators to listen to his reply. I therefore ask you to lower the volume of the chatterbox. Please, Senator d'Ascola, I invite you to continue your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u11	Thank you, Madam President. I come back to the question that I had put at the center of my replica activity. On the other hand, it has been argued that the adjective'relevant', which appears in Article 2621 and, in part, in Article 2622, would pose questions of constitutionality. Of course, I am not going back to the question of constitutionality of a preliminary nature but, since the question is re-examined by means of amendments aimed at determining the deletion of the attribute of relevance, it is of a topical nature. In the meantime, I start from the many times evoked judgment n. 247 of 1989 of the Constitutional Court to point out, for a verse, its lack of usability to these ends and, on the other hand, to indicate that it does not constitute the term of comparison, at the level of constitutionality, of the relevant attribute. I'm counting on my first statement. The judgment, of course, poses a problem of constitutionality with reference to adjectives and attributes of a quantitative nature, but indeterminate, in the wake of an obvious constitutional jurisprudence that wants the limit between the forbidden and the allowed to be marked in a certain way by the legislator and that, therefore, does not discharge to the judge the decision to establish what is criminal with respect to what is not. Compared to such a sequence, Article 25 paragraph of our Constitution would hinder as well as Article 3 but, above all, the monopoly recognised exclusively under the law to establish what may be classified as a crime or not. That judgment affirms a much more complex principle than that which was, on the contrary, represented its contents. It says that it is not possible that the entire burden of serious criminal disvalue on indeterminate elements of a quantitative nature, having to consider, on the contrary, constitutional, a penal norm which makes use of quantitative elements, even if to be determined, but that, with reference to the disvalue of conduct, it is so rich and pregnant and constituted by elements that demarcate the allowed with respect to the prohibited to be found, already in terms of the disvalue of the conduct, sufficiently determined. Now, this rule can be accused of anything but indeterminate conduct. We have a rule that makes use of the expression "made" and, moreover, "material" and "relevant" - we will then see what the attribute "relevant" means - which is built entirely on an artificial conduct, concretely suitable to deceive; moreover, on the side of the subjective component of the fact, makes use of the adverb "consciously" which I will take into account from here to a few minutes, but which certainly completes the side of determining the conduct. It is therefore a standard, if anything, overdetermined from the point of view of its elements of structure, demonstrating a disvalue of conduct, already sufficient to determine it. As I said in the initial part of my speech, paradoxically, the speech made in relation to judgment No 247 of 1989 is totally useless and superfluous, because it implies that the expression'relevant' is interpreted as a non-numeric quantitative element, demonstrating an indefinite threshold, always of a quantitative type, which would put the judge in charge of determining beyond what quantitative level the conduct is punishable and, in conjunction with what quantitative level it is not. Therefore, the claim for effectiveness, which is an obstacle to judgment No 247 of 1989, starts from a unilateral interpretation of the attribute "relevant", assigning it precisely - I repeat for the last time - that function of indication of quantitative data aimed at discriminating the allowed by the criminally relevant. However, things are not at all in these terms and, precisely, I draw the attention of the Assembly to this adverb of certainty, since we, children of the theory of interpretation iuris, must start from the literal data to which the attribute of relevance is accompanied. Important is not an attribute of a noun such as "quantity', "measure' or "variation' - i.e. a demonstrative noun, which already refers to quantitative data itself - but is an attribute of the expression "material facts'. Therefore, to say that the expression "relevant" is to mean a watershed of a quantitative type, already determines a literal type conflict, because to be called "relevant" is not a quantity, but it is a fact. This important attribute is part of the wake of a consolidated and certain jurisprudence of our Constitutional Court in the matter of the principle of offensiveness, understood not only in the abstract sense - that is, the norm must contain evidence of the ability of the fact to offend - but also in concrete, requiring the Constitutional Court not only to write offensive rules, but also to the judge to interpret them in adherence, directing its interpretation to the principle of offensiveness. When one understands how the literal data would impose to do, that the attribute "relevant" is referring to a fact - that is, what is able to offend the legal good - and that, precisely, it must possess notes of materiality - principle that fits perfectly with the relational principle of offensiveness - one understands how the norm is organic: it evokes the need for a fact, it requires that it be material and, further, in the third bar, it requires that it be a relevant fact on the level of its ability to offend the legal good. This expression - which may be considered to be emphatic, repetitive and redundant, but not useless, insofar as the norm must clarify and avoid conflicts of interpretation - is supplemented by the expression "concretely suitable to mislead" which further underlines the materiality of an offensive conduct. On the other hand, the crimes of falsehood, within whose theory the false in the budget must inevitably be included, are all marked by the need to demonstrate further concretely the offensive capacity of the conduct. I would evoke dogmatic areas if I remembered not only the thought of illustrious criminalists like Marcello Gallo, therefore of the entire school of Turin, but also of other illustrious criminalists like Franco Bricola, who on the ground of the crimes of fake have reconstructed the theory of offense and the need to avoid that formal facts conform to the type are punishable, contrary to the need to identify, within the generalist category of facts conform to the type, only the one deserving of criminal intervention, that is, of the facts actually and concretely offensive and therefore such as to determine concretely that offense that makes the fact endowed with a real criminalistic pregnance; and, among other things, perfectly conform to the Constitution. As for the attribute of relevance, it would suffice to recall a norm that historically evokes it precisely on the level of offensiveness: the crime of false testimony where, within the facts seemingly conform to the type, we select only the false statements that are relevant because they really can offend the legal good of the administration of justice in its path of reconstruction of the facts as they actually have been realized, discarding from the cone of punishableness facts that in reality are not conform to the type at all. Therefore, if the interpretation of the relevant attribute related to material facts arises in the historical beehive of the principle of offensiveness, no problem of constitutionality can be posed because this attribute has the merit of reaffirming the circumstance that it does not punish facts seemingly conform to the type, but in reality not offensive, which in this context can be presented. It is clear that it will then be the interpretation of the judicial authority that will solve the problem. But there can be no reduction in those simple assessments, estimates, those false by mistake that are not able to determine any offense of the legal good, I would say those false irrelevant, in order to demonstrate by the use of an adjective contrary to "relevant" precisely the demonstration of the offence involved by the use of the adjective "relevant." In short, "relevant" is not any fact, a fact apparently consistent with the type, but not offensive. It is precisely what the opposition claims must be a fact of false social communications, a fact that is actually and concretely capable, in a significant way, of misleading the recipients of false social communications and that therefore, even in the context of a crime built as a crime of danger, poses itself as a crime of real danger. Therefore, appropriate conduct, concretely proportionate to the offence. I do not speak, although I have a great deal to say on this matter, on the question of constitutionality concerning the reference to a rule which was first promulgated and published then, and which is therefore enforceable, but which has not yet entered into force, because the amendments do not touch on this aspect, which was touched on by the pronunciation of this House, which considered the question of constitutionality to be unfounded, we could say that which had been referred to in the second question of constitutionality. On the other hand, I would like to address a question that yesterday was the subject of some paradoxically negative considerations - and let me say this adverb - posed by an opposition that called for a more guaranteeing structure of the text of the norm, entering into conflict, this part of the opposition, with the same premises from which it started. Well, the adverb 'consciously', as I said in the Commission, but I very humbly allow myself to refer it also to the House, carries out a further important selective function of punishableness, because in the meantime, as a perspective to which the adverb might tend, it could be useful to exclude the slightest form of maliciousness, i.e. the so-called eventual maliciousness, evoking not an awareness of the risk of an event, but saying that the subject must be perfectly aware of the fact, therefore not of a risk of an event, but of his conduct. The adverb thus works in the direction of reducing the scope of the standard and certainly not in the opposite direction of dilation of its application. Moreover, as is well known, the dole has a substantial side, but also a procedural side, like all the components of the abstract cases of crime. The adverb implies and in a certain sense requires a broad demonstration of the awareness of the fact and therefore also acts as evidence, as an indication of a certain need to demonstrate the awareness of the fact. Thus, in a certain sense, it further marks what is a general, certainly existing, obligation to state the reasons of the court on all the components of the case, including those of a subjective nature. I shall conclude with a reference to all those amendments which relate to the increase in sanctions. In the course of the discussion, it was frequently said that the effectiveness of general prevention related to the penalty increases is doubtful, and therefore there would be no penalty increase of any effect and function which would not, from the point of view of deterrence, give any result. I agree with one point: we do not have scientific evidence of a correlation and of the measure, among other things, of this correlation between the increases in sanctions and the possible deterrence from committing such crimes. Therefore, with no percentage statistical data available, we are not in a position to say whether an increase in penalties actually has a deterrent function and to what extent as to the possible commission of offences of the same kind. I propose a reflection on the fact that the increase in sanctions, however, does not find its proper justification for criminality only on the side of general prevention, but finds its justification even more historical and dating back to the pay side. The rapporteur means that the more intolerance and rejection of certain crimes grow in society, the greater the justification for sanctions increases. The legislator then, in the hierarchy of the relevant, in selecting the facts must also be sensitive to the growing social rejection that is manifested against certain facts of crime. The more the social reaction to certain crimes grows, the more the penalty increase is justified; I repeat, not on the side of general prevention, but on the side of pay, of what justifies, according to a saying that goes back to 1500 and Ugo Grozio, the increase of the penalty treatment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Ascola, you should come to the conclusion. Mr D'Ascola, rapporteur. I'm finishing. There's more. Until a few years ago we considered the crimes against public administration as included in the broad beehive of Article 97 of the Constitution, that is, due to the good performance and impartiality of the administration. Today the crimes against the public administration show a further multi-suffering side: one discovers the connection of these crimes with assets such as the national economy, the international image of our country, our nation, with serious repercussions on the state of the national economy. And then it would be enough already this second, but not only observation to affirm a further principle that finds a perfect correspondence in the constitutional jurisprudence: if the crime is multi-offensive, if it turns out that it offends additional legal assets, the increase in sanctions is justified on this second side too.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u12	We address a greeting to the students of the Technical Institute for Tourism and of the Artistic High School "Filippo Brunelleschi" in Acireale, in the province of Catania, who are today visiting the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u13	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u14	Madam President, Senators, first of all I would like to thank the members of the Justice Commission who have helped to draw up, in any case, to discuss and amend, and - in my opinion - to improve the regulatory text today when we consider it for approval. I would also like to thank all the senators who have spoken in the debate because I believe they have contributed to the reflection and deliberation that will come from here shortly. I believe that this debate, as well as the work carried out in the Commission, is justice to a controversy which has been brought against this branch of Parliament accused of denial or will not to address a relevant issue such as corruption. I think it is a wrong, unjust campaign, which ignores a given, namely that a normative text becomes law when it composes the conditions for that text to be supported by the numbers necessary to become law. And this happens when political contradictions are resolved that are not the result of someone wanting to fight corruption and someone not, but are due to the fact that in a deliberating body there may be different ideas about how to fight corruption. I attribute to the Government the merit of having re-established different positions, starting from its own position which was the one deliberated in the Council of Ministers on 29 August. It has been pointed out that since - as I think you know - I am convinced of the need to overcome bicameralism, it would be a contradiction to the fact that I argued that some of the measures approved by the House of Deputies could be improved in the parliamentary passage to the other branch of Parliament. It is, in my opinion, a paradoxical point because we legislate with the constitutional structure we have and not with another. On the contrary, it seems to me that those who take this view reproach me for not having already abolished bicameralism, and I believe that this is frankly an unfair rebuke. I am aware that increasing pain is not enough and sometimes it is useless. And I am also aware that sometimes the easiest way to exorcise deep phenomena of serious social alarm is either the tightening of penalties or the extension of the area of criminal law. It is a risk that we always run, when we are dealing with issues that are raised by the news, and that becomes even more serious in times of social crisis, such as what we are going through. It is a risk that is also induced by the fact that the possibility of engaging in some topics gives great media prominence. But has this risk, which we have taken, produced a text that goes in this direction or has this risk been averted? Did we just tighten our pains or did we do something different? I believe that this risk, which we have taken, has been averted, because we have not merely tightened our pains. However, a reflection must also be made on the subject of penalties, taking up the rapporteur's arguments. During this twenty-year period, the penalties for crimes against property have been greatly increased. There has been - and I rightly believe - an increase in the number of criminal offences linked to organised crime, with the consequences and actions of censorship by the Constitutional Court and the Court of Cassation, including in the area of drug use and trafficking. However, the penalties for crimes against the public administration have stood still for a very long time. Does this mean that there was no growing social reprobation against these crimes? I don't think so. It means, in my opinion, that the legislator had made, in some way, a choice of field, which we wanted to question. Of course, the Severino law has intervened in this area and I believe it has achieved results. However, inconsistencies remained, because the scissors between some less serious (or traditionally considered less serious) crimes and the more serious one than corruption in court proceedings are a relatively small scissor. We have intervened to record a fact: what is more serious, at a time like this, than the behaviour of those who, by performing public functions, betray the community in order to achieve improper enrichment? And we have given an answer to that question. Of course, criminal law must be characterized by effectiveness and appropriateness; but it also has a symbolic value and must also play the role of recording the social reprobation that, at a given historical stage, is determined against a behavior. We are saying, by approving this bill, that in this historical moment who gets corrupted or who corrupts betrays the country. That is the fundamental point that we want to stress. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Buemi and Bianconi.]] And I believe that we do so with a will, but it is that - and here I come to address the rest of the importance that has been made - to give more effective and more appropriate tools in the fight against economic and mafia crime and in the fight against corruption. When we started this journey, international organizations signaled us empty spaces. President Finocchiaro is right: I am absolutely convinced that it is wrong to represent our country as a country without tools for the fight against corruption. The simple proof is that many investigations show that there are effective instruments that allow us to intervene in corruptive phenomena, but the international organizations - not a part or the whole judiciary, not a part of the public opinion or a part of the press - pointed out that there were two serious shortcomings in our country: the first was the absence of the tool of self-recycling; the second was a substantial emptying of the crime of fake in the budget. By intervening, first in the text on the return of capital and today with this measure, we fill these two gaps. With the crime of self-laundering we introduce a tool that allows us to avoid infiltration into the legal economy of the criminal economy; which also allows us to avoid the consequences of previous legislation, which meant that some illegals essentially caused an enrichment against which it was impossible to exercise the punitive power of the State. Today, however, with self-recycling some of the behaviours that are prescribed for pre-conditional crimes can be prosecuted through this type of instrument. With false financial statements, we do not simply protect society from conducts which are the precondition for corrupting activity; we protect the market and the national economy and we introduce a transparency element for foreign investment as well. We're just on 416- bis to tighten our pains? No. We have rebuilt a figure that takes into account the evolution of organised crime. Organized crime is no longer just what has grown and developed in our country. It is often made of international networks, of the crossroads of mafias that also come from other continents, and today 416- bis, as it has been redefined, takes into account this historical evolution. We have introduced tools that encourage the collaboration of those who have been the protagonist of the corruptive pact. President Palma wonders who will ever break this pact in exchange for a choice of the legislator that allows to mitigate the penalty; basically he manifests a doubt - so I understand, otherwise I apologise - about the possible effectiveness of an instrument like this. I have to say that, in this case, not only a premium legislation in this direction has been urged by many supranationals, but the experience of the fight against organised crime tells us that instruments that encourage the breakup of the pact, which is the presupposition of criminal activity, are also the condition for defeating networks that are no longer simply the result of a synallagmatic relationship between corrupt and corrupter, but are much more complex and make it possible today to say that between mafia and corruption there is a substantial overlap for the ways in which the phenomenon manifests itself. I have listened with interest, and without any spirit of closure, to an emphasis that President Palma has made, that is, that of the need to take account of the fact that by now corruptive phenomena develop at different levels, in different fields and also with different phenomenologies. I must say that I did not take a parallel initiative and a proposal that worked on the distinction - if I understand correctly - between great corruption and ordinary corruption, let us call it that. If there were a reflection in this direction I would have no problem accepting it and taking it into account. I believe that everything that allows us to adapt our system not so much to the needs of the public as to the evolution of phenomena of a criminal nature, must be done, implemented and educated. From this point of view, I find the constant reference to terms such as down and up, and the use of expressions such as down compromises and upward compromises inconsistent. I say this because I believe that all the rules are basically a compromise between different requirements: all the rules take account of a punitive requirement, but also of the fact that the State cannot have such an invasive function as to cross over into the police state; all the rules must take into account the fact that on the one hand the transparency of the market must be ensured, but on the other hand we cannot build instruments which, in the end, prevent market activity in the exercise of controls. All the rules, within themselves, are the meeting point of requirements of a different nature, which are sometimes manifested by different policy areas, sometimes are contained in the very soul of those who propose the norm. From this point of view, the rise and the fall cannot be an assessment of how high the penalty is, but it must be of what is reasonable and functional is the whole system that can be produced: I believe that we have managed to improve and make more reasonable and more functional the system of repression that we have. As I have said in several interviews, but I do not like to be self-employed, I am absolutely convinced that repression is only a part of the fight against corruption; perhaps even a decisive part and I would like to say that despite the fact that reaching a fundamental step would recommend a certain propagandistic emphasis. But the fact that prevention is to be done is not a good reason not to make a serious analysis of what is not working in the system of repression and I believe that we did so at the time when this kind of elaboration was carried out. Prevention is absolutely fundamental and I claim to the Government the merit not so much to have innovated the installation of the Severino law, which I consider positive, but to have activated it, because in the absence of the instruments envisaged, especially the Agency, that system could not work. 10:13 a.m. (Horland, Minister for Justice). This government among its first acts has chosen to activate the Authority against corruption, which I believe is the reference point of this prevention path. Did we work this out? No, I don't think so, because, like all prevention tools, it is necessary to avoid the risk of copy and paste. I'll explain. We have spoken in other areas: I am thinking of the prevention of accidents at work. Often public administrations and companies have interpreted this burden simply as a bureaucratic burden, solved precisely through the instrument of copying and paste that were reproduced automatically. On the other hand, we must ensure that prevention plans really take into account the specific nature of that reality; they take into account the performance of the public administration. But this will not guarantee any law: this will only be achieved by the social forces, the citizens, the political forces and those who are called to carry out the public offices in concrete terms. No law can guarantee that that prevention path is effective and alive, because it is an ex post evaluation that allows to verify it, which is the result of a social dialectic, an ability to monitor, an ability to stimulate the evolution of public administrations. Simplification is an objective that this Government pursues, however, I would not even like to say that this argument leads to say that, since the rules are many complicated, then it is necessary to be indulgent with those who bypass them using instruments of corruptive character, also because at the end of the argument of simplification was the presupposition to the derogations and interventions of a special character that have produced the various world championships of swimming, the various reconstructions, the various laws of specials that, circumventing the system of controls (since it was complex), have made sure that phenomena of corruptive character were produced. Simplifying is one thing, considering standards and controls as a useless burden is another. Unfortunately, this country has known this second path, which is not that of simplification, but that of the construction of paths of exceptional character that have been absolutely the prerequisite to the development and the realization of phenomena of corruptive character. I would like to conclude by stressing one aspect. I know that since the symbolic importance of interventions in the criminal field (and in a field like this, in particular), there will always be those who will say that not enough has been done and there will always be those who will say that the problem is another. We recorded it these days: as the text was being processed, there were those who said that there was something else to insert. I have no illusions that this figure will be resolved and overcome by the vote of this House and not even by the final text that will come out of Parliament. But I would also like to make an invitation, which I hope will be received: on this front, if we really consider it a national emergency, the effort to find unity should be the fundamental prerequisite for the action of all political forces. This country has defeated the most serious phenomena, from the economic crisis resulting from the ruins of war, to terrorism, to the Mafia aggression against the State, when it knew - no one, I believe, can deny this statement - to achieve a sufficient degree of unity of all political forces. We will not defeat corruption and we will not be able to give a clear signal, even from the cultural point of view, if we do not succeed in doing so with all political forces: the construction of unity comes first with respect to the legitimate affirmation of one's point of view. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] It's not a rhetorical call. After all, if we continue with polemics of a pretentious nature, if the logic of the "plus one" continues, if we continue the logic of getting out of line with the single point on which we disagree, we send an implicit message to the public: it is said that this is an emergency of a national character, but then we prefer - after all - to try to win some votes rather than to face this national emergency. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I believe that there are conditions - as the debate has developed so far - for taking a significant step forward, for removing many alibis and, indeed, for Parliament to put control and monitoring of prevention and simplification at the centre of its action. We are talking about our country's ability to attract investment. This condition will be fulfilled, I believe, when, to the end, we have given a credible response to all the remarks that the international context has placed on our legislation and on all the limits that it has indicated. From this point of view, consider the measure we are about to vote on: let us respond appropriately to all these points. I know that it is not always about the tables of the law of Moses. Sometimes international organizations also follow criteria that can be questionable and questionable, but a globalised economy cannot escape that measure of judgment. By taking this step, we accept that meter, take a step forward and solve a series of contradictions present in our system. From a symbolic point of view, of adequacy and functionality, I believe that by building this system of instruments we are serving our country. I hope to the end that propaganda will cease on this ground and that something can be done that effectively contrasts the corrupting phenomenon. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u15	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidency warns that the required number of senators requested a secret ballot pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure on a number of amendments, as well as on certain articles of the text of the draft law under consideration. In particular, the Presidency considers that it cannot accept this request with regard to amendment 9307, which has a purely procedural content, as it limits the procedure for bringing an action against the offending parties to the only cases referred to in the second paragraph of Article 2621-a of the Civil Code, which concerns the attenuating of the small matter. The request is admissible with regard to amendments 1.1, 1.302, 1.19, 1.22, 1.321, 1.323, 1.326, 1.328, 1.330, 1.331, 1.333, 1.335, 1.341, 1.342, 2.301, 2.303, 3.0,301, 4300, 4.302, 4.305, 5300, 8.316, 8.3217, 9.317, 9.318, 9.320, 10.317, 10.317, 10.317 and 10.321, which relate to the matters referred to in Articles 13, 25 and 27 of the Constitution. The request for a secret ballot of Articles 1, 2, 8, 9 and 10 is also admissible for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u16	Mr President, I would like to put forward some of the amendments proposed by my Group. In particular, since it has been positively considered by the rapporteur and the government, I would like to explain amendment 1.341 which provides for a premium mechanism for those who conduct collaborative actions in order to prevent criminal activity from leading to further consequences. Although the Northern League Group is certainly in favour of tightening penalties and a very rigorous assessment of the application of laws, we believe that it is important to evaluate, in particular, amendment 1.341 which provides for a premium mechanism for those who work with justice. Even if we are convinced, therefore, that all of the crimes must be punished and that it is true that those who cooperate have often committed a crime, we believe that we must encourage those who intend to contribute to the detection of the real perpetrators of a crime, especially in order to avoid further consequences. We have also tabled amendments 1,304 and 1.332. The first provides for an increase in the period in which the inability to negotiate with public administrations is foreseen, from five to six years. We believe, in fact, that those who have committed particular crimes that undermine the very confidence of the institutions should not still have the opportunity to negotiate with the public administration in view of the danger of its conduct. With Amendment 1.332 we have considered proposing an increase in the sentence from eight to twelve years for the offence of ex officio abuse. In fact, we believe that the abuse of office is a particularly shameful offence for those who work within the administration. We are in favour of public administration always having to behave with absolutely impeccable conduct and we believe that those who work behind a door, whatever it is, must follow particular criteria of rigour. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u17	Mr President, I would like to briefly table two amendments which I have tabled. I would like to focus on Amendment 1306, which provides for the so-called DASPO for the corrupt. There's been a lot of talk about it. He was the subject of a tweet by the President of the Renzi Council. On the declaration of inability to contract with the public administration by those who have been guilty, in the face of a judgment passed in court, of serious and very serious crimes against the public administration there has been a reverse for the truth completely unexpected, unexpected and unjustified by the majority and Government in the Commission justice. I believe that in this House we could solemnly draw the attention of the majority to this important measure, because the situation of corruption in our country is emerging and it is necessary to intervene with instruments that are equally effective in order to combat it. The second is amendment 1.336. It introduces a conflict of interest between the concussor and the concussor. On the line of the previous amendment, many senators have already declared themselves, who I wanted to mention, starting with Senator Grasso, but also Astorre, Capacchione, Cirinnà, Cuomo, D'Adda, Fedeli, Gatti, Rita Ghedini, Guerrieri, Mineo, Moscardelli, Parente, Puglisi, Puppato, Saggese, Scalia, Sollo, Zanda, Bubbico, Di Giorgi, Lucherini, Favero, Elena Ferrara, Padua, Ricchiuti, Zanoni, Albano, Orrù, Pezzopane, Lo Giudice e Spilabotte, who signed his bill n. 19, Presidente, which reports exactly this forecast. I wonder what action has been taken to change the opinion, which was clearly in accordance with the draft law which provides for this very important clause, so much so that it expresses itself in a contrary way in the Commission. I shall conclude with a request to the Government and a majority to amend their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u18	Mr President, I announce the withdrawal of amendments 1,310, 1,311 and 1,314. These amendments were tabled at the time to regulate the offences covered by the bill with the institution of prescription. In the light of the well-known legislative facts of the House, in order to avoid any confusion and overlap, we prefer to withdraw them here.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u19	Mr President, I would just like to read a comment, which emerged immediately at university, when we began to examine this measure: In points (a) and (b) of Article 1, it is proposed to amend the duration of the ancillary penalties provided for in the second paragraph of Articles 32-b and 32-d. On the point it is worth noting that the already recent law n. 190 of 6 November 2012 has, in many respects, modified in a pejorative sense the main and ancillary penalties provided for crimes against the public administration. The objection should not seem secondary, for two reasons. First of all, the penalties provided for by the above-mentioned law have recently been considered appropriate by the same political forces that today should decree a further tightening up. However, there is no justification for such a choice which, according to correct criminal policy criteria, should be based on the established and apparent inadequacy of the previous tightening of sanctions. On the other hand, apart from the obvious emphasis that no one can understand why the penalty for 'x' years of imprisonment should be inconsistent, where the different penalty for 'x plus one' years would be appropriate, it is not clear what political criminal evidence might have signalled the incorrectness of the choices made by Parliament, given that there is still such a rich and demonstrative implementation of its possible ineffectiveness as to justify such a hasty change. Nor, however, should the constitutional principle requiring a necessary ratio of the seriousness of the matter to the extent of the relevant sanction be disregarded.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u20	We greet the students, the students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Education "Leonardo da Vinci" in Chiavenna, in the province of Sondrio, who today follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u21	Mr President, Amendment 1,343 is the only one, among those tabled by the Senators of Forza Italia, which calls for an increase in the maximum and not the minimum penalties, as the other amendments call for. This is because it is the omission of office documents. In many cases the corruption, for which the penalties are increased, does not originate from the fact that a private person wants to obtain a dishonest privilege and wants to get given something he would not have the right, but from the fact that the length of our bureaucracy and the excess of authorizations and stamps that are required make sure that, if the private does not want to lose the investments and make his own company fail, sometimes he thinks to give money to someone so that they are given what he is entitled to. Since the boundary between what he is entitled to and what he is entitled to is very thin, but perhaps after a few months or years of long consideration by an officer, the private individual finds himself in a position to be moved to try to corrupt an officer, a clerk or a public servant. With the amendment in question, I therefore propose an increase in the maximum, without touching the minimum, of the penalties for the omission of acts of office, because so many times this is a crime that leads to another. I submit this proposal to the rapporteur's assessment (although he is now engaged in other conversations), because I believe that this must be taken into account. Let me give just one example: in this city, in order that a concession in sanatoria, required with all the crisms and requirements, can be certified by the competent office, you can wait even thirty years. Perhaps something should be done about this and it is certainly not the amendment we are debating that we can do so, because it would be up to those who run those offices to ensure that these things do not happen. [[Applause from FI-PdL XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u22	Mr President, I would like to present some of the amendments signed with Senator Caliendo and other senators. Having appreciated the words of Minister Orlando, when he said that in his view the increase in penalties does not always constitute an adequate deterrent to the crime of corruption and that sometimes it is even useless, I would like to point out that amendments 1.6, 1.10, 1.19, 1.22 and 1.321 intervene precisely on this increase in punishment. I also appreciated the Minister's words when it was said that we are all working in this House to combat corruption. The problem is that each of us can take different paths: we believe, for example, that the tightening up of penalties is not in itself suitable for combating the crime of corruption, and that is why we have tabled the amendments I mentioned earlier. This is also demonstrated by the amendments I have tabled to Article 7 - which I shall shortly explain - in which it is proposed to intervene in different ways and in different directions in order to combat corruption. Mr President, I would therefore like to make it clear that the fact that our amendments intervene on the determination of the penalty for the crime of corruption does not mean that their authors - including myself - do not intend to combat corruption. We believe that, in order to combat this phenomenon, different, different paths must be taken, and therefore these are certainly not amendments that go in the direction of favouring or supporting and justifying in some way those who commit such crimes. It is important to clarify this concept in front of the country. It is true that from here at some time someone who started this kind of intervention will raise the flag of anti-corruption, but beware: the country does not need flags that rise, but substantial effects of contrast to the phenomenon of corruption. Having said that, I would like to invite the Minister and the Government to reflect. If it is true, Minister, that you believe that the increase in the sentence is either inefficient or even unnecessary, you should consider giving opinions on these amendments and take into account the possibility of taking the path of prevention, which is also not at odds with your position of tightening up the sentence. [[Applause from Senator D'Anna]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u23	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u24	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u25	Mr President, if you allow me to take account of the amendments with a favourable opinion, with the result that the opinion is against the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u26	All right, Senator D'Ascola.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u27	Mr D'Ascola, rapporteur. I am in favour of amendment 1.309. It is the ancillary penalty of the ban from the exercise of a professional activity or of an art. In practice, we are calling for an increase in the minimum and maximum, from fifteen days to three months and from two years to three years. On the other hand, I make a request for reformulation, which I have written and which I can hand over to the Offices, of amendment 1,341, with reference to the mitigating circumstance envisaged in the case of cooperation. The rewording should replace the words "up to two thirds " with the different words "up to two thirds ". Obviously, the opinion is in favour of the subsequent amendment 1,342, signed by Senator Caliendo and others, which already contains this specification. Therefore, the attenuating effectiveness of the collaboration is increased from a range ranging from one third to half to a range ranging from one third to two thirds. I am also in favour of the agenda G1,100, at the first signature of Senator Caliendo, with the following specification. The Government is invited to consider whether it is appropriate to do so and, in the next paragraph, to delete the words'modified' and'modified', after the adverb 'appropriately', leaving only the past participle 'integrated'. On the remaining amendments, I would like to call for a withdrawal or against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u28	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u29	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.1, on which a request for a secret vote has been tabled. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would ask the required number of senators to support this request. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. The Senate doesn't approve. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,300. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,300, tabled by Senators Buemi and Longo Fausto Guilherme. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Davico to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1,301. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1302, on which a request for a secret vote has been tabled. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask the required number of senators to support this request. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1,302 tabled by Senator Barani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.6, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators, identical to amendment 1.303, tabled by Senator Barani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1,304, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario, up to the words "the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1,304 and amendment 1.10 are therefore excluded. LUMIA (PD). Mr President, we withdraw Amendment 1,305.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u32	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr. President, I'll do it myself.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u33	I call on Senator Casson and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,305, which was subsequently withdrawn and taken over by Senator Buccarella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1306, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.13, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators, identical to amendment 1.307, tabled by Senator Barani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,308.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u36	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Amendment 1,308 aims to point out an important problem, including that of Minister Orlando, who is responsible for the relationship between civil servants and citizens. In the case of conviction, even if not particularly high, this trust relationship fails, because it is evident that those who are available to the corruption phenomenon cannot represent a future point of reference in the public administration. The amendment tended to point out the need for greater severity than the behaviour of civil servants. However, I take note of the Minister's remarks and his withdrawal.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u39	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, I accept Amendment 1,308.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u40	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,308, tabled by Senators Buemi and Longo Fausto Guilherme, subsequently withdrawn and made by Senator Cappelletti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,309, tabled by Senator Casson and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,310 and 1,311 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 1.312.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u43	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, as we welcome the adoption of the previous amendment, we withdraw amendment 1.312.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u46	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, Amendment 1,312 and the subsequent amendment, 1.313, which will be in the immediate withdrawal of the Democratic Party, are taken over by the 5 Star Movement and, consistently, voted in favour. Incoherently, and constantly, some of Parliament's forces are putting in place provisions and then withdrawing them always, surreptitiously, one minute before the vote! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u47	Does the rapporteur's and the government's opinion on amendment 1.312 remain unchanged?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u48	The opinion remains opposed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u51	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would just like to clarify to Senator Cappelletti that, probably in the enthusiasm of political intervention, he shows that he has a short memory, when he says that the most numerically important political forces in this Chamber surreptitiously withdraw the amendments one minute before the vote. Apart from the fact that this consideration can be addressed only and exclusively to the Democratic Party, I would like to say to Senator Cappelletti, hoping that the enthusiasm does not distract him, that he has adopted the amendments of Senator Casson 1.312 and 1.313 that are similar to the amendments 1,310 and 1,311 of Senator Buccarella, that is of the 5 Star Movement, just withdrawn exactly by the presenter. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bianconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u54	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, just because it remains in the record, I remember the lucky fact that we all know how to read here - so I will not say more than one word of comment - in order to verify that what President Palma surprisingly supported does not correspond to truth. In fact, the content of the amendments he mentioned is completely different, keeping to the scope of the amendments made by the 5 Star Movement to the statute of limitations and at the time from which the limitation should cease to apply in respect of all offences, while the amendments to my first signature which I withdrew only concerned the discipline of limitation in relation to crimes against public administration. Lucky we can read! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u55	I call on Senator Casson and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,312, which was subsequently withdrawn and taken over by Senator Cappelletti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.313.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u58	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, I would like to point out to all my fellow Members that these amendments concern limitation and were prepared before the other branch of Parliament, the House, had adopted a draft law which deals precisely with limitation. The government's choice was that of a strict line that - as I said in general discussion - we intend to follow. For this reason we have withdrawn these amendments and I believe that Senator Buccarella and the other members of the 5 Star Movement have also done well to withdraw amendments that always intervene in the matter of prescription.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u59	However, since amendment 1.313 was made precisely by Senator Cappelletti, it must be put to the vote. I call on Senator Casson and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,313, which was subsequently withdrawn and taken over by Senator Cappelletti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.314 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 1.315.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u62	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I withdraw amendment 1.315.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u63	We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 1.316. Do the presenters keep it? MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). I'm gonna drop it, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,19, on which a request for a secret ballot was tabled, identical to Amendment No 1,317. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask the required number of senators to support this request. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1,19, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators, identical to amendment 1,317, tabled by Senator Barani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,318, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.319, which is identical to Amendment No 1.22, on which a request for a secret ballot has been made. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask the required number of senators to support this request. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1,319, tabled by Senator Barani, identical to amendment 1.22, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,320, tabled by Senator Giarrusso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,321, on which a request for a secret ballot was tabled, identical to Amendment 1,322. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask the required number of senators to support this request. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1,321, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators, identical to amendment 1,322, tabled by Senator Barani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,323, on which a request for a secret ballot has been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u66	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like everyone to pay attention to this amendment. I only proposed a reduction in the minimum penalty, keeping the maximum penalty proposed by the government. I do not have to teach President Grasso that this is part of the logic of the legal technique in criminal matters, which leaves to the judge the possibility to evaluate minimum facts. We are transforming, with these rules, our justice into a justice of the precautionary measure, as Professor Flick said a few days ago: a justice of the precautionary measure and not of ascertaining responsibility, to state what are the real responsibilities and what is the penalty graduated according to the gravity of the matter. If we have been starting for six years, in a criminal system where this penalty is not provided for, you realize that a minimum sentence of six years makes it impossible for the judge to make any assessment. And indeed that justice of the precautionary measure and no longer of the criminal liability we have already achieved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u69	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, on behalf of the 5 Star Movement, I am voting against this amendment, because there is a downward line that is intolerable. The pretence that the penalties of the penal code are those of the edittal ones or the maximum ones is intolerable in this House, especially by those who are familiar with the classrooms of a court and, therefore, they know well how much influence the minimum of the penalty has, that is what is really discussed in the classrooms, and that the minimum edittals are never those that are granted, thanks to all that complex of procedural rules and alternative paths laid down in recent years. Therefore, a minimum sentence of six years is never such, and we know that if it were to be two years, it would be a great thing.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u71	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u72	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Senator Caliendo will vote in favour of amendment 1,321, while I personally will abstain, because I do not intend in any way to participate in a Senate-sale that is represented by this measure. The point at issue is very simple: the Minister, in his reply, acknowledged that the intervention on corruption could probably be different. One could, that is, imagine a legislative change concerning corruption in large contracts, in large works, that is those works in which the so-called corruptive system is housed. And from this point of view, the premium legislation, although introduced in this text, made sense. On the other hand, it could be left unchanged or - if you want - further aggravated the penalties for corruption and other crimes of public administration concerning works other than those fundamental to the modernization of the country. That was not what he wanted to do. He made all the grass a bundle. It was imagined that these crimes were only against public administration and not against the national economy and, with little confidence in the discretion of the judge, increased not only and not so much the maximum of the penalty - which we can obviously also share - but the minimum of the penalty. So, beyond the position expressed earlier, according to his usual style, by Senator Giarrusso, he imagined that the crime of corruption was at least six years old. However, corruption is not only that of the MOSE or Expo, the big contracts or Mafia Capital. It is also corruption - if you pass me the term - that is rude, that often - alas too often - lodges in this country: the corruption of 500 and 1,000 euros. Since our sanctioning system, in order to overcome the passage of the Constitutional Court, must have its rationality, and this is based on the proportionality between the penalty, in concrete and abstract, and the fact really committed, I ask and ask you: excuse me, but you think rational and proportional that a judge, as has always happened, in the passage between the minimum and the maximum of the penalty, can only condemn a person who, by hypothesis, has committed a corruption offence for 1,000 euros, to a penalty - it is wrong Senator Giarrusso - that, if ever he should be recognized, if he should ever have a special rite, would certainly be more than two years and six months and, therefore, surely the harbor of the prison? The return - this says the amendment - the minimum sentence from six to four years, leaving completely unchanged the maximum of ten years, means only telling the judge that, in the face of a serious episode of corruption, but compared to all other episodes of corruption certainly marginal, has the possibility to impose a more appropriate penalty to the actual fact committed. With this amendment we do not want to prevent a furious repression of those who commit the crime of corruption. We simply want to give the judge the opportunity to adjust the penalty that will be imposed in practice in relation to the fact that the subject is actually present. [[Applause from Senator Falanga.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u75	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, our vote on the amendment tabled by Senator Caliendo will be against. We are talking about the crime of corruption, which is the heart of the various cases that intend to intervene and strike at the various aspects of corruption. Colleagues, we are talking about corruption for an act contrary to office duties and, therefore, a delicate and important aspect of the fight against corruption. We have said in this House - and we all agree - that it is not enough to increase the penalties, but to counter the increase in penalties to prevention is a mistake, and an advanced country, a mature country, does not commit it. Therefore, the Minister has done well in his reply to reiterate the need for a vision that integrates prevention with repression. We all agree that there is a need - and has been said in various interventions - to increase the rate of intervention, through other procedures and ways, in the fight against corruption. We have talked about an integrated procurement plan - as well as public administration interventions - and this is the line that the government has chosen and that Parliament must follow. Colleagues, we are not talking about disproportionate, inconsistent and unsystematic increases, as requested when intervening on penalties, but about an increase in penalties from six to ten years, while the current legislation provides for four to eight years. Therefore, these are minimal increases in proportionate sentences, which are better able to respond, for the specific and limited aspect of repression, to what has been pointed out to us. And the President knows - and I repeat - that with general attenuators and special rituals, the danger he feared when it comes to small facts can be easily faced by the judge and solved brilliantly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u78	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I, unlike Senator Palma, will vote in favour of this amendment, although I fully agree with the speech made by the President of the Commission. I agree with him so much that he would have given me problems if Senator Lumia had not just spoken about prevention and minimal increases. I am even more comforted to know that there is a senator for whom the 33 percent increase in the minimum penalty is to be considered minimal. The increase of a third of the sentence, to be precise of 33 percent, is considered minimal, minimal, a silly. You talk about prevention and I can think of the intervention of Senator Buccarella, who said "We know how to read" and Senator Lumia can speak. But can you understand what you read or what you say? Can you understand that when we talk about prevention, we don't intervene so much to throw a word there? Prevention is done in the acts, in the facts. What does this government do for prevention? We have tabled amendments to remove the policy from the ASL, from the cover of the appointment of Directors-General, Health Directors, Administrative Directors, Chiefs, and you have said no. You said, you of the Democratic Party, with Lumia in the lead, no to Senator Palma's amendment, first, and mine and Ciro Falanga's, then. You said no, so you don't want prevention. I regret not to share, obviously arguing, the beautiful poem that Senator Falanga quoted yesterday, taking again Giovanni Pascoli, "L'aquione": There is something new today in the sun, indeed ancient. Senator Falanga was wrong to put it in the fake budget, saying that they copied the law before 2005, which already existed. No, we are actually returning to the Pica law, to the edict of Vittorio Emanuele II, when shooting and forced labor was expected for life and time. Increasing the maximum penalty means increasing the prescription. Senator Lumia, who is incorrect and a summary justiceist, knows perfectly well and does so on purpose, and that is what he wants. Senator Caliendo calls for a reduction in the minimum penalty, so that 50 euros are not comparable to 5 million euros. It is a crime, we condemn it, but we also give the opportunity to differentiate the penalty to be imposed on the basis of the gravity of the matter. That is what Senator Caliendo is saying in amendment 1,323. In medicine, when you have the minimum effective dose to cure a disease, why give the maximum dose, which could lead to death the patient or create irreversible damage? That's all we want to say, no more and no less. That is why I am going to vote in favour of this guaranteed amendment, because that is what the Constitutional Fathers wanted. Stop quoting the constituent Fathers, who turn to the grave when they see someone voting on this law. [[Applause from Senators D'Anna and Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u80	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u81	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I withdraw my signature from this amendment and declare that I am voting against it. But you must allow me to point out to Senator Lumia that it is by no means true that there is no difference in terms of the consequences. Senator Palma was very clear in pointing out that the reduction of the penalty for a crime contrary to the duties of office, which may lead to an advantage or in any case a price of corruption of 500 or 1,000 euros, can allow the judge not to be obliged to arrest those who carry it out. Therefore, the amendment is on preventive imprisonment. Senator Lumia, study!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u84	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask the required number of senators to support the request for a secret ballot for amendment 1,323.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u85	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1,323, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,324, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators, up to the words "twelve years". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1.324 and amendment 1.325 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,326, on which a request for a secret ballot was tabled, identical to Amendment 1,327.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u88	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I do not know what you would have done, but certainly I, if I were still a magistrate, would have resigned from the judiciary if a rule such as the one we have just voted on corruption had passed. Take care: the rule we are about to examine provides for very high penalties, but I do not dispute this, because I leave responsibility to the Minister. But on the slightest penis I keep my position. Minister, with great respect, I would like to say that, having sworn allegiance to the Constitution, I would never have been able to apply rules of this kind, because that would have meant, by necessity, putting people who would then have been acquitted in jail. That's crazy! I know very well that there have been magistrates who have agreed to remain so despite having to apply the fascist laws. We cannot achieve this anonymity, the aberration of maintaining minimum penalties so high as to force the judge to take protective measures even when, at the end of the trial, the suspect is acquitted. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] This is an absolute gravity thing. I say to President Napolitano that like me, and before me, he made some statements when he was President of the House on this very matter. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u91	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, of course I will vote in favour of amendment 1,327, since I have tabled it, but I would like to correct a mistake that I made earlier in saying that the increase in the minimum penalty envisaged was 33%, because instead it is 50%. I would also like to add, because our fellow Members who vote must know this, that for minimal, even serious, facts, and only on charges that are still unfounded and uncontrolled, we also have innocent people arrested. I do not know what satisfaction there is in this: perhaps it is psychological or it causes pheromones to be produced. I have not quite understood what Lumia and company want to carry forward by saying that, for minimal accusations, we must have people arrested who, after 20 years or more, will perhaps be judged innocent. But - lively God - you realize - and I have already said so during the general discussion - that, when someone is sick, perhaps cancer, he needs immediate intervention and then he must continue to investigate and cannot lead this life for twenty years? And we, instead, as operators, tell him that he can operate 20 years later, that we will decide in 20 years, because that is the time necessary for the prescription, and then maybe find out that it was an innocent one? Who compensates an innocent man? When such a thing happens to you in your family, you will remember my words, you will remember that someone had said so. And it will be useless to say - as Bertolt Brecht did in that famous aphorism - that there is no one left to defend you, because you have allowed this weapon to be handed over to the judges and, therefore, to have innocent people arrested as well. A great President of the Republic like Sandro Pertini, in his inaugural speech, said that there could be full granaries and they could promise anything, but he would never allow a day of freedom to be taken away from anyone one day! Here, however, we expect twenty years of deprivation of liberty, because a person under trial for more than twenty years is not free and, indeed, is subjected to real torture. Inexpensive crimes are only committed in communist and Nazi regimes. Now, if you're Nazis or communists, you decide: it's a good race. Let's see who wins. [[Applause from the LAGs (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI) and FI-PdL XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u94	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask the required number of senators to support the request for a secret vote on Amendment 1,326.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u95	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1,326, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators, identical to amendment 1,327, tabled by Senator Barani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,328, on which a request for a secret ballot has been tabled. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask the required number of senators to support this request. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1,328, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,329, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,330, on which a request for a secret ballot has been made. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask the required number of senators to support this request. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of Amendment 1,330, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.331, on which a request for a secret ballot has been tabled. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask the required number of senators to support this request. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1,331, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.332, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,333, on which a request for a secret ballot was tabled, identical to Amendment 1,334.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u98	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Rule 319-c - for those who do not remember it - has been introduced by the so-called Severino law into our system. This article provides for the crime of concussion by induction, punished with penalties from three to eight years. Now we go from a sentence of three and eight years to a sentence of six years and ten months. Why? President, we will be in the situation prior to the amendment of the Severino law. Why was it changed? You will remember the European remarks about our offence of concussion, which prevented the application of European countries from taking account of the responsibility of the concussion. And for this reason a new formulation came about. Minister Orlando will recall that, in a series of meetings I had as Undersecretary with the OECD, I had to ensure that this Parliament changed the law on concussion. It was modified and the Minister will remember that one of the best criminal law experts in our country, Professor Severino, explained and took into account the reasons why the increases of punishment, which he proposed and which were implemented, had to respond to a principle of balance of the sanctioning system. Now, without any detected lack of functionality from the point of view of the measure of the sentence, it goes from three to six years in the minimum. Do you realize the people you hired after a trial? What are we supposed to do? You think you're gonna be a magistrate for a day, an hour, and you're gonna end up with a six-year sentence at the very least. What are you doing during the investigation? Are you arresting the person or not? And then you have the courage to absolve her, after serving him a year in prison, with the consequences of the reparation to which the State has to provide? I wonder what the reason for this is. We have specifically foreseen an induction crime, which may also consist of minor facts. How do you say six years have to be paid at least? But this is crazy! I beg you to think. I have put forward for days an issue in the Justice Commission on the increase in penalties, which is a shameful fact. We come to prescriptions that cannot be admissible under our Constitution. A prescription that lasts 20 or 30 years is against civil life. And those who argue the opposite obviously do not know what life is and who it is, of which we must respect, and not by our choice, but by Article 2 of the Constitution, which proclaims the rights of the person. And do you want to put in jail or expose an individual to society's guitar for 20 or 30 years because he has stumbled into a criminal trial, in which he can then be acquitted? But this is barbarity, as well as being against the Constitution! So I ask you why this six-year forecast. Minister, even if I did not agree with the increase in the maximum, I asked only for the reduction of the minimum, leaving to you, for that adjustment to which you referred in relation to the prescription, the choices. I didn't affect the increase in the sentence, but you do save the principles of criminal law, saving the minimum. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator D'Anna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u99	We greet the students, the students and the teachers of the Liceo Scientifico (Leonardo da Vinci) in Trento, who today attend our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u101	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u102	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, since the vote is secret and we are living in times of great malice, just as I withdrew the card in the previous vote, I will also withdraw it in this. So I am not going to vote on Amendment 1,333. I share everything Senator Caliendo said. Nevertheless, I urge you to vote against Senator Caliendo's amendment, and I explain the reasons for that. All the problem that concerns this law stems from that amendment of the Government that carries the penalty of corruption from six to ten years. In view of this, there was a need to adapt the current sanctioning system on the basis of that government amendment. And it is no coincidence - for example - that improper corruption (i.e. by act of one's own office) has passed for a maximum of six years, although I have to admit that this was clearly bent on the need to allow telephone interceptions. But in letter g, there is a clear example of the dismay that you are combining. Professor D'Ascola, who is well aware of the matter, had to bring the minimum penalty of concussion by induction to the same level as his own corruption and to increase the maximum penalty of concussion by induction to a ceiling higher than that provided for in the government amendment, so that - the only case in our penal code - when you vote on this amendment, we will face a penalty that includes months and not just years, that is a penalty of ten years and six months. I therefore believe that we should leave the amendment under consideration, because on this amendment the reasoning of the Constitutional Court will obviously be tranchant, since it cannot be imagined that there is a more serious crime in our code, such as concussion by induction, that it has the same minimum penalty of corruption - that is six years - and that it has as differentiation only six months more than the maximum. Consequently, my idea is to leave him. Of course, I realize that instead the first-signed amendment by Senator Caliendo would make the system more rational in terms of sanctions, because it certainly falls within the discretion of the legislator to confer more gravity on one crime than another and, for example, to consider in a given historical situation, as has been done in this measure, the crime of corruption more serious than the offence of peculate - historically considered more serious than that of corruption - and to imagine that the concussion by induction is a less serious crime than corruption and, consequently, if ever it were to be accepted the amendment Caliendo, to confer a sentence significantly different from the crime of corruption. I know that these are all talk to the wind and I know perfectly well that the strength of numbers will lay down in the sense of launching this measure. Ours, when they rise, are only voices of testimony, only calls to the Senate of the Republic to legislate, even with a wild tightening of sanctions, if you want to do so, but respecting the criteria and the dictates of our constitutional order and our organization of the sector. We don't say anything but that. We are aware that this law will not have a great life, because the majority did not understand and do not intend to accept those small contributions of common sense, those small legal contributions, if you like, that we are trying to bring from the opposition benches. You must not have missed the fact that we are not obstructing it, as we could have done. [[Comments of Senator Albano]] We did so in the Commission, yes, but when the Government did not deposit the amendments there, thinking that it could bypass the Commission by depositing them only in this House, I have to say with little respect to the Senate, which is not just the Assembly, but also its contact points. Only this was the reason for that obstructionism, which did not by chance cease at the very moment when that amendment was tabled. We are not obstructing, we are not talking about all the amendments, but only about those three or four amendments which, in our opinion - perhaps it is wrong - denounce an absence of measure in the sanctioning system, with reference to the concrete facts that the judge can find before and also denounce a lack of rationality in the comparison of sanctions, which assist figures of criminal cases between them absolutely different. That's it. We are asking you to move forward with your ideas, to vote on your measures, but at least to defeat them from the inevitable issues of constitutional legitimacy that will attack them and that will bring this law, from here on soon, to be seriously attacked and touched by the Constitutional Court. [[Applause from Senator Falanga.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u105	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I am also speaking in explanations of vote because I have tabled an amendment similar to that of Senator Caliendo. I would also like to make my contribution because I want to keep track of my disagreement with the Government in the parliamentary acts. As President Palma correctly said, we have made an effort to help the Government to legislate in the common interest of justice for the sovereign people. I therefore express my concern at the fact that in this measure, with reference to the Severino law, passed about three years ago and which has not yet been able to assess its practical validity, a minimum penalty is increased by 100%. Already then I understood that it was necessary to vote against, so much so that in the House I was one of the enlightened sects who did not vote for it. Certainly there is no balance of the sanctioning system here, but it does not exist because there is neither head nor tail. By still making allegorical examples or similarities, it is as if we were shooting a sparrow with a wild boar bullet or if we were to treat a toothache by administering cancer therapy. It is a disproportionate system in everything, at the very least and at the most, because the extra six months are clearly intended to allow a longer prescription to continue to torture our citizens, to vex them, to tell them that they are slaves because there is someone who imposes himself and manages to dominate politics and any administration, to choose who to investigate and eliminate, albeit innocent, and those to whom to administer. Neither more nor less than what happened in 1992 with Clean Hands, when enlightened politicians were replaced by those I call politically endowed with political cretinism that pervaded Parliament. Senator Palma, we can't be complicit in this. I know perfectly well that the Constitutional Court will reject the measure, but we cannot be accomplices. That is why we will vote in favour of the amendment because, for us socialists and reformists, there are very few of us left here (I can count them on the fingers of one hand), the worst of all the better is not good. We cannot allow a branch of Parliament to make typical laws of past times. I have already mentioned the edict of Vittorio Emanuele II, but I also refer to the laws of Russia of Stalin or Hitler's Germany. In Mussolini's Italy the Rocco code was in force, much more guaranteeing than what we now have. I conclude with a personal appeal that summarizes the concept that I wanted to express. I address the constituent Fathers asking them to forgive you for the evil you are doing to their efforts and the blood they have shed to free Italy and give us a democracy that is now being trampled on. Forgive them that they do not know what evil they do! [[Applause from Senators Ferrara Mario and Mauro Giovanni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u108	Mr D'Ascola, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to speak on the question of sanctions, especially with regard to minimum standards. The paradox is that it was the opposition that raised a problem of sanctioning harmonisation, from which the further increase of sanctions was derived. The majority, of course, explicitly recognised, in the Justice Committee, the merits of certain issues which inevitably arose as a result of the government's passing on an amendment which increased the minimum penalty for the crime of corruption, understood as own corruption, i.e. by act contrary to the duties of the office. We all know that both in the basic text of bill No 19 and in the unified text that I had prepared, the minimum penalty was four years and the maximum penalty was ten years. Nevertheless, it is clear that the majority of the government's criminal policy stance cannot be regarded as irrelevant or negligible: it is clear that, having dictated the government's lines of criminal policy that were reflected in an increase in sanctions, the majority present within the Justice Commission could not express attitudes of indifference to a respectable criminal policy line. There is to be observed, and in this I allow myself to answer the objection of Senator Palma, that it is not true that only for this case there is a penalty, the maximum one, which provides for the use of fractions of years (years ten and months six), because not only if you consult the supplementary criminal legislation, but I would say in particular the civil code in the matter of corporate crimes, there are penalties which make use of fractions of year, therefore of six months of imprisonment, to detail the penalties better. However, I would like to say something about the question of constitutionality which is the most important and which has led the rapporteur to intervene in the direction of an adjustment which would function as a harmonization of the sanctioning system for crimes against public administration. However, in this we have the support of the Constitutional Court, which, in certain cases - I quote one for all, the one relating to the crime of outrage - has stated clear principles: arbiter of the treatment of penalties is the legislative power, this is indisputable, because these are assessments of merit, of appreciations that obviously concern the assessment that the legislative power makes with reference to the gravity of the crimes, as a result of which gravity details penalties that are proportionate. I must also say that the borders from the point of view of the estimation of a fair penalty are mobile borders: we cannot think that assessments dating back to the 1930s are still up to date, even as a result of the change of criminalistic importance, but even before social conduct of offensive legal goods, which obviously become more important as a result of social phenomena that cannot be blocked. In this sense, we must be aware of the freedom of the legislator, who appreciates the merit, but who must take into account that hierarchy of the relevant one that ensures that the legislator must express current assessments. The limit of constitutionality of the appreciations that the legislator carries out with reference to the penalty that is considered right to cover the offense and disvalue of that particular crime is an assessment that can be affected by unconstitutionality if manifestly unreasonable: this is the limit set by the Constitutional Court. Without prejudice to the cases of obvious unreasonableness, which the rapporteur allows to be considered as not to be found (then it is clear that everyone can express, and would be lacking, a contrary assessment), being the parameter the word "Palese", therefore an adjective aimed at manifesting the enormity of a noun, "unreasonableness", already demonstrative of a level of absolute inability in the judgment of determination of the penalties. Then, as for the penalty for the undue induction, it was considered to maintain it, even for that fraction of six months, superior to corruption for a tradition still defensible, relevant and current: it has always been considered that the family - improperly use this term, but today present - of the crimes of concussion, to which undoubtedly the indebited induction belongs even at the least serious level of disvalue, deserved however a signal of greater gravity than the crime of corruption own by act contrary to the duties of the office. Those six months, precisely, reflect a signal of differentiation from the crimes of corruption, even with regard to the maximum of the sentence, that the judge will be free to use or not to use, since we know that the maximum is a frontier that the judge is free not to reach.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u111	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would ask the required number of senators to support the request for a secret vote on Amendment 1,333.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u112	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1,333, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators, identical to amendment 1,334, tabled by Senator Barani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.335, on which a request for a secret ballot has been tabled. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask the required number of senators to support this request. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u115	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I will be very brief because I have already referred to this on the previous amendment. With amendment 1.335, be careful, the increase envisaged by the Government for the maximum penalty is maintained and I have not intervened on this. This amendment no longer removes the change made by the Government with regard to the maximum penalty but only the reduction in the duration of the minimum penalty, which is confirmed during the duration provided for by the current rule. If you have a minimum of sensitivity I appeal to all of you, as mentioned above in relation to the minimum sentence of six years.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u116	Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1,335, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.336.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u119	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, I have already explained the content of this amendment, which I consider particularly significant and important for the fight against corruption in our country. So we are at a crossroads and there has been a long discussion over the past few days of the attitude of this Parliament, or rather of this majority and of the current Government, to slap the magistrates and caress the corrupt. All right, let's go see what we've done so far. We failed the DASPO for the corrupt and the corrupt. We rejected the amendment - not of the 5 Star Movement, but tabled by representatives of the majority - which required the dismissal of the employee who commits crimes against public administration with less than three years' imprisonment. We rejected a reform of the statute of limitations which had been proposed by you and which provided for the suspension of referral to trial or of the first instance, certainly more advanced and effective than the one that was recently voted in the other House of Parliament. It would have been effective to avoid new Penalty cases in our country. We now have the opportunity to provide the investigating judiciary with an effective instrument of investigation, namely the introduction of a conflict of interest between the corrupt and the corrupt. We therefore have the opportunity to break that relationship of fairness, allowing for the emergence of crimes of which, for the vast majority, one is never aware. It is not only our proposal, it is not only a proposal from the 5 Star Movement, but also your proposal (the Democratic Party spoke), because it is contained in the Bill Grasso and has been signed by over 30 senators of the Democratic Party, including the leader Luigi Zanda. So we have an opportunity to answer the initial question: is it true what has been said, namely that the policy of this Parliament is to treat with a corrupt and corrupt caress and with a slap the judges, perhaps intervening with a new more restrictive rule on interceptions, seen and considered that there are too many investigations that bring to the surface corrupting events in our country? It is up to you to give an answer; I therefore appeal to all your consciences. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u122	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, of course I am voting against this amendment. I have not quite understood, from the intervention of my colleague Cappelletti, who takes the slaps and who takes the caress. Do innocent people get slapped or caressed? [[Applause from Senator Pelino.]] According to Cappelletti, they're beaks and beatings. Saying that the judges slap and corrupt the caresses, I believe we are out of time, out of place and out of space; and I add nothing else. I hear here talking about a great cataclysm, a natural disaster, an epidemic of corruption. All the statistics say we're in the grip of an epidemic that may lead to the country's death. Of course I open the clinical record of this epidemic and take the data, Mr President, which come from the committee set up at the Department of Public Service by the then Minister Patroni Griffi in October 2012 (so almost three years ago, when he was President of the Council Mario Monti) and also from the Atlas of Corruption, Citizenship and Eurobarometer, well represented by a majority member of this Parliament, Mr Giovanardi, in his book, from which I read it. The data on corruption that emerge from this investigation say that 9-10 million Italians, in the last twelve months, have been the subject of bribes. But, dear God, isn't corruption just public officials? Is it permissible and not allowed for all civil servants and civil servants (4 million), including all politicians, to be corrupted, the other 5 million from where they come from? And then, as a doctor, I'm going to see the medical records and I'm going to see what corruption is in Italy. Vivadio, in 2013 there were only 227 complaints and 121 trials. But in the face of what epidemic? An epidemic produced by the planned ten-year imprisonment with a 30-year prescription? Before you do monstrous therapies, go to your medical history; do the objective examination, be sure. The first to quote Calamandrei do four slaps again in this House. You're unworthy of it! [[Protests from the M5S Group and Senator Campanella]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u123	Senator Barani, I invite you to speak in accordance with this House. The slaps can give them out of here, even if they're metaphorical, at least I think.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u124	[[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). I think his parents gave him slaps, too, and maybe if they gave him more, they'd have brought him up better.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u127	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, even though I mentioned this earlier, I would like the presenters to listen to me. We live in an economically globalised society; we need to work in the European world and, also from the point of view of criminal law, we need to take into account what is happening in Europe and in other countries. For about six years, the OECD has been pressing Italy to break the concussion crime that did not foresee, as it does not foresee when there is constriction, the punishableness of the concussion. This determined, at the European level in other countries, the possibility for companies in our country, which were surprised in such a situation, in particular by corruption, to say that they were neither corrupt nor corrupt but concussive. For this reason, according to national law, one should not have been punished. This logic has therefore led to the Severino law, with a Parliament that has reasoned, also on the basis of what were the indications of Europe - it has been opened even an infringement procedure against our country - and we have succeeded, through one of the few rules that has found the agreement of the whole Parliament, in finding a punishment, not very high, different, compared to the one who commits the crime of induction; crime that is very close to corruption and not that of corruption by coercion. For this reason it would be a huge error, also from an economic point of view, in relations and influences on the national economy, to delete paragraph 2 of Article 319-c of the penal code, as Amendment 1.336 provides. Not only, therefore, I appeal to the Senate Assembly to reject this amendment but, knowing its integrity and intelligence, Senator Cappelletti, I invite you to withdraw it because it is against our economy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u130	Mr D'Ascola, rapporteur. Mr President, the rapporteur is allowed to speak, not because he wants to expand - and we would miss it - the time for debate, but because this is a qualifying point. Among other things, it is also reflected in certain amendments tabled with regard to Article 2; therefore, the presentation of the reasons for the opposite opinion also, in a sense, has the effect of saving what could be said with regard to the amendments tabled in Article 2. What's the matter? The criminal debate of the last fifteen years on corruption offences has been occupied, precisely by what, with a bad term, is called the break-up of the concussion, that is, international bodies, among which mainly the OECD, reproach Italy, using the crime of concussion, an incomplete and ineffective protection against corruption. In fact, it was said: since you have the non-penalty of the concussion (at the time it was the concussion both by compulsion and by induction), the corruptor will be easy to disguise as concussion in order to avoid the criminality provided for corruption. So it was said that the arrangement of concussion, in not predicting any punishableness for the concussion, weakens corruption. In this direction and in obedience to the polemics and the calls of these international organizations, in 2012 it was considered to separate the concussion by compulsion from the concussion by induction, creating precisely Article 319-c which, in its second paragraph, provides a penalty, among other things extremely reasonable, for the one who was unduly induced (we say that it is a sort of concussion of series B), to mark the distinction with the generalist figure of concussion by compulsion (which continues to maintain the non-incriminability of the concussive effect of violence or threat, therefore in a situation of constriction). At this point, the amendment would propose a return to the past. It is not that in the past it is forbidden to return, for goodness sake, but if - I repeat - the whole debate of fifteen years of criminal law on these issues has been aimed at finding a solution to the problem, determined mainly by the references of the OECD with reference to this historical non-criminality of the concussion and therefore the reflections of this non-criminality on the crimes of corruption, today the return to the past would not only be without any justification, but would stand in countertrend, we could say radically, with what is a solution in accordance with a whole series of functional indications to increase the punishableness of the crimes of corruption and the rigour against them. I would like to point out that, among other things, this legislative text is also made up of a rule concerning cooperation and the effects of cooperation. The collaboration has a double face: it is an extenuating circumstance for those who collaborate, but on the side of the investigations it is a functional institute to increase the knowledge patrimony of the prosecutor. It is true that the proposed text on collaboration, Article 323- bis, uses the adverb effectively to underline the fact that it can enjoy the attenuating of collaboration who has, however, made a functional contribution to the increase in the investigation, the preservation of evidence and the origin of illegal activities, and in any case the evolution of the activities of the prosecutor. I say then that what is lost on the side of that increase to the investigations that could arise from the non punishableness of the concusso (which remains not punishable because here we speak of the non punishableness of the indebably induced), it is earned by the effect of a new aggravating circumstance, which however is functional to the increase of the cognitive patrimony of the public prosecutor and the investigations, the conservation of the evidence material and also the preservation of the profit. This is the reason why, not only with regard to this amendment but also to those who, with reference to Article 2, are still complaining about the criminality of the indeedly induced, it has led the rapporteur, but also the Government, to express an opinion against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u133	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, since Mr Barani has had the ability to quote me, I would like to make a point about this important measure, which - as Senator Barani says as a doctor - starts from the diagnosis. I would like to reassure my colleagues that the EUR 60 billion a year of corruption from which our country would be afflicted - which unfortunately destroyed us worldwide in terms of reputation - does not exist anywhere. The Court of Auditors has never said anything so disproportionate and out of reality. We are talking, as the Government had to answer me in the Commission and in the Chamber two years ago, about the so-called perceived corruption and a poll of opinion that the Monti Government commissioned by questioning the citizens and asking their opinion on what they thought was the corruption of our country; this is the only existing data. Indeed, if it really were EUR 60 billion a year, it would be EUR 600 billion in ten years. I would remind my colleagues that, fortunately, even on the basis of the current legislation, the judiciary has undoed the system of evil in Veneto, arresting and in some cases already condemning those responsible (including some famous colleagues), intervened with the Expo in Milan and intervened in Rome. But, taking into account everything that has potentially been - very serious things - poured out in ten years in terms of corruption, we are at about EUR 100 million: if the figure of EUR 600 billion were true, we would still need EUR 59.900 million to be found. Therefore, as unfortunately some surveys report, there are ten or fifteen million Italians who would have been asked for a bribe in a year; and there would be another fifteen million Italians who would have asked for a bribe to as many Italians. If so, all Italians should be arrested. This hypothesis does not take into account, vice versa, that, in reality, there are the corrupt, but there are also the good people; there are the public officials who get corrupted and the good ones; there are the magistrates, the financiers or the carabinieri who get corrupted and there are the good ones. I pray, then, that my colleagues do not make self-harm, because comparing us to the countries of the Third World and to the most corrupt of Africa puts this reality totally in contrast to what is the effectiveness of a phenomenon that is still serious, that we rightly fight. When Mr D'Ascola speaks, to a certain extent I regret it, because he also brings us back to very complex technical and legal issues, which cannot be resolved with emotion. I thank, therefore, Senator Barani, but inform my colleagues that, unfortunately, those that also the OECD has reported, speaking again of Italy the other day, are news that bounce abroad, but that start from Italy, from our national self-harm, from our talk to us, from our pessimism and that represent a reality that, fortunately, is curable, if we intervene decisively against the corrupt and if instead it is not a situation that has been reported (that 60 billion euros per year) for which there would be nothing to do but close the whole of Italy and put in jail all the Italians, that does not seem to me to be our goal. [[Applause from Senators Albertini and Barani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u134	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,336 tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.337, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Buccarella and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on the first part of Amendment 1,338, until the words "from the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1.338 and amendment 1.339 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,340, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Stefani, have you accepted the rewording of amendment 1,341 proposed by the rapporteur? STEFANI (LN-Aut). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,341 (text 2) which is identical to Amendment 1,342, on which a request for a secret ballot has been made.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u135	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u137	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, even though amendment 1.342 has had the favourable opinion of the Government and the rapporteur, I would like to explain the reason for this amendment because you will remember that such measures were proposed by the late Michele Coiro and myself at the time of terrorism in the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Many, including Senator Lumia, will recall that in the past legislature I proposed a series of strengthening rules in this direction with regard to the Mafia. So, as long as it's terrorism or mafia, I think it's right, but I never accepted, from a moral point of view, the identification of repentance in this matter because I still believe, perhaps wrong, in a state that, through the norm, tends to indicate also a level of culture, of acceptability of the rules at the basis of legality. Instead, we must achieve this goal, as Sciascia said and as she will remember, causing many to be traitors. That is why I have tabled Amendment No 1.342: it has led me to present it with the madness of the high penalties we have witnessed. However, I want to reaffirm the values in which I believe: a legislator must issue rules that are indicative of what is the citizen's model that respects legality, the citizen's model that renounces, that rejects any hypothesis of corruption. Dear Senator Giarrusso, corruption means more than bribes. Corruption is also the case of those who get different uses such as professional assignments or those who go hand in hand with some exponent of the mafia and maybe get photographed with these people. That, Mr President, is the reality. And then just giving these people the chance to get a reduced sentence was something that bothered me. I would have preferred clear, balanced rules that would give a serious indication of the fight against corruption but, at the same time, would give citizens an indication of what legality is and how to behave in civil life. But since from the point of view of the severity of the sentence you have done things that repugnant me, I was forced to build this hypothesis of reduction from a third to two thirds of the penalty, instead of half. The model you have chosen, therefore, does not give a strong indication in the sense of legality but rather says: corrupt, do what you have to do, then repent and make a contribution by identifying someone else of those responsible. This is a little shameful, Minister, but it only serves to rebalance the crazy legislation we have voted on so far. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u138	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u140	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I am a little embarrassed after Mr Giovanardi's speech. If I have understood correctly - if that is the case, Mr President - my colleague says that the President of the Court of Auditors, at the opening of the judicial year, gives us figures that are only perceived. When he says corruption is 60 or 100 billion a year, does he say things perceived and not real? It's of unheard of gravity. It is as if a doctor perceives an illness and cures it according to perception and not the reality of the facts. It can't be. Mr Giovanardi, it is not possible because, if that were the case, it is necessary to intervene immediately because a body of the State cannot do this against its country. GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). He never said that. I denied it. Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). So, it is not true that there are 60 or 100 billion corruptions. But do they give the numbers? And we parliamentarians are saying that we are a corrupt country, aren't we? We talk about 60 billion a year and it is not true and foreign investors do not come to invest in Italy because we give the possibility and excuses not to come? Continuing this way - it concerns us all - anyone who wins a public contest, in popular belief, is one who bought it, who has corrupted it, including retired ones and who no longer do magistrates. If you go around and ask about Mr. Lucio Barani, who competed in the judiciary in 1950, they'll tell you he bought it. This is where we will all end up; no one excluded. You too, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Barani, I would like to refer you to the subject of the amendment for which you asked to speak for an explanation of vote. The theme is collaboration. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senator Gentile]] Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). I was getting there after this argument, which in medical terms is called a medical history. I know you want your treatment right away, but history is a mandatory ride to be a good doctor. I now come to amendments 1.341 (text 2) and 1.342. It is correct because terrorism and mafia events are serious and it is right to switch from a third to a half to a third to two thirds. But does that apply to everyone? Not for everyone: for certain left, for the terrorist Cesare Battisti, it is not valid. He must be free in Brazil. Instead, two kids who did their duty, the maròs who are in India, are in prison for terrorism. [[Comments from the PD Group]] You have to try to hit the terrorists and not let them in by weakening the country. This is a risk perceived by all Italians. The goodness and perbenism of our free borders can bring damage and terrorists to Italy, which we must arrest. We must try to leave out those who have actually committed a crime and not because they sense that they can commit it. That is why they must be imprisoned and not with doubt. The Latins used to say, "In dubio pro reo." Since we were the homeland of culture with this great people two thousand years ago, let us try to carry it forward in this Parliament more guaranteeing and less justiceist.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u141	We greet the students, students and teachers of the Istituto tecnico stato commerciale and for geometries "Vilfredo Pareto" of Pozzuoli, in the province of Naples, who follow our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u142	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u144	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, we shall vote in favour of these two amendments 1.341 (text 2) and 1.342. We have been interrogating ourselves in recent years, in the fight against corruption, on how to break the bond that is created between corrupt and corrupt. In our country, the only case among the advanced countries, we historically have another case, that of concussion. And there too one wondered how to break this bond. And this constraint was broken by the possibility of the concussion to make a contribution, to release the criminal responsibility and to ensure that, through a delegated responsibility, it could circumvent the rigors of the law. It's true. On this case at international level there have been many reproaches to our country. We were even invited to eliminate the crime of concussion, to transfer everything on corruption and, through the redefinition of the crime of concussion and aggravating, to re-understand and strike all the protagonists of corruption. The Severino law included the condemnation of the concussion, but the penalty remained very low, creating an incentive to break the link that, historically, had given some results in the investigation phase: beyond the evaluation that could be formulated on these results. Now you keep that implant. The concussion of not being attacked and, therefore, of having an incentive to break that bond is always left in condition. As the rapporteur said, the government and the majority believe it is a mistake to go back, a mistake, among other things, sanctioned and indicated by the international community. We had another route, which we'll evaluate later: that of the undercover agent, provided for by our code. This figure must not be demonized a priori, but it has many contraindications, because many careful operators point out that the use of the undercover agent, precisely in the crimes of corruption has contraindications because it tends to intervene on the incitement-induction effect, risking, in fact, to create a condition of opacity that, in the end, both investigative and procedural, can paradoxically create conditions of impunity. That's why the choice to use the proven premium institution can innovate in the fight against corruption and give better results. Both on the investigative level, in fact, both on the procedural and legal level, there is a consolidated (formed in our country in the fight against terrorism and in the fight against the mafia) that can be transferred in the fight against corruption to give good results. We have accepted these amendments precisely because they go in this direction and, therefore, we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u146	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u147	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, since I understand that Senator Caliendo will vote in favour of this amendment, I will not vote. I would like to address the Minister because I want to take up a passage from his reply. You see, Minister, this rule, regardless of the amendment, draws and clearly identifies how the Government, when acting in specific matters, has had corruptive systems on the horizon, but not corruption or "routine" concussion. Basically, in having to attack a phenomenon that was not random and episodic (because episodic and random is that phenomenon that is repeated with reference to different situations), but having at heart the corruptive systems that often accompany the great works, the Government has thought to insert the premiere legislation. This is evident from the text, which partly repeats the wording of the premium legislation on terrorism and organised crime, but which basically aims to prevent the criminal action from being brought to further consequences: obviously this does not concern the instant crime that is corruption or concussion, despite the acrobatics of the cassation. The text then talks about ensuring the proof of crimes - and in a synallagmatic report the proof of crimes is very simple - that is, to identify the others responsible. What's more, in this text? There is also the seizure of the sums. It is clear that the adverb effectively, to which the rapporteur referred, cannot be considered in absolute terms, but in relative terms, with respect to the actual fact which is the subject of the abstract case. That is to say, Minister, that in the event that the corruptor, through his propalations, obtains the seizure of the sum paid, perhaps indicating the foreign account on which he paid it, it will be really difficult to deny that corruptor the particular mitigating circumstance that we foresee today, because it certainly ensures the seizure of the sum and its conduct, absolutely not effective, is certainly effective compared to the individual case. I listened to Senator Lumia, in a historical reconstruction of the past, and I was deeply perplexed, because that I remember, in 1992, at the time of Tangentopoli few were the condemnations for corruption, but very many were those for concussion and indeed - if we want to say it to the end - was favored a state that aimed towards concussion, because it was the system and the way to avoid the relapse, from the point of view of the penalty, that was proper of the concussion. By this I mean that when we are out of the corruptive systems, but also when we are inside the same, it is the sycophant, it is the one who speaks that basically marks the path of the investigation, saying, for example: It's true: I gave money to a public officer, because I was induced or forced by the same public official. So, Minister, if this is true - and I believe on the basis of previous experience it may be difficult to forget - let's see how these rules connect with each other. The pseudo-coruttorr's statement will move on to the concussion, probably you will not be able to prove the concussion by compulsion, but it will prove the concussion by induction - in the end what is needed? - and on the penalty provided for in the second paragraph of Article 319 -quater of the penal code, indeed reduced for the concussive subject, will affect the strong decrease provided for by the text under consideration. This means, Minister, that the fundamental error of this bill, that is to say, having imagined a single legislation for the different types of corruption, instead of imagining corruption (and similar) - a crime against public administration and corruption (and similar) - a crime against the national economy, will in reality lead to never seeing the corruptor in prison. And this is because he will somehow be able to convince the existence of concussion by compulsion is because, if he were to limit himself to concussion by induction, his penalty would obviously be very reduced. This is the real problem with the draft law under consideration. I believe that this increase in sentence from one third to two thirds, which is intended to apply to all corruptors, is indeed an out-of-work and is not a useful tool for blocking corruption. What is the need for the corruptor to have access to what you imagined to be the conditional plea, the return of money for access to the plea, if by virtue of this rule, being sufficient to ensure the seizure of the proceeds of the crime, he will escape the prison however having a much greater decrease in penalty than the one provided in abstract from the plea? Minister, I do not think that I should put this to your attention - I will certainly be wrong, but if I do so it will be in good faith - matters which have no legal sense or are very far from the judicial practice of recent years. The measure will go as far as the House, however, Minister, as a former Minister of Justice I would be grateful, once the propaganda wave has calmed down, if you were to reflect on the point. In the House you can still change this text, you can still imagine a system of contrast to the great corruption more efficient than you have anticipated and, if ever from the House a text to this end, be quiet, Minister, that just as we have not done obstructionism in this branch of Parliament we will not do so in the other. In fact, we have the same interest that you, and that all the senators, have in combating corruption in a serious way, but to counter it in accordance with the general principles of our system, while respecting the constitutional guarantees of all citizens. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u150	Mr D'Ascola, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to speak in order to stress only the contradictory nature of the opposition's speeches. For a verse we are concerned about the minimum thresholds of the penalty because it is not compatible with the premium treatments. But then we complain about the mitigating circumstances that make these minimum penalties compatible with the premium treatments. I realize that it is difficult to argue on two completely opposite sides, claiming to oppose the circumstances against which a choice should be made in one direction or another. However, I think it is unthinkable to offer the House views that are contrary - I repeat - to standards that are also useful to solve those problems of the adaptability of minimum penalties to situations that are equally minimal. With this premise, I believe that this rule is functional, as I said in my previous speech, to determine that increase for investigations that escapes with reference to the punishableness of the indeed induced. So it is also a functional rule to solve this problem, I said when I set out the reasons for my opposition to amendments aimed at deleting the second paragraph of Article 319-c. This rule, however, is also useful to solve the problem, as I said earlier, of edittal thresholds considered too high; that is, those who want to benefit from a treatment conformed, or better to say compatible with the premium measures, know in advance that there is the way of an effective and functional contribution in an effective way to allow the increase of the cognitive heritage of the prosecutor, therefore the system on this side is rational. There are alternative rites, general mitigating circumstances and, in addition, the attenuating of a collaboration that allows those who have been identified not only to contribute effectively to the investigations, but also to have sanctioning treatment in accordance with what could be a premium measure. It must also be said that there is even a complaint about the exceptional nature of the reduction of the penalty, so the contradiction is also manifested on this further side, when it is argued that it is excessive to reduce the penalty to two thirds. There is to be observed, and the observation is of a technical nature only, that the attenuante is determined with reference to the minimum by a third party, i.e. one cannot go below the third, and with reference to the maximum no more than the two thirds, but then in the intermediate space between a third and two thirds the judge will be able to detail the reduction of the penalty treatment to the importance, the effectiveness and the profit of the collaboration, as well as to the gravity of the fact, which remains, regardless of the collaboration. The rule is therefore not to say that the sentence is reduced by two thirds, so that it can be said that the reduction is so imposing as to impose, inter alia, a compulsory reduction on the judge, but the minimum of the reduction that should have been envisaged is referable to the category of common circumstances and with common effect: "by a third party," the maximum of the reduction of these circumstances, but then ranges up to the "two thirds", allowing the judge a concrete determination corresponding to the actual gravity of the fact, regardless of the collaboration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u153	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to withdraw my signature from Amendment 1.342. After the intervention of Senator Palma, those who have the ability to reason realize that the reasoning of President Palma was correct also from the exquisitely technical point of view. To answer the rapporteur, Senator D'Ascola, I simply say that the adaptability of minimum penalties must be imagined in the determination of minimum penalties, not through a system of reducing minimum penalties due to the behaviour of the person accused of this crime during the proceedings. I therefore believe that the judges must do their job, that they must identify the evidence and possibly seize the sums, but that they cannot rely, as in the past, on those who go to the public prosecutor's offices and, in order to avoid imprisonment for themselves, accuse others. On the basis of this reasoning, I can only withdraw the signature from amendment 1.342 and at the most I feel I have to abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u154	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u156	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, I rise to state the position of the Five Star Movement. We followed the discussion and appreciated the positions expressed, but with a view to balancing the sanctioning power of the State, which must be exercised, the 5 Star Movement seems exaggerated a reduction that can reach two thirds of the penalty, which in practice, starting from the minimums and with all the other mechanisms of the code of which we know the effects, would be reduced to nothing. Therefore, the position of the 5 Star Movement on this amendment will be justified against it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He asked Minister Orlando to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u157	Mr President, it is embarrassing for us to have to defend an amendment from its proposers. This condition is quite unusual. However, I believe that with this amendment we strengthen an indication contained in the text, which does not derive, as I believe it has argued - forcing a little'reading the ratio of the measure as a whole - President Palma, from having put at the center of our attention the 'corruption' again coined, or rather the one that has developed around the great works, linked to the construction of networks that have a solidity and diffusion. It comes simply from the assumption, within our system, compatible with the obligatory prosecution, of institutions that exist in many other countries, which allow to break the corruptive pact. I would remind you that countries that are not suspicious from the point of view of adherence to the principles of the rule of law, in which, however, there is no obligation to prosecute, provide in practice forms of incentive for cooperation with those who pursue criminal proceedings that go far beyond the proposal contained in the amendment under discussion. After that, President Palma put another question incidentally, pointing out that we have not dealt with the evolution of the corrupting phenomenon or perhaps we have dealt with it by forcing the previous plant, in this way I'm gonna disintegrate him. I don't think so. I believe that the flexibility that has now taken on the system, with the introduction of the induction crime and with the reward mechanisms, makes it possible to take account of this development. However, I want to say this because I do not want to drop the positive stimulus of President Palma's intervention, I think we can discuss how corrupt networks are faced, that they are no longer traditional corruption and that perhaps they are not always superimposed on the phenomenon of mafia association, because they are a dimension of the phenomenon. I must point out, however, that the amendment did not go in this direction, not even by President Palma's Group. This is a debate which, in my opinion, should be conducted by holding together a series of instruments, which I believe should all be linked. I am referring to the possibility of corruption between private individuals, of which we are waiting for an initial application and the relative consolidation of the jurisprudence, and to the issue of the trafficking of influences. I have asked the rapporteur and the Commission not to affect these offences, because we are waiting on them to know what the application of the case law is and we cannot change a figure of crime before it has been applied. I am also referring to an organic discipline of the lobby system, distinguishing it from the criminal field. I believe that if we had a discussion that held these elements together, we would seriously deal with the system. In the conditions given and on the basis of the traditional system, however, I believe that we have introduced some elements that allow us to take account of this evolution, which has been rapid and will be even more so in the coming years, because we know that criminal phenomena often evolve much faster than legislation. If we want to read those kinds of phenomena and interpret them, I believe that keeping these things together is an essential condition, to which we do not subtract. However, we are asking that this subject not be used simply to question the work done so far, but rather to propose another working ground, which does not compromise the rapid adoption of this measure, but which allows us to open up another field of work and to identify new tools. [[Applause from Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u158	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u159	Senator Caliendo, they've already spoken for your group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u160	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr. President, having spoken to the government... You are a signatory to the amendment. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, as I am always honest, I greatly appreciated the speech just made by the Minister. Minister, if you had done so in the Commission, perhaps you could have opened up a space for a different collaboration also from the opposition, with a serious assessment, precisely on the basis of the principles you have stated and of what we are voting on, including from the point of view of penalties. I am convinced of what you have said and, for this reason, I have spoken to thank you, hoping that these things will be said and done in order to achieve an agreement and a unity and not at a time when it is only a matter of gaining consensus, like mine, which then do not produce results.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u161	I'm asking to talk. [[Comments from FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u163	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, on a point of order. When the Government intervenes, is the discussion reopened or not? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In the meantime, you have the power to speak. The Government intervened in response to a speech by the President of the Commission. Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). So are the surgeries reopened or are we gonna form it as appropriate? This is a point of order, so you must answer me exactly. I did not speak now, but I asked you whether the Rules of Procedure reopened the debate or not.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u164	The Minister has not made any communications, so it is not considered to have opened the debate again. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). However, I believe that the political point is important. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the amendments before us. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I do not insist on the request for a secret ballot. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,341 (text 2), tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario, identical to amendment 1,342, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.343.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u165	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u167	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, this amendment, which I have already outlined earlier, aims to draw attention to the fact that corruption is sometimes also generated by attitudes of public offices, which do not do what they have to do or do it in unspeakable times. Of course, a daction can shorten the time. And here it is not a matter of having or not having patience; sometimes there are companies that fail, because even if they have the investment ready or realized, in the absence of stamps or stamps they cannot reach the collections and consequently fail. So, it's important that there's this counterpart. I would like to remind you that the phenomenon cannot be reduced to mere repression or mere increase in penalties because, with regard to statistics on corruption, every day we are hammered by the media (90 percent, 102 percent), but - I repeat - it is perceived corruption. The main question that is asked is: "According to you, is the government fighting corruption effectively? It's not even a perception of corruption, it's a perception of what the government does. Now, considering the anti-politics and anti-democracy that tend to turn, whatever is preceded by the expression "in your opinion the government is effectively" will receive a negative response from the respondents, especially when it comes to judging the actions of an opposing political party government. There are much more serious statistics that are not made - I have found, however, only in countries of new democracy of Eastern Europe - based on the question, for example, "in your country there is corruption," because otherwise they would become a poll of opinion: it is like saying whether the country is well governed or not. The question that is being asked, however, is whether the person who is responding to the survey has actually received a request for money or other useful to obtain something that is his right; or whether in the work he does he has received the proposal to take money and in return do something contrary to his duties: this is a serious statistic and gives much more reliable results. Years ago this investigation was also carried out in Italy by an international body and the result was that about 2.5 percent of Italians interviewed - of course it was done on a sample, because you can't interview 60 million Italians - replied that in fact, in the last three years they had been asked for bribes to do something contrary to their duties, or, on the other hand, that 1.5 million people had been offered money to commit some crime. But then it was discovered, according to data from the Court of Auditors and the Anti-Corruption Service - we talk about several years ago, when there was not yet the Anti-Corruption Authority - that complaints for corruption in a year had been 221 according to the Court of Auditors and 104 according to the Anti-Corruption Service. Evidently there is some problem, given the diversity of data on such small numbers. However, we take the Court of Auditors' figures as good: 221 complaints for corruption and 219 for concussion of 1.5 million people who say they have received that kind of request. Now, beyond the statistics, of the famous 60 billion euros, we should understand if the phenomenon really affected 1.5 million people, as they say, or if it is a general complaint; because if from this 1,5 million interviewed we remove 90 percent (which perhaps in turn reports a non-personal fact, perhaps having just heard that they are asking for bribes), 150,000 people remain, only 400 of whom they complain. It's here, then, that you have to try to work. It is necessary to protect those who are in front of an official who asks or makes them understand, because it is difficult to make explicit and direct request (to give me a tot, and I will do this) but probably camp the most elaborate bureaucratic, legalistic, administrative and regulatory reasons not to give what you are entitled to, to want something, while in the meantime you cannot be exercise your rights. Obviously there are still too many cases for which it is thought that denouncing is of no use, because there is a risk that the denouncing person will get even more in trouble than the one being denounced, because to denounce certain powerful characters there is a risk of going wrong. It is in this direction, if anything, that action should be taken. That was my amendment. However, in the face of the rapporteur's opinion against it and the fear that it will not be properly incorporated from a technical point of view, I shall withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u168	Amendment 1.343 is therefore withdrawn. I call on Senator Buccarella and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on the first part of Amendment 1,344, until the following words are taken: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1.344 and amendment 1.345 are therefore excluded. The rapporteur and the representative of the government have asked for the rewording of the agenda G1,100. Senator Caliendo, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u169	Mr President, I accept the rewording, but I believe that we should briefly explain this agenda, which was presented in May 2014. I would like to take up the Minister's speech to say that if such a speech had been made on the basis of this agenda, we would probably be in another reality today. I say this because the Minister understood, in the debate that took place in this House, that Book II of the Criminal Code should be rewritten, because there are new cases, new behaviours and - it is a consideration that the Minister accepted - a different assessment of normal contracts, of major works. This is an overall assessment which cannot be without a reconsideration of Title XIII (Dei delitti contro il patrimony) of the penal code. I apologise if I invade a field not entirely legal, but having been forced for years to care about the economy for the effects on justice, we must also worry today about the behaviour that affects justice but that has an influence on the national economy. I think it's time to have a Head of the Criminal Code dedicated to crimes against the national economy. It has nothing to do with Europe or the need to copy others. It has to do with the fact that, as a result of the so-called empty-cars rules, the effectiveness of the rules on crimes against property affecting the national economy has been greatly reduced. On the other hand, we are witnessing a system of our country that is organized into participating societies - I don't know how many thousands, perhaps 8,000 - by local authorities. I have read with pleasure that the draft law presented by Senator Zanda on the reform of the procurement system has been scheduled in the Commission. Senator Zanda, I haven't read your text yet, but I remember 20 years ago, by supporting the prosecution in one of the clean Mani proceedings, I argued that it was necessary to rewrite the procurement rules, in particular on ongoing revisions. There are two possibilities for corruption: either the ongoing revision is subject to the same rules as the tendering procedure, or we decide that it cannot go beyond certain economic thresholds. It is there, in fact, that cancer is nested. Look, we need transparency in the economic system. I have tabled, as we shall see, a number of amendments with regard to transparency (some have already been accepted by the Government in the Commission and others I hope will be accepted here), but it is clear that we must ensure, through preventive monitoring, that authorities intervene that can prevent events of criminal importance from taking place. I do not know how many of you have attended - as I did - the Centre for State Reform, which was the centre for cultural and political elaboration of the old Communist Party. The Center for State Reform was discussed and it was argued that our Constitution is based on the system of controls. It is only on the system of controls that our democracy is founded. But this system of controls must be linked to criminal sanctions and criminal rules. How can an economic system go forward if it is attacked by the rules on rights against property, which no longer have any deterrent effect? Then we also get to the madness of two carabinieri robbing: probably the economic situation of some families also leads to these madness. But let's look at the economic reality of our country. We are talking about the small deal, Mr President, which has increased enormously over the last two years and which there is no longer an arrest. The small store - you teach me - also covers ten grams of cocaine or heroin, because so the jurisprudence has decided to establish. With regard to this system, we must proceed with a minimum of overall assessment, which concerns the whole situation. The speech that the Minister made just now leads us to say that perhaps we have thought differently in the Commission and no one has followed us. Today, on the one hand, we urge the establishment of rules that have penalties adapted to the gravity of the matter with regard to small traders or corruption for a few thousand euros and, on the other hand, we call not only for stricter penalties, but also for an effective system of control over participating companies, but also for public ones. Mr President, I have appreciated - I do not know how many of you have already read it - the document that was drafted yesterday by the Anti-Bribery Authority and the Ministry of Economy and Finance in the matter of reworking the rules for public companies, even non-participated, in which it is expressed the indication to apply the rules from paragraph 15 to paragraph 36 of the Severino law concerning transparency. I hope that, when we discuss the amendments, there will be a consequent behavior. As I said, I welcome the rewording, however, Mr Deputy Minister (let us draw your attention since the Minister is absent), for what I have just said I hope that "considering the opportunity" does not just mean giving a little content, a candy to a disco child. I hope that the Government will really want to open a serious debate on these issues, because only then can we say that we have done our duty, that is to say that we have helped not to put people in jail, since it is not necessary, but to reform a criminal system in line with our aims and, at the same time, to make a serious contribution to the national economy. I believe that there are at least 30 senators in this House who are better at economics than I am who can and possibly better motivate what I have just said.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u170	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u172	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the reformulation suggested by the Government, which I do not think I accept, is actually no small matter. Basically, the term "modulated" is to be deleted. Now, if the Government is convinced to intervene in order to make a fair distinction between the crimes of corruption that affect the country's national economy and the crimes of "common" corruption, which do not have such a strong impact, I wonder why delete the word "modulated" when, during the examination of this measure, even in the Chamber, it could intervene by including this, in our view necessary, modification of the text. Now accept the principle and give a favourable opinion on this agenda, which closes the doors to every change, I wonder what that means. Why does the Government accept the invitation to supplement the text and not to modify it already? What does it mean to integrate? It is not enough for me so, as far as I am concerned, I do not accept the rewording of the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u173	Senator Falanga, the reformulation of the agenda G1,100 was accepted by Senator Caliendo, who is the first signatory to this agenda. You, in line with what you said, can withdraw your signature from the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u174	Mr President, I would ask you to withdraw the signature of the agenda G1,100 and ask if it is not in my power to keep another agenda, on my own, and to put it to the vote of the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u175	No, Senator Falanga, he's not in his faculties. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1, on which a request for a secret ballot has been made. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask the required number of senators to support this request. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of Rule 1 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency declares that amendments 3.0.304, 5.0.302, 7.0.301, 7.0.302, 7.0.303, 7.0.304, 7.0.305, 7.0.306, 9.322, 9.322a, 11.0.300, 11.0.301, 11.0.302 and 11.0.309 cannot be proposed. Amendment 4.0.303 is also inadmissible, as it does not have an amending scope, as well as proposals 1.0.305, 1.0.306, 1.0.307, 1.0.308, 1.0.309 and 1.0.310. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.300, tabled by Senator Puglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.0.304.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u176	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u178	BUCCARELLA (M5S). On Amendment 1.0.304, my Group intends to propose that the agenda be changed. However, I see that the Minister is not here at the moment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Deputy Minister's here. BUCCARELLA (M5S). I've had a chance to relate to the Minister before, and I don't know if the Deputy Minister is aware of the evaluations. Mr President, I would ask you to put it aside. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What's your request? BUCCARELLA (M5S). It is to turn it into an agenda with a rewording for which the Minister should be present. As the Minister returns to the Chamber and you decide on the provision, I note that there is a material error in the title of the amendment, which should be: Undercover operations. The words: 'provoking agent' are to be considered as 'cassate' because there is no discipline of the provoking agent in this amendment which we are about to request to be transformed into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u179	I have the provision of amendments 1.0.304 and 1.0.303. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.0.301.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u180	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u182	RICHIUTI (PD). Since the first part of my amendment is almost identical to that of Mr Buccarella's amendment 1.0.304, I would also ask for a change in the agenda if the Minister or the Deputy Minister are in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u183	At this point I have the provision of amendment 1.0.301 as well as amendment 1.0.302. Amendments 1.0.305, 1.0.306, 1.0.307, 1.0.308, 1.0.309 and 1.0.310 are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u184	Mr President, I have tabled a number of amendments to Article 2, which amends Article 317 of the Criminal Code in the matter of concussion. Senator Malan held a good disquisition earlier, even with statistical data (i.e. reporting numbers and concreteness, and not words), when he told us that there are only 221 complaints for corruptive acts and 104 complaints for concussion. That is why I want to tell you that, in fact, this great epidemic is not felt. In his speech - which I share - Mr Malan mentioned, without of course revealing the source, the Commission set up at the Ministry of Public Service by Minister Patroni Griffi in 2012, during the Monti Government which led to the famous and unenforced (or applied only to certain sides) Severino law. Mr Malan referred to how Mr Patroni Griffi, in this Commission, said that perhaps we had to study delays in defining administrative practices. He spoke of the poor functioning of public procurement, the inadequacy, if not even of the uselessness, some public works, the inadequacy of certain public services and the inappropriateness of certain public supplies. All this did not lead to that figure of just 100 million in three years, but led to the figure of over 300 billion in three years. The proportion (or disproportion) is before everyone's eyes. Ladies and gentlemen, you do not want to intervene on this waste of public money, on mischievousness, on frenziedness, on unnecessary bureaucracy and on the 1,000 passages. You do not know that a citizen who is to start a business needs municipal authorizations, from the province, from the region, from the EIA committee. Then, however, for the high speed in Val di Susa, a committee of twenty people, with a sign, blocks everything and brings in thousands of public agents distracted by the attention of the criminal facts and terrorism that are affecting countries close to us: from France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Tunisia. A sign is enough to block everything! And then we wonder why foreign investors do not come to invest in Italy, when there is a Parliament that makes these useless laws! The real laws we have to make are those of social interest: they are those bridges that are made without access roads. It's those roads that end up in the rivers that no longer have bridges. These are the works that we see in certain television broadcasts (such as "Strivia la notizia", which sometimes make surveys and services that discover these useless.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u185	Senator Barani, I would like to refer you to Amendment 2,300, which calls for the deletion of Article 2, containing a new wording of Article 317 of the Criminal Code, concerning concussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u186	Mr President, you will have seen that I have tabled other amendments to Article 2. I am illustrating them all in a single speech, precisely so as not to take precious time from the work of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u187	Stick to the theme.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u188	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). He told me that I should only speak on the deleterious amendment, but I would point out that there are others that you, perhaps because of an oversight, did not notice. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is not an oversight, we follow an order in the illustration. Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). I said I'd illustrate them all. So, Mr President, on the subject of concussion, I wonder how it is possible that in a region - near me is Senator Gibiino and therefore I take Sicily for example - there is a governor who owes 120 million to a single company for four years, I quote, Engineering. How does this company survive? How can you not fail? That is what we have to ask ourselves. I made an example, but I could make others for Lazio, Campania, Tuscany, Liguria and Lombardy. It is on other issues that there is an epidemic, a regulatory vacuum, that bad business is carried out, with contracts that do not serve anything because registration is allowed only to certain companies friends. That's where you have to go and see. Everything is regular, no lace is paid: but it is a pity that the work is of no use, dear Senator Falanga. There is the damage, corruption, concussion and the sin, there is everything and more. Certainly we are talking about a crime of great social interest and here, in the temple of democracy, I feel merchants that should be hunted: but I pretend not to hear because I am not Christ and obviously I do not have the whip to hunt them. Therefore, in a provocative way, through allegorical, provocative amendments, then declared inadmissible, I tried to raise awareness of the issue and I said why we do not whip them. We could go back to the Pica law of 1863, because if we compare the concussion and corruption to the brigandage of those times, as foreseen in the edict of Vittorio Emanuele II, we can take them to the square and shoot them. But as a guarantor I do not wish the death of the deed. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Or we could set up special courts, where it is desirable to go, as well as that those suffering from a certain orthopedic disease do not go to the gynecologist. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that the dose, so the sanction... (Senator Cioffi mimics the gesture of injecting drugs into the forearm.) Someone's on drugs. [[Comments from M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u189	Senator Barani, please do not address your colleagues in this way and also do not present any amendments that have been declared inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u190	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). I'm ready to do the hair analysis, too, and I think if it was done, they'd find a lot of positives. I would definitely be negative. It's a challenge. Come and I'll show you your hair. Maybe the dose, when it's too much, makes these jokes. I am referring to the sanctioning dose, far from me to refer to other types of dose. A cubic inch of potassium in a vein is not like a cubic inch of distilled water. You die with potassium, and we kill the country with these laws. Mr President, if I take the pusher, I'll beat him, because he cut it badly. [[Repented comments from PD and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u191	The remaining amendments are intended to explain to you.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u192	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u193	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u194	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u195	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,300. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2,300, tabled by Senator Barani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2301, on which a request for a secret ballot has been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u196	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u198	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, we withdraw Amendment 2,301.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u199	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u201	BUCCARELLA (M5S). I'll do it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u202	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u203	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u204	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, as one of the signatories to Amendment 2301, I ask that it not be withdrawn. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As you know, the first signatory is available. MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). In this case, I shall do so myself and ask for the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u205	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u206	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u207	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I do not insist on the request for a secret ballot.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u208	I therefore call on Senator Casson and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 2301, which was subsequently withdrawn and taken over by Senators Buccarella and Mussini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2302 tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.303, on which a request for a secret ballot has been tabled. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I do not insist on the request for a secret ballot. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.303 tabled by Senator Barani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,304.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u209	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u210	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u211	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for a reflection on this amendment, perhaps for a reformulation, because at the end of the day it provides for an aggravated hypothesis of concussion, where the concussion is carried out by a member of the judicial order. I would like to remind everyone that there is a more serious and autonomous hypothesis of corruption whenever that corruption is carried out by a member of the judicial order. Since I believe that there must be symmetry in our code, just as we foresee an aggravated hypothesis (corruption in judicial acts) as committed by a member of the judicial order, I do not think that we can easily liquidate, beyond the wording, an amendment that tends to establish a similar figure with reference to the most serious crime of concussion. If the rapporteur and the government agree, it would probably be appropriate, especially since we are moving towards a conclusion, to put aside this amendment, also in order to allow, if necessary, reformulations and to deepen the matter, because objectively there would be a vacuum. For corruption yes and for concussion no. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur maintain the opposite view?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u212	The rapporteur is, of course, not opposed to the provision, but the contrary opinion on the amendment is reiterated.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u213	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u214	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u215	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u216	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, we have had the opportunity to talk about corruption in judicial proceedings and, therefore, about corrupt judges, and the Government has felt, with the rapporteur, that it will increase the sentence. Of course, I voted against that point in Article 1. For the judge who corrupts you increase the penalty and for what is subject to concussion, for the judge concussor, no. Being a concussor is something we allow the judge. This majority, that is, considers the concussion less serious than corruption and, therefore, a judge who corrupts pays pledge with the attack and the concussor not, just to entice him. Why this difference? What's the logic? What legal principle can make two crimes, both of social alarm, committed by those who administer justice, the final funnel that must be judged and that acts for personal purposes? There is a constitutional principle of equality, for which we are all equal in the face of the law and, therefore, for those who take those decisions, both in corruption and in concussion, there must be two aggravating factors, otherwise we must remove the burden in the event of corruption. It is not possible to establish levels of seriousness or tenuity of crimes which are of social alarm because we have seen that, in fact, while there are 227 cases of corruption, there are only 104 cases of concussion, so that Parliament and this majority may disregard them. And then, once we find the judge concussed or corrupt, do we re-judge him? Are we gonna send him back to sentence or investigate? The surgeon who misses the surgery and kills the patient remove the scalpel and send him to work. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] The noises in the temple of democracy! [[Comments from Senators Bulgarelli and Cioffi.]] No, I'm a doctor. Ma'am, they're bothering me! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, start finishing. Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). I'm done, Mr. President. The government didn't want to put him away. Courage, as the Manzoni said, can you quote again? I don't know. President Renzi says that Manzoni can be quoted sometimes not and sometimes yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please finish! Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). The Manzoni said that courage either you have it or you do not have it and here the majority have courage only for demagogy and for a false populism, and certainly not to do what they have allowed us and told us to do the constituent Fathers, to whom we certainly do not do a good service at this time. That is why I call on my fellow Members to vote in favour of Amendment 2,304.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u217	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u218	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u219	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would urge Senator Barani to withdraw Amendment 2,304. Look, there's a perpetual ban already. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Barani, do you want to withdraw the amendment? CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). However, Mr President, let me explain why. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, I'm sorry, but we can't keep doing this. Did Senator Barani just strengthen his amendment by explaining it and invite him to withdraw it? CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the increase of half leads to a minimum sentence of nine years and a maximum sentence of eighteen years. Which means - and you teach me this - that even with the general attenuators you are always over five years old, and with the five years you trigger the perpetual ban from public offices. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But here's a pain problem. We are not on the subject of ban, which is an accessory penalty. I'm sorry to intrude, Senator Caliendo. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Then I ask Senator Barani to withdraw Amendment 2,304. I would have seen much better, in disciplinary legislation, the prediction of a hypothesis of dismissal (typical for a magistrate), since it is a flawed one. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This already exists. Senator Barani, will you withdraw Amendment 2,304? Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u220	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u221	You have the right to do so. But you've already spoken, Senator Palma.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u222	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I did not make an explanation of vote, but I simply posed a problem. Senator Caliendo also merely asked Senator Barani to withdraw the amendment. Very briefly, I want to say one simple thing, by expressing my Group's support. In short, you have to explain to me one thing: why, if corruption concerns a judge, the penalty is increased, because different is the penalty for corruption in judicial acts compared to normal corruption, and instead for the concussion the penalty must be absolutely equal, even when the concussion is done by the judge? I cannot understand the reason why we aggravate the crime of corruption and do not aggravate the most serious crime of concussion, when basically a person's life is in the hands of that judge who goes to ask for money. That's why I asked for a provision. Now let's forget about the question of perpetual ban; here the interesting thing is that there is a half-penalty increase. So I want to say one thing: do you really think that there can be no concussor judge, even though there is a corrupt judge? But what legislation are we doing? Therefore, since no provision is possible, I hope that Senator Barani will at least remove the perpetual ban from public offices, because this part is overcome by general discipline. If the words "If the fact is committed by a judge or a prosecutor, the penalty for imprisonment has increased by half," the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u223	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u224	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u225	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I would like to put forward a rewording of Amendment 2,304, eliminating the words: 'and there is a perpetual ban from public offices'.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u226	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2,304 (text 2), tabled by Senator Barani, until the words "is increased." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 2,304 (text 2) and Amendment 2,305 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2, on which a request for a secret ballot has been made. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask the required number of senators to support this request. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u227	We greet the students and students of the Istituto 1° Comprehensivo "Brandi-Morelli" in Carovigno, in the province of Brindisi, who today have followed our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u228	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u229	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u230	STEFANO (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to address you and the Presidency to urge, as a matter of urgency, the reply to Question 4-03612 which I tabled last Thursday, to the address of the President of the Council and the Minister for Economic Affairs, whom I believe to be urgent and important. I am well aware that someone, given the progress made in this parliamentary term on response times, might be surprised by my solicitation, but the issues in question call for extraordinary effort and attention. I am referring to the heavy and absurd economic repercussions that are taking place on people with disabilities as a result of the entry into force of the new rules for the calculation of the ISEE, the indicator of the equivalent economic situation. I would therefore ask you, by any means, to urge the Commission to give an answer as soon as possible to this act of inspection union and, in any case, in time to ensure compliance with the time limits set for tax returns, clarifying, above all, the position that the Government intends to take on this issue, also in the light of the three different sentences of the TAR Lazio, which have cut off, without appeal - I dare say - these new provisions. I would ask you to intervene and to urge the Government because there is a world, unfortunately, of people with disabilities, which is in apprehension and confusion because it does not know how to act in view of tax returns.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-418.ana.u231	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.42 a.m.
