ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 17.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (at 17:33).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u4	At 4 p.m. tomorrow's question time, the Minister of Education, University and Research, Senator Giannini, will answer questions on the following subjects: recruitment, training and career of school teaching staff; questions concerning access to university and recruitment of university teaching staff.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u5	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1209.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u6	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u8	Mr PUGLISI (PD). Mr President, I would very much like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Filippin, and the members of the Commission, the Justice Committee, the Group leaders and the House all for helping to improve the text of the measure we are about to vote on. This bill speaks of the right of children and girls in family custody to the continuity of affections. This is not a measure to turn the foster care into adoption - as someone said - but a point of civilization to protect meaningful relationships, matured in a prolonged period of custody by a minor with the foster family. I would like to remind you that as of December 31, 2012, there were 28,449, of which 14,255 in residential communities and 14.194 in family custody. Of these, 6,750 are entrusted to relatives and 7,444 to third parties, individuals or families, in fact, who have given their great availability with immense generosity. I also want to remember another fact. Thirty - one percent of the foster homes last more than four years and 25 percent of these from two to four years. Therefore, Mr President, it is precisely for this reason that it is so important and it is such a step forward that this bill recognises the right to continuity of affections. The two institutions, I entrust and adopt, remain distinct for requirements and motivations. The requirements for foster care and adoption are different, and so are the theoretical expectations regarding the two institutions. In practice, however, more than half of the trusts are different from what theory would like, because that's life. Sometimes the problems of families of children's origin are not solved. Sometimes they get worse, they get complicated and a child, after a long time who has been in foster care, becomes adoptable. The motivation to require foster care or adoption is also often very different. When you ask for access to the adoption institution the motivation is very simple: the desire of a child or add to your family another than those already existing. Instead, the motivation for custody is to help someone because they are rich in affection, joy and solid living conditions that they decide to share with a child in a time of great difficulty. Another motivation is that of those who decide to take care of their neighbor, and not only in words but in deeds. It is an act of great generosity and responsibility. Those who think of circumventing the rules on adoption using the way of care would actually perform an act with a very high probability of harm, first of all to themselves and then also to the child, and above all would have a little chance of circumventing social services and courts. Therefore, that fear, which today hovered in this House, of the use of the trust in an instrumental way by individuals and then access to adoption, I consider it to be as unlikely as possible. Among other things, even today the courts, sometimes, in the adoption of special cases through Article 44 (d) can give children up to adoption. But above all, I would like to remind this House that we are about to adopt a very long-awaited piece of legislation. That text, which came out of the Justice Commission and which has been further improved today by the contribution of the House, is indeed awaited and received the applause of all the associations on the table for trust and adoption. Many children are waiting for this law to see respect for the integrity of their affections and history. It is precisely to them, in conclusion, that I want to dedicate this vote, that the Democratic Party will carry out with conviction: Thomas, Aurora, Elvira, Giorgia, Cassandra and many other children who have been removed from the people who had raised them for lack of a law. To Carla Forcolin and all those foster mothers who could not protect their children and those magistrates and lawyers who know how to work for the greater interest of children, it is to them that we want to dedicate this law. We shall vote in favour because there are pains, Mr President, which cannot be avoided in life, such as the pain of detachment or abandonment. Then, however, there are painful detachments that can be caused by a bad law or ambiguous law, a law that we are correcting today with the rules under consideration. It is good, then, that a good law can definitively avoid them. This is what we are going to do, guaranteeing all children in family custody the right to the continuity of their affections. [[Applause from the PD and Misto-SEL groups and Senator Berger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u11	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, according to the Group's statement, it was believed that explanations of vote began at 5.30 p.m. I do not believe that all explanations of vote could have been exhausted in ten minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Palma, there were only two groups left, while all the others voted this morning. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I get it. Mr President, you are well aware that the Group of the European Forza Italia is not present in this House, although it has worked very closely with the Commission in drawing up the text which is now at the final vote and which has been broadly unanimous in its adoption in the morning. I realize the irritality of the request, but I would be grateful if you could suspend the work, even for a short time, in order to allow the Group of Forza Italia to carry out its speech with Senator Caliendo and then participate in the vote. (Senator Caliendo enters the Chamber).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u12	Senator Palma, Senator Caliendo has entered at this moment and I am willing to give him the word once he has recovered the oxymetric value. However, we should have waited the course of twenty minutes from the notice and therefore, with the possible request for an electronic vote by Senator Gaetti, who usually does not lack, until 17.53 we could not have voted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u13	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u15	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, first of all I apologise, because at the end of the afternoon sitting I understood that four explanations of vote were missing before the last speech and that I would be the third. Forza Italia will vote strongly in favour of this draft law, which had a genesis in the Commission which has already seen us agree on many points. This is a measure that complements the adoption law, as it affirms two fundamental principles. The first principle is as follows. We are not talking about pre-adoptive custody, but about a crisis situation that lives the family of origin, which is supported through a custody that, according to the law, can have a duration of 24 months, but can be extended for the interests of the child. The provision in the first paragraph raises a problem. In the event that there is a prolonged period of custody, which almost always goes beyond 24 months, what happens? If the foster family meets the requirements of Article 6 of the Adoption Act, can it take part in the adoption? The law says yes: this is the first paragraph. On the basis of the second paragraph, thanks to the rapporteur who has accepted an idea that has emerged from various amendments, there is no need to talk about a prolonged period of custody. In the second subparagraph, reference is made to any period of custody. If emotional, educational relationships have been established between the foster family and the child during that period, it is right that the judge should take account of the child's life, on the basis of the reports of the documented social services. And this is not because there is no confidence in social services: we have full confidence, but there is no doubt that there have been some gaps over the years, some subjective assessments. In the same way as some extended assignments were dependent on the judge who found it easier, in some cases, to extend the 24-month period rather than to assess it in concrete terms. Is this a measure that tends to accomplish what? Is there an interest of the minor in maintaining those relationships that have stabilized or have been realized during the period of custody? In this case the judge, through specific measures, even by summoning the foster family, asks to give a concrete content to this type of affection. Beware: especially if the minor is already 10-12 years old, if those affections and those relationships have stabilized and realized, in fact we already assist, between the intelligent couples who adopt or have the subsequent confidence, to the realization of a relationship with the old foster family. And the judge will have to do this. That's the logic. Article 25 of the Act on Adoption, when it speaks of pre-adoptive custody, says that, after a year of pre-adoptive custody, the judge can arrange for adoption and take into account a number of behaviors. What does the new paragraph, which is added to Article 25, do? In the event that there has been a prolonged period of custody, the rules of the first paragraph of Article 25 must also be implemented in this respect. The idea of valorization is not ours, beware: with the reform of family law in 1975 the family of affections has been greatly valued, the family of human relationships that can be established within the family in fact, within the periods of custody. They are relationships that must be valued, because they are all useful for the growth of the minor. With regard to all this, I have to conclude by saying that Forza Italia votes strongly in favour and feels the need to thank the rapporteur, who has accepted twice the opportunity to correct the text, allowing this measure to be adopted unanimously. Those two corrections are not formal, because they represent two aspects that are made within a system. The first aspect is what I have already mentioned, concerning the consideration of custody regardless of the extended period, present in the second paragraph. The other aspect concerns the provision that the court should also take into account the reports of social workers, provided that they are documented. I believe that this is a demonstration of how Parliament can work and find solutions that are more than suitable for solving so many problems, if we can - as we have done today - reason in terms of the efficiency of the rule that we are going to adopt, passing rules that can produce effects and not distinguishing ourselves on the basis of preconceived positions. For this reason, Mr President, Forza Italia will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from Senators Marinello and Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u16	We greet, in the first-class forums, the students of the Liceo delle scienze umani (Liceo delle scienze), Laura Bassi (Liceo delle scienze umani) in Bologna [[Applause]] and, in the second-order forums, the students of the Commercial Technical Institute of Rovigo, whom we thank for their presence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u19	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u20	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole, in the amended text, with the following title: Amendments to Law No 184, 4 May 1983 on the right to continuity of affection for children and girls in foster care. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u21	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1504, 82, 811, 1233 and 1234. The rapporteur, Senator Filippin, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, who has been very busy with the work of this House these days.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u22	Mr President, I apologise for the undue occupation of the role. I promise that, for a while, I will let the speaker stand go. [[Laughter.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make some preliminary remarks on a measure which not only I, but many people outside this House, consider very important. Each of us, on this subject, could express our own personal opinion: I would instead like to invite the House and the senators to reflect exclusively, and as objectively as possible, on the text fired by the Justice Commission, which is before us today, without letting itself be taken in any way by too personal opinions on the concept of marriage and family. Today, in fact, we are discussing another matter: not of marriage and family, but of remedies and solutions to facilitate life for those who have not had an ideal or simply normal marriage and seek another life. A bill of this kind is not against marriage, indeed it could even favor it, because it facilitates the reconstruction of possible future marriages. To await slow divorce sentences, there are already couples who have formed, who may have children and would also have the right to see that their problems, in a civil state such as Italy, are dealt with with with due sensitivity and with adequate time. The main objection that has so far interfered with the amendment of the 1970 law was that the abbreviation of divorce times makes the institution of marriage and family more fragile. In fact, there is statistical evidence that the long times of marriage dissolution fuel the conflict rather than the rediscovery of solidarity between spouses. With the short divorce measure, however, we want to affirm the principle of safeguarding the culture of the family, which must survive even where the couple can no longer be together, because the sharing of affections between husband and wife is over. I therefore believe that this measure must not only be seen and read in favour of the family that - I repeat - must resist even when the couple fails, but, by reducing the conflict between the spouses, it certainly goes to reduce the suffering of the children, when they are there. It is evident that children want their parents to be together, no child asks their parents to separate. It is also true, however, when love ends in a couple, who must resist the culture of the family, which is an environment in which children have the right to remain, and it must be ensured that parents continue to take their role in relation to their children. I believe that these are the principles and the rationale behind this measure. To come to the text of the provision, the Act of the Senate 1504, approved by the Chamber of Deputies on 29 May 2014, intervenes on the discipline of the dissolution of marriage, as provided for by Law No 898 of 1 December 1970. The prerequisite for the judgment by the divorce judge, the final dissolution of civil marriage, or the cessation of the civil effects of the concordatory marriage, is the determination of the failure of the material and spiritual communion of the spouses, for the existence of one of the lawsuits. The latter contains a clear indication of the causes in which the dissolution and cessation of the civil effects of marriage may be required. These include, for example, a specific list of crimes committed by the other spouse. In order to be able to file for divorce or termination of the civil effects of marriage, however, it is also necessary today - and even after the entry into force of Law No 162 of 2014 on the so-called easy divorce, by assisted negotiation or before the official of the civil state - the approval of separation or the negotiated agreement signed and transcribed or the double declaration before the official of the civil state, in cases of consensual procedure, or the judgment of separation passed into court, if the proceedings are judicial. The second condition, however, is that there has been an uninterrupted separation for at least three years, starting from the personal appearance of the spouses before the President of the court, in the process of legal separation, or from the signing of the negotiated agreement or from the declaration before the official of the civil state. Article 1 of the Senate Act 1504 amends point (b) of paragraph 2 of Article 3 of Article 3 of Law No 898 of 1 December 1970, reducing to 12 months the duration of the period of uninterrupted separation of the spouses, necessary to be able to propose the application for divorce in cases of judicial separation. Where separation is consensual, the last period of Article 1 shall reduce the uninterrupted separation period to six months. Instead, the Senate Justice Commission intervened on the text approved by the Chamber, deleting the second period of the same Article 1, which provided for the assignment of the application for the dissolution of the marriage to the judge of the personal separation, if the judgment of separation was still pending on the date of establishment of the said judgment. While considering that the purpose of that rule is worthy, namely the procedural economy of having the same judge who therefore knows the personal and economic questions of both spouses, however - since the rules on jurisdiction have not been amended - the provision in question appeared to be of dubious constitutionality in the light of judgment No 23 of 19 May 2008 and of the non coincidence of the forum of separation with that of divorce, for example in the case of the transfer of one of the spouses. In addition, the text approved by the Chamber provided for a period of time from which the period of necessary separation, the date of filing, should the appeal be lodged by both spouses, or the date of notification of the appeal, should it have been lodged by only one of the spouses. Also in this case the Senate Justice Commission intervened by restoring the original dies a quo, that is, the appearance of the spouses before the president of the court. There are too many concerns raised by the different deadline laid down in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, which raises questions of application and interpretation. In addition, Article 2 of the text approved by the Chamber, which referred to Article 189 of the implementing provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, was deleted. Article 2 of the measure amends Article 191 of the Civil Code on the dissolution of the communion of property between spouses. This provision provides, today, for personal separation as one of the reasons for the dissolution of communion, the actual moment of which occurs ex nunc, only with the passage in court of the judgment of separation. This forecast is not adapted to everyday reality, since the permanence of the patrimonial effects of legal communion is difficult to reconcile with the interruption of coexistence. It is recalled, in fact, that the cessation of cohabitation, even if authorized with provisional measures, does not prevent the goods subsequently acquired by the spouses from falling into legal communion, in accordance with the discipline specifically provided for by the Civil Code. Article 2 supplements the wording of paragraph 2 of Article 191, anticipating the dissolution of the communion of the goods at the time when the President of the court, at the hearing of the appearance, authorizes the spouses to live separately. The Commission has also intervened on the transitional rules provided for in Article 3 of the text, providing that the provisions of Articles 1 and 2 shall apply to proceedings in progress on the date of entry into force of this Act, even in cases where the process of legal separation is still pending. Finally, the Justice Commission introduced the most important amendment, adding to Article 1 of this text paragraph 2, i.e. the so-called direct divorce. In this way, it is possible for spouses to request, by joint appeal, the dissolution or termination of the civil effects of marriage even in the absence of legal separation, where there are no minor children or children of age who are unable or economically not self-sufficient. In this regard, I would remind you that only a few countries in Europe, such as Poland, Ireland and Malta, have a long-term framework for divorce. In particular, only Irish and Maltese legislation establishes the obligation of separation before access to divorce. This obligation is not provided for in countries such as France and the United Kingdom, where the average time required for the dissolution of marriage is about six months. The Spanish legislation also provides for a very short period of time for the dissolution of the marriage, which is an alternative to the separation of certain conditions. Finally, it is noted that in some countries of Northern Europe, such as Finland, Norway and the Netherlands, the dissolution of the marital bond is immediate. This contributes to the fact that, more and more frequently, couples of Italian citizens move their residence abroad for the sole purpose of obtaining a divorce in a short time. I can therefore only return to the preliminary consideration of my speech. I would ask the House to consider the text proposed by the Justice Commission in a secular way. The aim of this bill, namely the reduction of time, is intended solely to preserve the family and to prevent the conflict that arises with the marriage crisis from having devastating consequences on people's lives. Personal considerations or the life of each of us, including ethical beliefs, must not have place when we have to be legislators. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Palma.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u23	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet a representative of students from the Scientific High School "Malignani" in Udine, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u24	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to open with this first speech by the Group of the Party of European Socialists a debate which we have been waiting for a long time. The rapporteur, Mrs Filippin, has done well to reconstruct what happened in the Justice Commission and the process that we have all done together in that House. The text on which we are discussing today was fired on 29 May 2014 by the House and it is already too long what we are using to make it effective and effective today. We have said that it is the Act of the Senate 1504, which intervenes on the discipline of the dissolution of marriage. Mrs Filippin has done well to explain the text to us in detail, of which I would like to remind you of the main points relating to the term separation. The term of uninterrupted separation between spouses, as a prerequisite for the request for divorce, is reduced from three years to 12 months in cases of judicial separation, i.e. when there is no agreement between the spouses, and to only six months in case of consensual separation, i.e. when there is an agreement reached between the spouses. This period shall run from the date of appearance of the spouses before the President of the court. In the Justice Commission, with a transversal majority, we introduced a further point that had not been foreseen in the House. (18.10) (Following Cyrina). The point is what we called direct divorce. The spouses may request jointly (i.e. by agreement) exclusively from the competent judicial authority (i.e. the judge, no official of the civil or legal status), always in the absence of minor children or children of age who are unable or disabled or children under 26 years of age who are not economically self-sufficient, the dissolution of the marriage even in the absence of legal separation, i.e. without those six months of compulsory separation: one goes directly from the president of the court and asks for divorce. This certainly makes a dissolution more rapid in case of consent between the spouses and is still a possibility always precluded in cases of judicial separation or in the presence of children. Therefore, when it is said that with immediate divorce you give yet another blow to marriage and family, this is not true, because you cannot do it in the presence of children, you cannot do it if there is no consent and, above all, it is a free option that spouses can choose; otherwise they will remain on the consensual of six months or on the judicial with a year of separation. On this point, ladies and gentlemen, we need to reflect. The rapporteur, Mrs Filippin, has done well to tell us that a long time of separation in Europe (in which we want to stand tall, as a civilised country) is only planned in Ireland and Malta. Italy still expects this very long time of three years, if this law will not be passed. This obliges many citizens to make yet another trip abroad, yet another migration for rights. Look, we're still too far behind on ethical issues. To ask our citizens, who are European citizens, to go to Europe to obtain the rights that they do not have here is an ethically unsustainable situation. How many Italians go abroad to be able to have children? How many Italians go abroad to get what someone calls sweet death? How many Italians go abroad to contract marriage and, for example, to make prenuptial agreements or marriage contracts, which are not allowed here? Perhaps it is time to civilize this country, aligning ourselves with what happens in other European countries and not forcing our citizens to go begging rights outside our country. Another very important aspect is that the new discipline as soon as it enters into force - on this in the Justice Commission we have done a very long job, in order to achieve a deflation of the proceedings and the least possible increase compared to the civil and criminal processes, which we know to be very long - will also apply to the ongoing proceedings and not only to the claims for dissolution of marriage submitted after the entry into force of the measure. At this point, we need to make further thought, to understand what and what this deflagration effect will be and what and how many citizens will be able to benefit from the new rules. You will have seen on the web, including through our e-mail boxes, that hundreds and hundreds of citizens have urged us to bring this measure to the House and to approve it. Well, in Italy every four minutes a couple separates or divorces. In 86.4% of cases, this is consensual separation, while in the remaining 13.6 percent it is judicial separation. 69.3 percent of divorced couples submitted a joint application, thus preferring a non-controversial divorce, i.e. a divorce with an agreement. That is why this 69.3 percent makes us think that there is a real potential for deflagrating the civil provisions that have to do with the dissolution of marriage. Needless to say, the current procedure, which involves the three years of separation, dates back more than twenty years, to the divorce law. And it is useless to remember that now the social, cultural and anthropological landscape of our country in these twenty years has completely changed. The course of the three-year term, unfortunately, risks being not a time in which one tries to recover a relationship that is no longer there or a time in which to find, however, marriage agreements or anything else. Sociological studies tell us that this three-year term, on the other hand, is likely to prolong and aggravate the dissidi. The reduction of quarrels in court very often guarantees the well-being of children, as confirmed by the hearings held in the Chamber. The chronic slowness of our civil justice has also been detected as an anomaly by the OSCE, which has revealed through the last data an average duration for divorce cases in the Italian courts of six hundred and thirty-four days, which are added to the three mandatory years scheduled for separation. So, on average today you get divorced after three years of separation, adding on average another two years of waiting for court time and, therefore, you get to five years. Only France is close to these long times with four hundred and forty-seven days, while in Germany eleven months are sufficient. According to a EURISPES survey, the economic and social costs of divorces, separations and voluntary jurisdiction over the last ten years have weighed on the pockets of citizens and the state for almost 10 billion euros, without any advantage for the people directly involved and very often, as the auditors told us in the House, with a psychological increase of pain and suffering for the children of the couple. At this point, let us remember that European Regulation No 2201 of 2003 allows a couple in the Union to divorce in any Community country, as I said before, provided that they live, work or own a residence in their territory. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u26	I am only interrupting you because I would ask colleagues in this House, please, to lower their voices. It's hard to talk and listen.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u27	CIRINA (PD). Thank you very much, Mr President. In Europe, on average, the time needed to obtain divorce is much shorter than in Italy. The reason may be that there are not two separate processes for separation and divorce in Europe, but that the divorce procedure is being carried out directly. The data from the report on the efficiency of state justice in the European Commission's judicial systems demonstrate this. 45 out of 47 members of the Council of Europe are considered. In Italy, it takes six hundred thirty-four days to divorce, plus three years of separation. In France it takes four hundred and forty-seven; in Portugal three hundred and twenty-five, in Germany three hundred and twenty-one and in Catholic Spain the time to divorce varies between ninety and one hundred and eighty days. This figure emerges from a divorce survey in the 27 countries of the European Union, published by the Instituto de politica familiar (IFF) in Madrid for the period 1998-2008. The survey has shown that the increase in divorces in Spain over the observed decade has been steady to reach 205 percent. In fact, it has gone from 36,000 divorces in 1998 to 110,000 divorces in 2008. As IPF President Eduardo Hertfelder pointed out, the increase in divorces in Spain constitutes 69 percent of the total of those of the 15 countries that made up the European Union in 1998 and 58 percent of the current 27. President. - I shall conclude. I would like to make a point that, given the incipit of my speech, might seem paradoxical. In fact, with reference to the institution of marriage, in which I deeply believe - and I would like it to be for everyone, so much so that I would like marriage also for same sex couples - I would like to explain to you what might seem like a paradox to some and, that is, this text on the short divorce could strengthen the institution of marriage. I'll explain why. If we leave marriage in this country as the only option that gives certain rights to people who decide to live together, all we do is force all those who want the recognition of certain rights to get married. If we succeed in approving, instead, in this country, also the text on civil unions dedicated exclusively to people of the same sex, recognizing them all the rights deriving from marriage, and we will also be able to have a recognition of minimum and light rights for those who live together, then at this point marriage will no longer be the only institute generating rights. As a result, we will make it a stronger institution, because no longer a single compulsory choice for those who want rights, but an assessed choice, made without having to suffer, as it were, the "receipt" of non-recognition of law because other institutions do not exist. Thus, if we have the possibility of a range of options, we will get stronger marriages and certainly fewer divorces, because weddings are appointed as a one hundred percent choice and not as a forced road just to have rights. On the way back to the divorce, there has been a great deal of pain on this text and it has been well done by the House's colleagues to take all the time they need and also to hold many hearings of great legal value. What has been chosen is the right path, which puts us in step with Europe: twelve months for legal litigation, six months for consensual divorce. Then there is the question introduced in the Justice Commission to the Senate, that of direct divorce. Be careful, this option arose in the Senate Justice Committee on the basis of various amendments tabled by various Groups: there was an amendment in this sense by the Forza Italia Group and also an amendment by the Democratic Party Group that went in the same direction; these were then merged into a single amendment that was approved with a cross-cutting majority, as always when it comes to ethical issues. On freedom of conscience there must be freedom of vote and as Senator Sacconi said, which certainly does not belong to my party, without a bond of government, because on ethical issues there is freedom of conscience. At this point, I would like to make one final point, Madam President. We are representatives of the Parliament of a secular state, not of an ethical state. To give a very gross definition, we could say that in the ethical state it is the State that is concerned in some cases to take responsibility to provide happiness to the citizen, while in the secular State, as Senator Mucchetti often says, the State does not assume this burden, but lets the citizen conquer his happiness and if he succeeds, better for him. In this sense, I conclude by saying that the secular state we represent in this Parliament must, in my opinion, guarantee the citizen free choices and must respect it, considering it a responsible person, not a child to hold by the hand and to carry towards some lido. The state must respect the citizen in the freedom of his choices. We therefore also give our citizens the option of choosing how and when to get rid of a marriage that causes them, in many cases, only pain. I could conclude with one of Oscar Wilde's wonderful aphorisms, which said that if men and women learned from their mistakes, there would be no second marriages. But since I am married in a second marriage, I have committed my mistake of love and I hope that many, after divorce, will remarry. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u28	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u29	Madam President, we are at the beginning of the general debate on this draft law, but I am sure that many issues will be addressed during this long debate. Certainly, problems will also be raised concerning a period at the turn of the 1970s, when the divorce law was passed: we will certainly talk about the concepts of marriage, the family and the indissolubility of marriage. Surely and rightly in Italy there is a strong Catholic component. In fact, if we intervene on a legal text, on a regulation that governs marriage and its dissolution, we certainly go to touch on a concept that is strongly structured also from the religious point of view. We must rightly think that the family must be one of our main bodies, one of our fundamental social realities, because before we are part of society we are part of the family and that is where we grow. What we ask ourselves as a question is how it will come to engrave this bill. I have already pointed out that the intervention I make is personal, because on the determinations and votes concerning this bill, since it is a very delicate matter, will be left a freedom of conscience to all members of the Group of the North League. Certainly the themes are very delicate because often, when it comes to family, we talk not only about spouses, but also about children. The draft law, as currently structured and as launched by the Justice Commission here in the Senate, has brought some decisive improvements to the text of the Chamber of Deputies: a text which, in my view, was perhaps affected by some technical irregularities. Let us now talk about the reduction in the terms between separation and divorce. They must not pass strange messages, such as those that had passed with regard to the dissolution of marriage and separation with assisted negotiation, or with the communication to the officer of the civil state who, erroneously and vulgarly, was considered an immediate divorce. We are talking about the shortening of the time between the separation sentence, or the homologation of consensual separation, and the declaration of dissolution of the civil effects of marriage and divorce. In this respect, we cannot say that the institution of marriage is affected. Of course there are some considerations that are being made. In the face of the family crisis, the law intervenes, but the law, in one verse, does not solve the marital crisis. One wonders whether it may contain it because of the timing between the pronunciation of the separation, or the homologation, and the divorce. Is this timing going to affect or can it contain the marital crisis? On this point I have strong doubts, perhaps also due to the fact that my profession as a lawyer often leads me to verify that the problems raised in the separation process are again flourishing, three years later, in the divorce proceedings. For this reason, I sometimes wonder - I think the question is legitimate - whether it is good for the family and for the children that there are two procedures at a distance, which, among other things, also affect the individual spouses economically. I wonder if this could also affect the possibility of reconciliation. Maybe not. The possibility of reconciliation may also be difficult and perhaps it is difficult for some to review their decisions and return to their own steps in these three years. I wish this could happen. Perhaps, since the separation sentence, there may be the possibility of revising one's positions in the next three years. However, cases are also absolutely reduced as a number. Certainly the problems raised in the separation center - issues concerning the custody of minors, the assignment of the conjugal house and the contribution to the maintenance - then, in the end, after three years, they are retraced again. Taking into account the times of Italian justice, we don't even talk about three years, because surely the time is rather dilated. So we wonder if we can actually create great ethical and moral problems about this arrangement. In our view, some issues might perhaps concern Article 1 (2) of the text proposed by the Commission, where, with reference to the so-called immediate divorce, it is provided that, in the absence of minors, divorce can be made immediately, without going through the phase of separation. Honestly, we have raised this issue and we have discussed it extensively in our Group. A problem could arise with so-called marriages of convenience. We wonder if the ease of the dissolution of marriage cannot lead to marriages for other purposes, that are not necessarily inspired by a sentimental and affective issue, but that can be preordained for other purposes (think of cases of acquiring citizenship). We therefore have strong doubts about the paragraph added by the Commission to Article 1. As far as the first is concerned, we believe, and I believe, that this can also be a solution in order to prevent the emergence of family crisis episodes. Many amendments have been tabled to this draft law, and we hope that they will be aimed at improving the text, although, as I said before, the action taken in the Justice Commission is definitely improving. There will be a big question, concerning a subject that we should all look into: whether the presence of minor children can be criminal or not with regard to the decision on the timing of proposing the divorce application. From this point of view, however, I am sure that we will all be able to look at this issue in greater depth. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u31	Madam President, we are very sorry to note here too a lack of knowledge of what is happening in the courts. Looks like he's legit like we're on another planet. This measure also falls from the clouds without taking into account current judicial practices, and without taking into account any legal measures that we passed a few months ago in this House with the same members of this Senate. I must point out that between what we have approved and what we are about to approve there is such a dystonia that I cannot understand how it can be resolved in the courtrooms. The central point, which perhaps has not been well understood, is the nature of the institution of marriage. Or the institution of marriage has a public nature: and it has a public nature, because we also find it within the framework of our Constitutional Charter; or the institution of marriage is comparable to any private contract between the parties. That's where you don't understand. With the law that we have fired in this Chamber on assisted negotiation, we have foreseen that the dissolution of the marriage can be achieved through private negotiation between the lawyers of the parties. I remember that on this point I was very careful to urge the rapporteur of the Democratic Party to consider that if marriage is an institution with public function, as it is, the cause of dissolution of marriage had to be removed from the activities of assisted negotiation. I tried hard not to try to make the same - and I succeeded, for the truth - with regard to the process of work, that even in the original drafting it was included among the causes that could be defined by assisted negotiation, recalling that certain rights of workers are indispensable and, as such, cannot be resolved in the conventional framework. For the dissolution of the marriage, I couldn't. Yet, I recall that I was quite clear in pointing out that the role of the judge could not be delegated to the activity of two lawyers for an institution of essentially public nature. This is the first relief that I leave to the acts of this Senate and I go further, to say, with an intervention of an exquisitely political nature, that this measure is a legislative intervention that, in some way, mocks the Italians. In fact, it is expected that for the dissolution of the marriage, in the absence of minor children or disabled or otherwise not self-sufficient of age, you can access the divorce application by appealing - now, in case - to the judge. I wonder, then, why, for a possible dispute, at some point, it is possible to resort to assisted negotiation and here it is said that the application must be submitted jointly by appeal to the judge. Then, we present the request for judicial separation to the judge, considering that it has been provided also for cases that begin with litigation and then, resigning joint conclusions, they become consensual, and we await the first appearance hearing. That is the date from which we have to make the deadline in case there are minor children or not. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that in the Italian courts - and I am talking about the Neapolitan court, but also the Roman court (my professional activity in this matter goes beyond the Neapolitan court of appeal) - for the request for separation of spouses the date of appearance before the president of the court, in the generality of cases, except small provincial courts, is fixed at a time between eight and twelve months? I would remind you that the rapporteur, Mrs Filippin, told me that in her courtroom the appearances were set much shorter and I was pleased with that court president for such speed. But if you go to the court of Rome, Milan or Naples, the date of appearance is one year later. So what's it for? It's a joke. And it is even more so for Italians if we consider that the assumption of the current norm (Law No. 898 of 1970) relating to the duration has been modified as we do today, while the other assumption, that which requires the passage into judgment, is not realized. Therefore, a year has passed since the appearance; you may, on the basis of Article 1 of this law, ask for the cessation of the civil effects of marriage; but the other assumption of the passage in court of the judgment, which will be yes but after four or five years (this is the duration of a separation procedure). Then we said: short divorce yes, but for what? If there are two presuppositions, rapporteur Filippin, and we reduce the times of the first and leave unchanged the second assumption, that of the passage into judgment, it is clear that the times to be able to ask for divorce will always be the same. I had presented a bill, which was discussed with others, in which at least I tried not to do an image operation to satisfy those who want a short divorce. Attention, I have done an excellently technical intervention so far, and I must point out that from a practical point of view, when there are no children or, if there are, they are of age and self-employed, as far as short divorce is concerned, they can find entry into cases such as these without any problem. So it's not that I don't share the need to speed up the time for the dissolution of marriage. My point is of an exquisitely technical nature: I say that if we want to do it, let's do it, but let's do it well and not in a graffiti way. If we with the assisted negotiation provided the possibility to ask to define the dispute of separation between spouses in private, even in this law we could do the same thing. What I note and observe is that basically the regulatory technique is wrong, because it does not create a harmony between the various legal provisions. Attention, I can understand that this harmony is not created between Law No. 498 of 1970 and the provision that we are going to approve; we can also refer to the legal elaboration of that norm, but I think that it will not create harmony between a provision that we fired in October 2014 and what we examine today (the first in the matter of assisted negotiation and the second in the matter of the dissolution of the marriage bond), it will bring us not a few criticisms from the doctrine and the jurisprudence, although from the exquisitely public point of view of media activity we will hear us say that we were good because we have eliminated this long time of separation. I also understand, with regard to the assumption that the judgment is passed, that all judges are now oriented to partial judgments, so they leave long time for the definition of the patrimonial relations between the spouses, and with partial judgment they declare the cessation of civil effects. However, while taking into account this fact, the times certainly go beyond the year. We know, in fact, that, although there is the possibility of a partial divorce judgment, the terms of civil trial (Articles 183 and 189 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the time for the deposit of final memories) are always those: these are terms that cannot be frustrated and exceeded. Therefore, a divorce sentence, even partial, today in our courts we could only obtain it about three years after the request for separation. I wonder, then, if we have achieved the goal. The objective of my colleagues and I believe is the same: to speed things up. The problem is that with this law provision we have not reduced the times at all; we have left them unchanged. We have, however, created a new screen, a new flag to be put in charge of this Government, which has also addressed this issue, much heard by Italian families, but has dealt with it, as far as I am concerned, once again, badly. In the end, however, given that in any case there is the possibility that, instead of the three years, two years and six months will pass, or two years and seven months in order to be able to have a divorce, I will vote in favour of this measure, simply because I hope that, in the practice of the courts, these times - which today, moreover, are now consolidated over three years - will be reduced as a result of this rule. Why, then, not save this month for those in need of a divorce application? It is only for this reason - for that month, perhaps two, perhaps three - that I shall vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the rapporteur, Mrs Filippin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u32	Senator Fattorini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u33	Madam President, thank you very much to the rapporteur, Mrs Filippin, who, in her marathon, has made an opportune and, for me, very welcome praise of the short divorce. A convincing praise, because the length of our times was truly uncivilized and, instead of representing a period of opportune rethinking, it got the absolutely opposite effect. The timing seems appropriate: twelve years in case of litigation, six in case of agreement. A punitive and repressive dimension, in fact, is the farthest we should hope for on these issues. With regard to these issues, I particularly context the theory of inclined plane, which I think is very harmful. To speed up the divorce, in fact, does not mean at all to mark an increase. This speed will not be negative, it will not increase divorces. Moreover, the theory of the inclined plan was inaugurated already when the law on divorce and referendum was in place and again in the case of the law on abortion. It was said that the decriminalization of abortion would increase the cases of abortion and recurrence, while exactly the opposite happened: we saw the number halved. And so for the divorce law; it was said that it would lead to the end of the family and to the greater oppression of the woman (in those years the process of interweaving between emancipation and feminism was still at the beginning) and it was exactly the opposite: the woman strengthened and became more adult, and so the choice of marriage. So let's avoid this reasoning very, very wrong and, I would say, almost immoral when it is applied to such ethically sensitive themes, as I think it is said, improperly. Why do I say "improperly" when I talk about ethically sensitive issues? Because we, who are doing the general evidence of the debate on civil rights and the mother of all measures on this issue, which will be civil unions, must start on the right foot. Firstly, we must not have retro-thoughts, but take us all seriously, not resort to the theory of inclined plane, not attribute other purposes than those that each states. Secondly, as a consequence of very close ties between them, we must not retrace the furious clashes between laity and Catholics, and not in principle - because it is right or wrong or because compromise is needed and we must all get along - but because on these delicate issues (which I would not consider proper to ethics, as they are very secular and common sense soils), we can really find a comparison that does not use its own principles, those of belonging, as clave. In fact, common sense and the majority of reasons lead to results that can see a common solution, I am deeply convinced of that. Some of these basic principles have also been mentioned in the debate these days about adoptions and entrusts, such as the theme of responsibility: the State is said not to be the guardian of ethics - and we all have to agree on this, we would miss it - indeed, it must not promote it, otherwise it becomes it. I have heard so many speeches about the fact that the State must give responsibility, but that is not the case, precisely because it is not ethical: it must help and favour it, but it is certainly not from there that it comes. For all these reasons I was saying, therefore, these are common ground. Precisely with these premises, which are not just methodical, the second reasoning I would like to make instead leads me to be literally enthusiastic about the short divorce, but quite perplexed about the idea of the quick divorce, which abolishes the separation. Also here, they are not for ethical and religious reasons, but very secular and deriving from rational reasoning, as well as from the idea of affective relationships and maturity of affective relationships today. As I said two years ago, when we began the legislature, about feminicide - which is why I am glad that President Faithful is at this time, who has fought so hard on these issues - I believe that this is the real framework. We do not take measures on feminicide, adoption, unions or divorce as a separate piece, but we must have an overview of why these things are. In fact, these are not abstract principles, but evaluations, in part of the ethical principle, I repeat, but much less and much more rational, opportunities, interpretation, reading and analysis of the situation in our country and of what are the state of affective relations and the condition of women and loving relationships. For all these reasons, on which I do not dwell, and starting from this premise, I believe that the period of separation is necessary and useful. At least, I put it as a hypothesis that convinces me a lot, even in this case, not so much because it can be a pause for reflection that can lead to a rethinking - I also believe, as the rapporteur rightly said, that there is not mature the choice, which instead is matured before or after, because it is not a fact of time - but precisely because the institution of separation is very Italian and has a very specific root in our country, which is not only a sign of backwardness. I start from a fact that emerges very clearly, for example, from the studies and researches of our colleague Dalla Zuanna, revealing that more than half of those who separate then do not arrive to divorce and do not want it even when it can have it. This is a fact on which we must reflect: it is not an opinion, a principle, a hypothesis or a request that everyone makes, but a fact of reality. How do we interpret it? Why is this happening? The reasons are many and I repeat that they are not moral or even less religious, but they all stick to the nature and history of our family and our affective relationships, which sink in time, but are very current today. The Italian family, in fact, is a tendentially enlarged, community family, which proceeds by addition, not by subtractions or by self-excusing segments, but is inclusive. It is so for the conception of women and motherhood: in an extended family, women, even after separations and divorces, tend to deal not only with their children, as is obvious, but also with those of the other and try not to have conflicts with the other, as well as having a good relationship with the children of the other or the other, which is very rare in other countries. Is this just backwardness? I don't know, I put the theme. Children, however, tend never to break with their own family-community and this family-community tends to never break with the family of origin, as happens in other countries. In short, there is a context that encompasses, includes and cares for and does not follow that very Anglo-Saxon segmentation, which implies the co-active and repeated repetition of marriages and divorces, successive marriages and subsequent divorces, on a model that we could trivially define as "Las Vegas." In Italy there is no such attitude and I do not know if all this can be defined banally and simply as backwardness, whose overcoming must be accelerated by the State, in the name of modernity, contradicting again the idea that the State should not be ethical. Instead, I believe that we need respect for these choices and for this specificity, which must not be indulged in its hypocritical and regressive aspects, but must make us think. In conclusion, Madam President, we are a country marked by the great difficulty of separation. Everything I have said alludes to the almost impossibility of a true separation and therefore of a divorce. Moreover, the increase of feminicides in recent years (as opposed to what happened before, in the first years since the introduction of divorce), testifies to the deep fatigue of the Italian male - and not only of the male, because it is proper of an era - to assume a responsibility. That is, it is difficult to hold a separation, which is not by chance much more desired and agitated by women, than by men, unlike what we feminists at the time thought, but that we did not support anyway. This is a subject of great discussion in the reflection on women's emancipation. We made a fair bet, like I said at the beginning: divorce increased female maturity and it was a flywheel. Now we are to the point that it is women who ask to a greater extent and men do not hold it. There is a great deal of effort on the part of the Italian male and the family situation in general, compared to the separation. Well, just as this aspect has negative characteristics, in my opinion it also reflects positive characteristics, such as the attitude to warm and affective relationality, to see inclusion as responsibility and not to see separation only as a way to delete, remove and move to another chapter: a very American attitude, to understand us, without wanting to trivialize. This is also a responsibility to the weakest, such as children and elders, testified by the fact that it does not break with the family of origin. I think, therefore, that we must preserve this kind of warm culture of relationships and not only for heterosexuals, but also for homosexuals. When we are rightly discussing civil unions, let us remember this aspect: it is much more important to agree, strengthen and promote this type of responsible, stable, unitive and affective relationality than the sex of belonging. It is important that this aspect is present and not that the relationship is lived or applied between heterosexuals or homosexuals. This is important and I am pleased with what my colleague, Senator Cirinna, said in the final part of her speech, which is what we have always supported, namely that it is good to have a law on civil unions, relating only to homosexuals, not in a punitive or limiting function, but to distinguish exactly, precisely according to the promotion of marriage. In these unions, however, we must promote and promote precisely this aspect of responsibility and affectivity. With this I conclude, without any controversy: if the House thinks that rapid divorce is a progressive and modern solution, I will be at what we will all decide together, but I am deeply convinced that there is an extremely impoverishing view of our history and our tradition, in its best sense and not of backwardness. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u34	We greet the students and students of the Institute of Higher Education of St. John in Persiceto, in the province of Bologna. Welcome and welcome to the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u35	Madam President, I have listened very carefully to my previous colleagues and I do not deny that, as far as I am concerned, many of the arguments that have been put forward cannot be accepted at all. I thought I would develop an intervention that would enter exclusively into the substance of the measure, therefore a very focused reasoning, but I must necessarily mention my colleague Filippin because, in introducing his arguments, he used absolutely precise terms, saying that in the measure under consideration we are not talking about marriage and family, but only about solutions and remedies. You see, Mr Filippin, the solution and the remedy come in any case after something traumatic that has happened or is about to happen; the solution and the remedy are the attempt to solve a problem and a pathology, but if we have to evaluate the pathology, we have to start from the physiology, from the normality of things and inevitably return to the arguments that you elegantly tried to introduce but at the same time to evade: marriage and the family. I am obliged to quote from Article 29 of our Constitution, which begins by reciting in this way: The Republic recognises the rights of the family as a natural society founded on marriage. This term is used, Madam President, because the family is in fact the first cell of society and therefore of a community, in which the personality of individuals has been formed since childhood. The family, therefore, is the founding nucleus of society and even precedes the formation of the State, so much so that the Republic - and this is stated in the constitutional dictation - does not attribute rights to the family, but merely recognizes them and therefore guarantees them, because they are pre-existing rights to the State, as is the case with other inviolable rights of man. Therefore, if we do not start from this assumption, our reasoning will necessarily be stumped. That is the fundamental reason - and I do not want to continue with Articles 29, 30 and 31 of the Constitution - for which we must absolutely speak on this subject without misunderstandings and without picking up some issues. I am pleased that Mr Fattorini, who preceded me, had to mention two important figures, albeit with a certain amount of pain and difficulty. Basically he said that not all crises become or are transformed into separations and divorces; even statistics attest that about 64 percent of marriage crises are resolved in a positive way, therefore with a reunion and a recomposition of the family framework. She has also given another figure, namely that not all separations are transformed into divorces. ISTAT provides a figure from 2012 in which attests that as much as 40 percent (as in some cases even 46 percent) of separations do not turn into divorces but into something else; some even speak of liquid marriage. I must also say that very often, even in common speech, when you meet friends or acquaintances who live moments of difficulty, a phrase of this kind comes out: I am separated, however I have a civil relationship, I continue with my ex-wife, with my children. It seems that in fact, not proceeding further towards divorce, one does not want to cut off a bond that, consciously or unconsciously, feels to be "indissoluble" - but I do not want to use an authentic term, so I use another word, that is, "important". Instead, the measure under consideration, on the so-called short divorce, which then becomes immediate divorce or flash divorce in certain respects, tends to empty the solemn definition of the article of the Constitution. I believe that if this law is passed as it is for our attention today, it will create devastating effects. I do not want to mention here paradoxical examples, as well as the possibility that, with the immediate divorce or with the lightning divorce, within a few years a person can contract five, six or ten marriages, on the Las Vegas model, as my colleague Fattorini rightly said; this interests us little. However, in fact, we are faced with a real delegitimation of the institution of marriage, which would on the one hand solemnly extend to relationships of a matrimonial type, but of another nature, and which on the other hand wants to reduce to an absolutely private event, which can easily be terminated, as a contract that has to do with things or economic relations. So it's not a marriage anymore, it's something else, it's a real contract, it's an economic contract; we can or will have to imagine that marriage can close with an equal or even greater ease than the portability of a bank account or the possibility that citizens are given to change the telephone operator, the electricity provider or even to cancel the RAI fee. On this point we must absolutely reason. The 1970 legislator introduced the divorce institute, preceded by a separation of five years. Subsequently, this five-year separation period increased to 36 months. Today the bill in our examination identifies two cases: a case involving divorce after 12 months, in case of legal separation, and another one involving divorce after six months, in case of consensual separation (i.e. short divorce). You see, Madam President, what was the point of the separation period according to the legislator of the 1970s and subsequent amendments, which led to the separation period from five to three years? It served to rethink and was a sometimes industrious rethinking, which took place thanks to the help of lawyers, family members, who very often tried or tried to recompose such issues, or friends. It also occurred on the solemnity of the courtrooms, because it was no coincidence that the legislator at the time foresaw that all these phases occurred before the president of the court, in order to give a particular solemnity to all these acts, precisely because one had the awareness that the institution that was to be vulnered by separation and then by divorce was a fundamental institution, which in itself covered an interest not only subjective, but objective, being a good understood as such for the whole of society. Going to further contract the period of separation, it is evident that we are going to contract even the period of rethinking. Even, in case of consent between the parties and in case of the absence of minor children or disabled people, we have the insertion of this immediate divorce, of this flash divorce, which we almost could also define as the definitive solution to a marriage for trial or an enhanced engagement. So you make the marriage for trial and immediately there is a quick divorce or you make the engagement strengthened and we have the divorce lightning. Then you see, Madam President, all this must make us think and must lead us to great caution and great reflection. We can never start with special cases in order to arrive at rules of general principle. There are general rules and principles that are and remain so, regardless of the multiplicity of particular cases. It is therefore quite clear that, as the New Right Centre, we are certainly going to have a battle in this House, to say and demonstrate our opposition to this idea of flash divorce and immediate divorce. But I must also tell you that on the subject of short divorce within us there is a time of difficulty and confrontation because on these issues obviously there are no party or majority bonds and only one responds to one's conscience. Mr President, we, including myself, are aware that disastrous effects will occur. The first effect, which may come out of such a rule, if approved, is to provoke a sort of de-accountability of those who will one day be able to benefit from such rules and this can have devastating effects. We live in times of great difficulty and conflict. I believe that the main duty of a legislator is to reflect and ponder well when, with seemingly secondary measures such as this, it is going to affect institutions and assumptions that have governed for decades, for centuries and perhaps for millennia a civilization, our civilization, the Italian, European and Western civilization, which has led to thousands of years of history and culture. Mr President, we all know, at a time of great economic difficulty, how divorce and separation contribute enormously to the creation of the so-called new poverty that is not only economic, but also social, moral, health and also related to the difficulties of having to leave home and find another. All these issues had to be allocated in a reasoning such as this because the duty of a legislator and the State is not only to deal with the short divorce. There is no responsibility for the weakest, there is no responsibility for the main duty of society, there is no responsibility for the families and not only for economic measures, but for a reconstruction of the moral and social fabric that is fundamental, if our society tomorrow wants to have a hope and wants to have a future. The legislator must be concerned with intercepting families in crisis, with going to talk to husband and wife when they are in crisis, with caring for the relationship with children and children, to assist them step by step, to provide that necessary network of protection. We do not see this and, unfortunately, even in the debate in the Commission and in this House, we have neither seen nor listened to these things. Mr President, that is why we express our perplexity and regret. We will support the amendments tabled by my colleagues from the New Right Centre who tend to improve the text. Obviously we will reserve an overall assessment at the time of the final vote. [[Applause from Senator Piccoli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lo Giudice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u37	Madam President, listening to some of the speeches this evening, which were somewhat catastrophic in comparison to what might happen, I was reminded of the words of Amintore Fanfani of April 1974, when, intervening in a meeting in Caltanissetta in favour of the repealing referendum for divorce, he said that if divorce had been chosen, then abortion and marriage between homosexuals would come and, perhaps, wives would leave their husbands to run away with the servants. It is very interesting to note in the meantime how Fanfani addressed the men and not the generality of the public to alarm the population and then that, apart from this scene of the wives who run away with the servants (which I hope are overcome by an overcoming of the relationship between master and servant in the domestic field), not all the forecasts of Fanfani have been realized. We hope therefore that Fanfani had the long view and that even the prediction of marriage between homosexuals can happen sooner or later, more than forty years after that prophecy, in our country. Today, however, we are in the presence of a passage, in the history of the family law of our country, in my opinion very important and interesting. The family in Italy has changed a lot, since the constitution of the Republic until today, and fortunately over time also the legislation on the family has changed a lot. When we talk today about the traditional family I have a little 'to smile, because in reality what today is defined as such, looking at the contemporary scenario, has almost nothing more of the traditional family; because the traditional family understood on the normative level in our country was a family founded in the meantime on the country power and not, as we say now, on parental authority: that is, it was founded on the idea that the father had power over the mother, that the husband had power over the wife. It was the husband who could and had to fix the residence of the family and the wife had to be subject to the husband. I see that even at this stage there is a certain revival of the idea of the wife's submission to her husband: "Married and be submissive," says the author. Of course, I have nothing against the fact that a woman is subject to a man, just as I have nothing against the fact that a man wants to be subject to a woman or another man: the important thing is that this happens between consenting adults and not because of an impediment or an obligation to the law. Today the law finally, fortunately, establishes the full equality of spouses within the family. Once the woman could be punished as an adulteress in a different way than what happened to the man, who instead saw justified acts of violence and feminicide through the law on the crime of honor. The marriage was considered indissoluble until 1970, until the adoption of that law n. 898 that today we are also going to amend. The family was founded on the real discrimination between the so-called legitimate children and the so-called natural children, that is, between the children who were born within the marriage and recognized by a married couple of parents and the children who instead were born from unmarried parents and who were therefore discriminated from the normative point of view: they could not, for example, see recognized the bond with the uncles and grandparents. That family, with a little delay, as usual, of the legislation with respect to social change, has changed in the concrete life of our country and has changed also in our legal system. It is the reason why today the idea of reducing divorce times is no longer accompanied by the apocalyptic tones used by Fanfani in 1974, but by the overall sharing of the merit that is recorded in this House today, with obvious nuances, which have emerged also from the interventions this afternoon on some particular aspects, but with a broad sharing on the fact that it is a strong demand of Italian society and it is an obligation, at this point, of the legislator to make marriage more suitable to the needs of those who conclude it and therefore more easily dissolveable, as many Italians and many Italians require us, especially those who have found themselves in a very strong difficulty to divorce in our country. This iter, in fact, very often does not limit itself even to the three years foreseen today by the law, but to those three years it also sees added those months and those years more due to the slowness of the bureaucratic machine and the machine of justice in our country. But I think it's important to introduce a short divorce, because I think it's good for marriage. I am part of that minority of Italians who press for a strengthening of the institution of marriage and would like to see extended the possibility of accessing marriage to gay and lesbian couples, I think that today one of the reasons why marriage is unappetizing for Italians and Italians is precisely the difficulty of dissolving it. We are in the presence of a very strong drop in the number of marriages. It is no coincidence - indeed, it seems to me very indicative - that, in the history of the Italian Republic, the peak of marriages was recorded in 1971, that is, immediately after the introduction of the law on divorce, when a peak of 404,464 marriages was recorded. Since then there has been a gradual decline. In 2001 marriages had become 264,000; in 2013 they had fallen to 194,000 and, therefore, less than half compared to 1971. Why has marriage become so unappetizing? There are different kinds of reasons. There is also a greater elasticity of the life path of people: there is the idea that not necessarily the life of each of us is marked by preconstituted tracks for which marriage must be the only destiny, the only destiny. There is the data - I mentioned it before - of lesbian women and gay men who, until a few decades ago, were getting married. They married people of the opposite sex because this seemed to be their destiny and then, instead, they became aware and no longer want to be forced to marry people of the opposite sex. There is certainly also the idea that embarking on a marriage that may not be forever could lead to the beginning of an odyssey of separation and divorce: this represents a deterrent. We have thus come to the fact that today, in Italy, a quarter of the children (in my Region - Emilia-Romagna - we are abundantly above a third) are born outside marriage, in a context in which the demographic decline in our country has been reduced today, in certain contexts even reversed, by a presence of sonship by immigrants who, instead, are usually married. It is, therefore, a very important fact, that does not stop even in front of the presence of the children: in our country there are more and more couples who make couples, have children and decide not to marry or to postpone perhaps to a moment of \"maggiore decision" marriage. I believe that making the institution of marriage more flexible on the way out can make this institution more attractive. On the other hand, the time allowed by Italian legislation is now completely abnormal compared to those provided for in other countries: from Spain, France, Sweden, Belgium, Finland, Germany, Scotland; almost all European countries (in that "almost" there are Gibraltar, Cyprus and a few other small European states) have reduced time compared to those provided for in our divorce order, if not, non-existent times as far as separation is concerned. In Europe separation is often considered to be a non-pro-divorce institution, but alternative to it, in the sense that you can choose to divorce, even immediately, or to access a separation path, perhaps pending a decision that can be made later. Here too, however, it is a matter of respecting the free choice of the citizen. None of us would like marriages to end soon or divorces to be consumed quickly. I believe that each of us, in the face of the birth and the presence of a relationship as a couple, can only wish that couple to last as long as possible in time and never to arrive at the moment of separation or divorce, just as I believe that each of us wishes that, at the moment when a couple goes into crisis, there may be a moment of rethinking and a phase of reconciliation. The point is to prevent the same state from deciding on the timing and how this should be done. For this reason, I have supported and am very much in favour of that amendment, which is included in the Justice Commission, which adds to the amendments, which are already very important, contained in the text amending the divorce law approved by the House of Deputies. I recall once again that the separation periods are extended from the three years provided for by the current law to twelve months in case of judicial separation, to six months in case of consensual separation; it also leads to the total abolition of separation times in the absence of minor children or otherwise not self-sufficient. I do not believe that direct divorce should be the main road, but that it should be a possibility for those who, finding themselves in the situation of being a couple without children or a couple who have agreed to separate, have already developed an idea for their lives and should not be forced by the State to a further period of waiting. Almost as if, as was said in some previous intervention, the State had to assume the ethical role of convincing, pushing and producing a change in behavior, when it comes to choices so personal and so important. I would like this Parliament to be able, as it was in 1975, to tackle in an organic way the subject of a reform of family law. In fact, those changes that forty years ago were made organically and cross-cuttingly by political forces, today need an organic and new look to review the structure. However, I am pleased that this Parliament is dealing with a number of issues. In the last few hours we have approved two important measures, such as the ratification of the Hague Convention, which means that we recognize the presence of the Kafala Institute also in our country; or like the bill on adoptions in case of foster care, which ensures that a child entrusted beyond the expected time of the twenty-four months to a family can, in certain situations, at the discretion of a judge, in case of adoption, be adopted by that family. The law on civil unions between people of the same sex and the law on de facto cohabitations, heterosexuals and homosexuals, which the Commission is preparing for and which could be ready for the House in a few weeks' time, remain to be implemented. In short, we are in the presence of Parliament's action to bring legislation on family relations closer to the rest of Europe. I hope that the final outcome of the debate will produce the most shared text of all of us. I also hope that it will be the most appropriate text to respond to that plurality of needs of the various people, families and couples who have that instance and that need of difference, plurality and diversity of situations; instances to which Italian laws should be able to respond with the necessary flexibility of the options and opportunities that any law dealing with such issues should be able to have. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u38	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are examining deals with a sensitive issue, as is clear to all, as can be the situation of difficulties and suffering which occurs at the time of crisis and, subsequently, the dissolution of a family unit. Clearly it is an issue on which they overlap and - I would say - very different positions clash, and it lends itself to sometimes ideological perches that, personally, do not belong to me. I do, however, have a doubt, indeed many doubts. I do not think that there are any arguments, so to speak, taboos, that our Parliament does not have to deal with. But I also know very well that very often this House has adopted measures on the wave of a strongly ideological orientation, which does not adequately leave room for common sense reflections. This does not necessarily have to be the case, but we know that this can also be the case. On a subject such as the dissolution of marriage we must deepen the problems, aware of their delicacy, and aware of the value that, rightly, our organization assigns to marriage not as a private act, but as an act of public importance, whose value for the individual and for society is and remains fundamental. This fundamental importance of the matrimonial institution, which clearly presupposes a commitment and responsibility of the individual and which also has a social relapse recognised by the Constitution, cannot be considered secondary, especially when it comes to legislation on the possible dissolution of what the Constitution considers a fundamental cell of society. It is true that we must confront the citizens' demands, but it is also true that we must make them aware of the fact that we cannot return to our citizens a distorted bond in its importance and value, making it a contract between private citizens, when in fact it was much more than the recognition it had received. I say this without a judgment on situations, which I recognize can be diversified and, however, painful. It is clear that we must have people in front of us. Humanity, even in its possible fragility, which clearly meets, in the dynamics of life as a couple, moments of difficulty and labour in which, perhaps, the sense of commitment taken fails. That's clear, I recognize it. I believe that addressing this issue today also has the merit of leading us to reflect on the role of the State in supporting critical situations that the couple can go through. Paradoxically, yesterday and today this House has found itself and is facing measures that, in their diversity, have a common denominator: the family in difficulty. These are issues that belong to no one, and I address them to my colleagues who spoke before me. Faced with this, we have measures that find the solution of problems, even serious ones, through an exit from the family context. There are no interventions aimed at recovering that family context, even where possible. This must make us reflect on the importance we give to the family institution. It must make us think about the values that we are leaving to tomorrow's society, to our children, as important, important values and to be protected. We are talking about ending the effects of marriage, shortening the times of consensual or judicial separation. A practical perspective, very well; but why not work also to give content and meaning to that period of separation by involving experts in family mediation and working to recompose the criticalities, where possible? Are we sure that the reasons for a marriage crisis cannot be recovered? Yet, I assume that all those present here have a conjugal life experience behind them, know that marriage is an experience that, I would say, travels with spouses, with their joys and sorrows, going through even dark moments, which however can pass and flourish. Hardly, a tenth, a third or three-fifths of the road can have a complete perspective of what it is, it has been and will be; why then, while facilitating - as you want to do with this text - the circumstances in which the situation is no longer bearable, do you not even think of activating support tools for the still recoverable situations? I believe that more than ever an alliance between the State and the family is needed on this issue, with respect for and recognition of the specificity, but also of the reciprocity that characterizes them and in the Commission I have tabled amendments in this direction. The work of the Commission, which has redefined the text received from the Chamber of Deputies, reflects, in some passages, the awareness of the real nature of the family institution. For example, even if the time allowed for separation is shortened, it has been rightly considered to correct what was introduced to the House at the time from which the calculation of the months should begin. The House was expected to start from the notification of the request for separation, while the Commission to the Senate has restored this effect from the appearance of the spouses before the president of the court, then after that public confrontation which provides, even - unfortunately - nominally, the proposal for conciliation by the judge. However, there are still very critical elements in this text, on which I would like to call for further reflection, first of all as regards the need - I repeat, colleagues - for a distinction to be made in the presence of minor children. Because if we know how painful the fracture is for us adults, we also know how painful it is for children to see their parents divide. It is an event that tears a child internally, that sees consecrated a situation in which union is transformed into division, love into hatred. It is customary to say with certainty on this issue, a certainty that does not belong to me: Better, for children, two separate but serene parents than two quarrelsome parents. I want to re-launch, colleagues: are we really sure that this is better for children? I do not claim to be certain, but I want to adopt a conservative attitude. I think we owe our children that extra effort to try to recomposition. That is why I call for a reflection on the amendments tabled by our Group, which are precisely in the direction of a diversification of situations. This is a non-partisan issue, which I know is for the attention of many of my colleagues in the Democratic Party as well. Some senators have expressed doubts, also in the Commission, about this prospect, wondering whether the presence or not of children can justify a diversity of discipline. My answer to these concerns is categorically yes. It's not a matter of "A" weddings and "B" weddings. No, it is a matter of protecting the weakest; and minors, in a family, are the weakest. I do not speak, of course, of those situations that can be brought as examples, in which there may be episodes of violence and so on; situations that include legislative interventions of other nature. I speak of situations in which the will to divorce derives from others, more ordinary, motivations. Can we ask for extra effort from parents? Yes, we can do that and call them back to their parental responsibility. Clearly this must not be exploited, because the problem is not to say that one marriage deserves and another does not; this we see clearly from the second point that I consider particularly critical, the so-called "lightning divorce," introduced in paragraph 2 of Article 1. Colleagues, the problem here is not children or children. Let's not hide behind a finger. With this arrangement we really want to empty the whole sense of marriage, risking making Italy a Las Vegas of Europe. I hope that we will come back with an in-depth reflection on these issues which I consider to be crucial, because deleveraging such a fundamental institution will have consequences that we will pay for and that our children will pay for. I shall conclude, Madam President, with one consideration. I know very well that marriage involves commitment, and it could be said that it is too high a commitment, that needs to be adapted to the poor abilities of individuals. Personally, I do not agree with this approach; and if I know that commitment is high, I also think it is worth challenging, as it were, people to aim high. If I think about the legacy that we want to leave to the citizens of tomorrow, I want to think that this legacy is something high to offer him, with the knowledge that the state also supports such a great commitment. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u40	Senator Dalla Zuanna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u41	Madam President, during the new century there have been about 85,000 separations and 50,000 divorces in Italy each year, with little change over time. It can be estimated that one out of three marriages celebrated in Italy in the last decade of the twentieth century will end with a separation, but only one in five will end with a divorce. A particular characteristic of Italy is the wide temporal distance between marriage and separation (on average 16 years between marriage and enrollment in the role). This distance is not reduced over time. In 2012, half of the separations and one third of the divorces involved at least one child in custody. Not all separations end with a divorce: during the last twenty years, in one case out of three spouses do not go from being separated to being divorced. Therefore, the condition of separate or separate - a peculiar characteristic of Italy and a few other countries - is chosen as almost definitive by a significant number of couples and the dynamic between separation and divorce is very stable over time. Thus, the idea of an overwhelming and growing number of couples chained by too long a time between separation and divorce is wrong. The numbers tell us that only a limited number of couples feel the urgency to narrow down the time. In addition, separated couples who feel the urgency of divorce are a minority. In 2012 there were 50,000 divorces: only in 38 percent of cases the distance between separation and registration to the role was three years. In most cases, the distance has been much greater (this has nothing to do with the lengths of our justice, but it is precisely a choice of people): 42 percent of the cases between four and seven years, 21 percent of the cases even more than seven years. So it can be expected that the request for a short divorce may affect just under 20,000 couples a year in the coming years, the other 30,000 will continue to prefer longer times. The majority of separated couples tend to move with caution with respect to divorce: avoiding to ask - therefore preferring to maintain the status of separate or separate - or asking only after a period of separation much longer than that provided at least by the current law. The institution of separation is very Italian, but - as my colleague Mr Fattorini said well - it is by no means synonymous with cultural backwardness. He has found lasting and consolidated acceptance in the habits of couples who want to put an end to marital cohabitation, but do not want to suspend altogether a bond that could re-knot or persist, even if weak, throughout their lives. Even without evoking the opportunistic use of divorce - which also exists - the empirical study of the actual behavior of the Italians suggests to the legislator to address these issues with much circumspection. Shortening the time between separation and divorce is reasonable, because it allows to speed up the paths for that minority who - after a marriage failure - wants to quickly stabilize a new couple's story or wants to exhaust all the legal effects of the previous marriage. The proposal adopted by a very large majority in the House (the votes in favour were 300 against 40) seems acceptable to me, reducing the minimum distance between separation and divorce to six months in case of consensual procedure (which affects 70% of divorces today), to one year in case of litigation. This is a very significant reduction, a sixth or a third of the current time. It is a balanced choice even in the presence of minor children, because - if it is in any case reasonable to maintain a period of reflection after the marital separation - if the conjugal fracture is effective and deep, for the sake of the children it is appropriate to stabilize the new situation in not excessively prolonged times. In the present Italian historical context, direct divorce appears instead a forcing, which finds - as I have tried to demonstrate - few justifications in the actual behavior of couples. By introducing direct divorce, the legislator would indicate a path today largely foreign to the Italian culture of couple life, not practiced or required by the great majority of citizens involved in married crisis paths. Allow me a little final comment on some observations of my colleague and friend Lo Giudice, with whom I share my passion for themes that - at the end of the day - concern the happiness of people. In the last forty years marriages have decreased not only in Italy, but in all Western countries, regardless of the laws in force on divorce. They have declined for many reasons, but especially because - throughout the West - society as a whole now accepts without problems the living together more uxorio and the extranutial births as possible choices and not sanctionable. Yet, contrary to what many scholars believed, marriage has not disappeared, indeed in countries like Sweden, where even half of the children are born out of marriage, we get married (and we talk about first marriages) more frequently than in Italy. Let me, as a statistician, as they say, lend to politics, urge you not to be trapped in a famous sentence by Disraeli: Politicians use statistics like drunks use streetlights: not for light, but for support. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u42	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u43	We greet the students and students of the Bulgarian School in Rome "Saints Cyril and Methodius." Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]] We also greet the members of the Board of Directors of the Consorzio fruitico del Conta, in Trentino-Alto Adige. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u46	MORRA (M5S). Collegi, it is exactly from Monday 2 March that the Highway A3 between the municipalities of Laino Borgo and Mormanno is interrupted for a very serious tragedy that has produced a death at work. This should in itself be a very serious cause for concern and shame, because, if you die because you are working, some problems the country has to put it. However, what has happened deserves some reflections: as we know, the roadway of the Viaduct Italy collapsed precisely during renovation work. First of all, from a legal and technical point of view, I think that this tragedy, with all the inconveniences that are resulting from it, must impose a strict reflection on the system of conferring public works with the objective law. Again, it is an objective law, that is, a regulatory instrument that has allowed some companies, in order to obtain assignments, contracts and works, to endanger human lives. This is unacceptable, so the challenge facing Parliament in the near future is precisely to rethink the procurement code and revise an institution that was born with other objectives and is causing enormous damage. Secondly, I would like to point out that the questions which have already been tabled and which are asking for speed up the time taken to seize the area, on which the Castrovillari judiciary is already intervening, must be carefully considered, and not to speed up the times of justice, because in the meantime justice must be done. However, we must also allow the Calabrian and Sicilian economy - let me say this - to have a functional, rapid and democratic transport system, because not all citizens of the South, Sicilians and Calabrians, can use means of transport other than those on rubber. Therefore still today, in 2015, they are unfortunately obliged to resort to the highway, also because Trenitalia has closed with the South, especially with Sicily and Calabria (remembering a famous novel, we could say that Trenitalia stopped in Eboli). But we are also Italians, as well as citizens of the world, so we demand that the Italian Government intervene with all the instruments at its disposal, because the South, and especially Sicily and Calabria, cannot be further considered alone and only consumer market. We too have rights and justice to demand, but this cannot be done unless we invest massively in infrastructure, with intelligence and honesty. It must end the time in which to spend in any way and at any cost: you have to spend, yes, but with justice and rationality and with respect for legality. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u49	ZIZA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Region of Puglia has authorised, without involving at first the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, the discharge of waste water, which flows into the Royal Canal, of the municipalities of the toast of Carovigno, San Michele Salentino and San Vito dei Normanni, in the marine reserve of Torre Guaceto. After several reminders made by the undersigned and various environmental associations, directly questioning the Minister of the environment, on October 27, 2014 the Region Puglia, together with the society Aquedotto Pugliese, in the presence of the representatives of the Consortium of Torre Guaceto, has announced a project of delivery alternative to that of the Royal Channel, with the predisposition of draining trenches. The Region, according to the timing always planned in that session, had the task of summoning the bodies competent for the granting of the necessary authorizations; only after it the Aqueduct Pugliese should have started within the next three months, with procedures of urgency and charges to own, the realization of the aforementioned barriers. To date, from news in my possession, the schedule presented by the Region Puglia, that provided for the realization of the draining barriers within the spring, has not been respected, in how much still lack, in spite of the solicitations, the opinions and the authorizations of the Superintendence for the archaeological goods and landscapes and of the society Italian Railway Network. Today, March 11, after five and a half months we are faced with an apocalyptic scenario, which will see a few months after the start of the tourist season, the compromise of the same. I appeal to your extraordinary intervention to unlock this tragic situation, also because, as the regional elections approached, we would not want the commitment promised by the Apulian Region and the Aqueduct society to be conditioned by it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Buccarella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u52	FUCKSIA (M5S). President. - The next item is the report (Doc. The institutional accreditation rules provide for a timely verification of all requirements before obtaining final approval of the practice. In particular, for the law n. 189 of 2012 (of conversion of the so-called Balduzzi decree), to article 4, paragraph 4, each Region should implement a control of the charitable activities and their quality, aimed at verifying the standards of the services of the accredited public and private health structures. The subsequent measures of the Regions have provided for clinical risk management and quality control units in complex structures. Where are they? Nothing or almost happened, indeed several Regions, like Campania, have abolished the regional structures constituted, delegate the controls to the individual ASL. Do not carry out checks on the verification of requirements, as well as on waste, to extend for years the deadlines for institutional accreditation, not to close obsolete or inadequate structures, is the fertile ground for so many innocent victims. Political inability, incompetence, inappropriateness in health care, added to corruption, piloted delays in justice, structural and logistical deficiencies delay results and increase deaths. The Ministry inspectors only move after very serious events with actual results equal to zero. How many health managers are removed because of the events in their inadequate facilities? How many officials who have not properly checked have been fired? The answer is known. A sound and structured system for monitoring medical and welfare activities in public and private facilities should be established by carrying out continuous checks on accreditation procedures and their effective application. Finally, the proposal to set up a Committee of Inquiry into the effectiveness and efficiency of the National Health Service has been filed in the Health Commission since the beginning of the parliamentary term. The option of putting before us a survey of the sustainability of the Health Service has taken a long time: I therefore urge that this bill be set up as soon as possible for the Commission of Inquiry to be set up. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u53	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-408.ana.u54	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 12 March, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.56 p.m.
