ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 17.10 a.m. I would remind you that the Minutes of the sitting of Tuesday 3 November were not approved at yesterday's sitting. Therefore, before we proceed to read the Minutes of yesterday's sitting, the Minutes of the sitting of Tuesday, 3 November must be approved. Since there are no comments, the Minutes of the sitting of Tuesday, 3 November are hereby approved. I invite the Senator Secretary to read the Minutes of yesterday's sitting. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u3	The next item is the report by the Government on the attacks in Paris. After the intervention of the representative of the Government, each group will have five minutes available. I call the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Gentiloni Silveri.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the passing of days has not alleviated the emotion and pain that we all feel for the attack on Paris and France. It was an infamous attack, in which nearly 130 people lost their lives and, among them, one of our fellow citizens: Valeria Solesin, a smart, generous woman, an example for every Italian. [[The Assembly stands. Applause.]] I believe that with this applause the Senate also wants to embrace his loved ones, his parents who, in these days for them terrible, are setting an example of civilization and humanity valid for all. Last Friday's attack also affected us and Europe as a whole. We say to our French brothers and sisters that we will react together with the solidarity and cooperation that France, in accordance with Article 42 (7) of the Treaty, has requested this morning from the Council of Ministers for Defence of the European Union and that the 28 countries have unanimously assured, whose characteristics Rome and Paris will discuss together in the coming days, because it is a solidarity - so to speak - bilateral, which does not involve a commitment of the European Union. Two things are already very clear about this terrible tragedy. The first is that it was an attack of a new level, due to the number of terrorists involved, their coordination, the ferocity in striking common targets and the use of explosive belts. This was an unprecedented attack. The other very clear thing is the identity of those responsible: Islamic fundamentalist terrorism; a terrorism that is not born today - it has lasted for about a quarter of a century - but that since the summer of 2014, with the challenge of Daesh, has become much more dangerous. It is dangerous because today it controls a rather vast territory between two semi-failed states in Mesopotamia and has considerable financial resources that derive from it first of all from the banks (whose control it has acquired occupying those territories), from the smuggling of oil and works of art and from other different sources on which we are working. It is dangerous because it is able to attract between 25,000 and 30,000 foreign fighters. Although the Italians are just under 100, I think the figure of 25,000-30,000 fighters should make us think. Moreover, in the days before the attack in Paris, Islamic fundamentalist terrorism had struck elsewhere: from the Russian jet - as President Putin denounced today, it was destroyed by an explosive device - to the massacre of 42 citizens in Beirut, which took place just on the eve of the events in Paris. How to cope with this challenge? That is the subject at the heart of our debate. I believe that the first answer is simple: we must fight terrorism with the aim of destroying its ability to control the territory and eradicate its attractiveness among the radicalized young people of many European metropolis. Listen to François Hollande's words at yesterday's sitting of the Congress of Parliament. Hollande said that, to kill the French, they were - and it is cruel to say - largely other French people, individuals who go from delinquency to radicalization and then to terrorist crime. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Paris massacre takes place at a particular time when Daesh together has this new capacity to strike, but also his weakness on the ground. In Iraq, in Tikrit, a city liberated a few months ago, 90 percent of the inhabitants returned to the city. We did not expect it: it was a positive surprise for the entire coalition. The encircling of the strategic city of Ramadi, capital of the al-Anbar region, is now complete. The last and most significant development was the liberation of Sinjar, on the border between Iraq and Syria. The area - as you remember - populated by Yazida, Christian and Syriac minorities, was the subject of the probably most visible conquest by Daesh in the summer of 2014. American helicopters intervened to save some of the survivors, from what then appeared as an unstoppable advance. Well, Sinjar has been released and this operation has allowed to cut the main artery that connects those that for Daesh would be the two capitals - Raqqa and Mosul - of their areas, Syrian and Iraqi. In the same weeks, in Syria, the Kurdish-Syrians of the People's Protection Unit (YPG), assisted by the American special forces, are accentuating pressure from the North towards the other capital, namely Raqqa. And - as you know - especially around Raqqa are being bombed by US, Australian, Turkish and lately French forces. You heard yesterday that President Hollande said in Parliament that the French bombings and operations will continue unceasingly over the next few days. It is in this context that Russian military intervention, partly directed against Daesh, was included in September, but in part large in the west of Syria, where Assad's regime was in greatest difficulty. This intervention has so far had a limited military impact, but a very significant political impact, perhaps decisive for the future of the Syrian crisis. Italy does its part in this context and I believe that we must say it with pride, because we have hundreds of our soldiers engaged in this work. I believe, therefore, that no one can underestimate the commitment and quality of our women and our men in uniform engaged in that area. [[Applause]] We are from the beginning in the political-military coalition that fights Daesh. We are part of the group of 22 countries that coordinate its activities. Our armed forces are present with 280 units in Iraq, 200 of which work for the training of those peshmerga who freed the Sinjar area a few days ago. Let us also remember this with pride, because Italy is the leading nation, at this moment, in the military training of the Kurdish forces, which are the decisive forces on the ground, in the Iraqi context. I believe that we can and must proudly claim this role. Finally, our country plays a very appreciated role in the training of the Iraqi police, for which some 100 trainers of our carabinieri operate in Baghdad [[Applause from the PD and CoR groups]] , also in this case leading the coalition in the difficult mission of rebuilding the capabilities of the Iraqi police. We do a lot, then, but I believe - and I said this to the House yesterday - that we must and can do more, because the situation before us imposes it. This is not the time today to discuss the details of our future commitment; we will discuss it with the coalition, and we will decide it during parliamentary activity. This is the time to reiterate that we are doing a lot, we can and we must do even more. In addition to fighting Daesh, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Italy must play an increasingly important role in contributing to the political orientation of the coalition, so as not to repeat the mistakes of the past: the mistakes made by the West in Iraq, Libya and Syria itself; errors from which, in part, the threat and offensive of terrorists have matured. The temptation to repeat mistakes, in fact, is often untenable, while we should always be honest with ourselves in recognizing that the strength of this criminal offensive partly depends also on these mistakes. In Syria we Italians say two very simple things: the first is that a political transition is needed to drive away the dictator Assad, responsible for the most dramatic humanitarian crisis in recent years (250,000 deaths, millions of refugees). Assad must be removed, but without the vacuum that will be created being filled by Daesh or al-Nusra, and therefore with a transition process. The second thing we say is that the Russians can be fundamental in contributing to this solution and to the political transition. The Vienna meetings, attended by the five permanent members of the Security Council, Germany and Italy and 10 countries of the Region, opened a window in this direction. It is only a glimpse, ladies and gentlemen - and I do not think we have to deal with easy optimisms about this - which, however, goes exactly in the direction that Italy has wished for. And he wanted it while others cultivated the risky illusion of being able to hunt Assad before any hint of negotiation or described the Russian presence only as a threat and not as a great opportunity. This was not the case, and we were right to say that this was the necessary path. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will win this challenge if we lead it as Italians, as Europeans, as Westerners and if - I mean - we continue to be ourselves. They want to destroy our freedoms, our culture, religious faiths other than theirs, the role of women: they are exactly the values that we, on the other hand, want to defend. [[Applause.]] And to defend them, we will fight. And we will do so not by declaring war on Islam, but by fighting fundamentalist terrorists, what King Abd Allah of Jordan calls our renegades. We will try to do so with the majority of Islamic communities living in our countries, and we must involve them in this decisive challenge. The Italians ask us not to proclaim more or less roboating, but to defend our security without sacrificing our freedom and our way of life: this is what the Italians ask us. We will work to drive and neutralize terrorists, wherever they are infiltrated or trying to infiltrate, but without confusing the criminals with the tens of thousands of men, women and children fleeing from wars and dictatorships. And we will have to try to do so, ladies and gentlemen, as is done in all the great countries, that is, together with the Government and Parliament, together with the majority and opposition. Precisely because the moment is so difficult, it is together that we must overcome fear, ensure the safety of our fellow citizens and defend our homeland. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u5	I call the Minister for the Interior, Mr Alfano.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the words and declarations of solidarity expressed by several parties these days to the French friends, the French Government and the French people. To solidarity with France, we unite our closeness to the families of the victims and to all those who have felt a pain in this terrible circumstance. The facts of Paris demonstrate with a cruel eloquence that no country can be considered completely safe from the risk of a terrorist attack. As I have said countless times and I still insist on repeating it, there is no zero level of risk: there is rather - and I shall speak about it extensively - the possibility of acting on the risk factor, in order to ensure that the size and incidence capacity are reasonably reduced as much as possible. But we come to the reconstruction of what happened in our country immediately after the attacks. The response from the security system was immediate, allowing, from the first hours after those events, to take any preventive measures considered appropriate to the ongoing evolution of the threat. A first circular of the Chief of Police, addressed to all the prefects and quaestors of Italy, was sent out in the late evening of last Friday and raised the level of alert to grade 2, corresponding to that of high risk, that is to say the one immediately below the level activated in the cases of terrorist attack in progress. I immediately clarify that the elevation of the alert state does not correspond to the fact that, in conjunction with the massacres of Paris, signals have been recorded which are considered indicative of specific terrorist initiatives that target our territory or interest attributable to Italy. No. It means, rather, that prevention activities are deployed at their highest level, as it is right and natural for them to be in the aftermath of such violence. This means - for example - even more attention in carrying out all those preventive activities that are carried out at the most important traffic junctions, railway stations, port and airport ports and which involve or may require meticulous control of passengers and inspections of baggage and goods. This is exactly what happened in the hours immediately following the events in Paris, when the supervision of trains to and from France was intensified, as well as within the stations that are located along its border band. The raising of the alert also allows the rapid activation - of course in case of necessity - of the special departments of the police forces, in particular of NOCS and GIS, and of the military special forces called to enter into action in scenarios of particular complexity, an operational complexity that should occur. Returning to the initiatives taken after the attacks, I would point out that on the morning of 14 November a meeting of the Committee for Strategic Counter-Terrorism Analysis (CASA) was convened, which carried out a first analysis of the Parisian events. The extraordinary session of the National Committee for Public Security and Order, chaired at the Viminale by the President of the Council of Ministers Matteo Renzi, was also based on the elements that emerged at that meeting. It is in that place that it was decided to anticipate the use in Rome of the additional quota of 1,000 men of the Armed Forces, whose use aimed at the specific needs of the Jubilee had been decided the day before by the Council of Ministers within the framework of the decree-law dedicated not only to Rome, but also to other specific territorial requirements. Just now, the immediate deployment operations of 700 military are being completed, to which, in the next few days, will be added the other units that will complete this additional device. I would like to stress that this is an additional nucleus, that is, more men made available to Capital precisely because of the greater demands for control arising from the Jubilee. And I want to be concrete saying that, in Rome, it is already available to the prefect a contingent of about 1,300 soldiers, specifically 1,296, within the framework of the Safe Roads operation, which saw in 2015 the employment of 4,800 men throughout the national territory and which will see the employment of as many men in 2016, according to the forecasts included in the law of stability, and to those 4,800 must be added those who participated in the Expo. I have said and I repeat that the use of rates of the armed forces does not correspond to the plan to militarize the capital. The competition of the Armed Forces will be measured and, precisely as such, limited and limited only to the fixed garrison of sensitive objectives. This will optimise efforts and be able to de-engage a corresponding number of police resources to use them in operational and information-investigative jobs for the prevention and control of the territory. Moreover, Rome is adequately guarded already by our police forces and it is the case to remember that the effective force, that is concretely deployed in the Capital and in the territory of the Province, is little higher today than 24,000 units between State Police, which competes with a greater rate (equal to 11,694 operators), Arma dei carabinieri (counting 7.438), and Guardia di Finanza (which, in turn, employs 4.897). However, despite such remarkable numbers there is a further strengthening of the bodies that will not only affect Rome, but will also affect other Italian cities particularly representative in the perspective of the Jubilee event due to the presence of significant vestiges of Christendom. Meanwhile, 1,197 additional units of the police forces have been assigned to Rome; moreover, since next June, by virtue of new recruitments authorized by Decree-Law No. 78 of this year, 2,500 additional units will be employed, whose predominant part will be symmetrically divided between the State Police and the Carabinieri Arm (i.e. 1,050 each), while a rate of 400 men will instead be incorporated by the Finance Guard. From this month on, it will also be possible to strengthen the police headquarters located in some centres of religious tourism that, with the Jubilee Year at the gates, will surely see increased flows of pilgrims: I refer to the cities of Padua and Perugia, but also to Ancona and Foggia, in relation to the Holy House of Loreto and the sanctuary of San Giovanni Rotondo. On the same day on Saturday the Chief of Police issued a second alert circular; the attention of the provincial authorities of public security was drawn to some essential activities dictated by the particular moment. In this context, it was stressed the need to increase those particular activities which the new emerging context has prioritised. The checks on road arteries, rail networks and border crossing points have therefore been implemented, in particular by strengthening, with the sending of additional men, the main points of transit with France, also as a result of agreements with the same transalpine safety authorities. With regard to the possible risk of striking acts also on our territory, it was then requested to update the plans that provide for the use, of course possible, of the operational units of first intervention of the State Police, constituted at some quaestures after the attack on the drafting of "Charlie Hebdo". These are special task forces designed to deal with the most critical situations of intervention thanks to their training. At the same time, the framework for analysing sensitive objectives was updated to adapt surveillance measures and provincial counter-terrorism and emergency plans to different risk conditions. On yesterday's day - I could not tell the House because it happened later - a further circular was finally adopted by the Chief of Police with which precise provisions were given so that at all the events that recall the massive participation of crowds are carried out accurate and meticulous police checks to prevent any risk related to possible infiltration of dangerous elements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course, the preparation of security plans for the Jubilee event goes back long before the tragic attacks of 13 November took place. A general directive for the planning of public security and order services and integrated emergency management was issued by the Department of Public Security to the prefects and quaestors of Italy last 22 October. The method that is being followed is called into question several groups and technical work tables, because, basically, the work carried out so far has intended to greatly enhance - and will continue to do so - the principles of synergy, collegiality and coordination. That is to say that we are working with the utmost awareness that we must involve every component of the prevention system and every component of the safety system in order to ensure that every possible risk hypothesis finds its response in a specific and studied countermeasure. The central governance of this overall prevention mechanism is of course ensured by the Department of Public Security and basically has the task of continuously outlining and updating risk scenarios and, consequently, developing organisational, technical and management measures aimed at ensuring the best performance of the Jubilee and related initiatives. As I mentioned, I would like to point out that there is continuous cooperation with all the other competent bodies of the State in various ways affected by the Jubilee event. The operational and informative link has been activated, therefore, both with the operational command of interforce summit of the Ministry of Defense, and with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in particular to guarantee the protective devices in favor of the foreign personalities and delegations who will intervene at the ceremonies scheduled. The heart of this model, which makes Italian experience one of the most advanced in the world of intelligence, is represented by the Committee of Strategic Anti-Terrorism Analysis which sits at the Department of Public Security. This is the driving force, that is the institutional place of high coordination, in which the anti-terrorism joints of the police forces and the information and security agencies of the country work side by side with methodical frequency, activating an osmotic exchange, the final result of which is to strengthen the news heritage and the informative baggage of each actor. Here the analysis of the evolution of the various risk scenarios is constantly refined and it is from here that the system generates, in the direction of all the protagonists of safety, the necessary alerts to keep the guard always high. It is a methodology that I myself have brought as an example of Italian best practice, which can be transposed into the fora of international cooperation, involving more closely the different national agencies and also bodies such as Europol and Interpol. The commitment of individual countries, in fact, is an insufficient condition compared to the globality and diffusion of the jihadist threat, capable of cleverly camouflaging in European societies evading police checks and inspections. I would like to add that the awareness of acquiring and conveying information with the widest circularity is the operational foundation of a technical group of the European Council, the Police working group on terrorism, whose mandate has been appropriately oriented to the fight against foreign fighters. The new fact, highlighted by the tragic death sequence of Friday evening, is instead the apparent randomity of the objectives chosen by the commando of the attackers. No more places to symbolize the opposition, even cultural, to the jihad, as was in January of this year on the occasion of the massacre of satirical journalists of Charlie Hebdo; no more objectives attributable to interests of countries considered hostile, to which the devastating fury of the kamikaze has always been addressed. No: the target of the terrorists in action is represented, this time, by a multiplicity of what analysts define the soft targets, places of common aggregation destined, in various forms, for recreation and fun (a bar, a restaurant, a stadium, a concert hall), which seems to follow a perverse logic of frontal attack on the most elementary freedoms, our lifestyles, our own way of being and living our Western being. We must not, however, lose sight of what we still consider the most desirable objectives, linked to the essence of the terrorist threat and its ideological fanaticism of religious origin. It is quite natural, therefore, that the level of concern may grow in conjunction with the imminent start of the Extraordinary Jubilee of Mercy. Moreover, the person of the Pontiff, the Vatican, Rome and the other symbols of Christendom have already been at the center of threatening declarations, inciting destruction and hatred, such as those that - in September 2014 and also in January this year - were pronounced by Mohammad al-Adnani, the spokesman of the Islamic State, and then spread through the web, the most evocative and powerful strategic weapon used by Islamic terrorism. It is for this reason that the planning of safety devices, related to the development of the Holy Year, focuses on the most sensitive and at risk points, starting from Piazza San Pietro, where massive masses of visitors and pilgrims will flow, especially on the occasion of the most significant ceremonies. Their influx will follow established paths and the filtering will be carried out both in transit, with the help of portable metal detectors, and at the time of access to the square, with the obligatory passage through new fixed stations equipped with latest generation devices. Particular attention is paid to the risk that a terrorist attack can be carried from above, also using remotely piloted aerial devices, better known as drones. I would like to reassure you that every aspect of a possible aerial threat has been deepened at an interforce and interdisciplinary level, involving also the military Air Force, ENAC and ENAV, regarding the extension of the measures that will stop the overflight during the entire Jubilee period. Moreover, the issue of airspace control is also closely followed by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, at which an ad hoc coordination table has been set up, for both critical analysis and the identification of operational solutions. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the French events undoubtedly show that the degree of fearlessness of the jihadist threat has greatly increased. It is now focusing on new objectives never before considered among those sensitive, and shows unpredictability that make the work of contrast and especially prevention much more difficult. The French story of these days also seems to offer a new key to the reading of the terrorist offensive; it emerges even more clearly, therefore, the need for the scourge of Islamic terrorism to be tackled by the international community unitedly, with systemic initiatives and with a broad front of alliances. We have always supported this instance of cohesion and particularly advocated it at national level, associating it with a continuous commitment to strengthen our security system. The data on the operation achieved in the course of 2015 are to demonstrate how serious and tenacious the produced effort is. We cannot deny in this House that Italy has not been involved in the dramatic chronology of terror which, since the start of this century and the beginning of this millennium, has destroyed, from the point of view of pain, so many communities in the world. Data on operations achieved are significant. In the various operational contexts, 56,426 people have been monitored since 1 January this year and 540 searches have been carried out on subjects in various ways related to terrorism. Over 8,000 vehicles and 160 ships have been searched and searched. I want to make it clear that this was not a matter of occasional checks, but of targeted checks, which involved subjects on which, thanks to careful observation, the attention of the investigative bodies had already been drawn. As a result, 147 people were arrested, more than double (i.e. 325) were investigated in a state of freedom and, finally, 55 others were expelled and repatriated for reasons of state security or the prevention of terrorism, such as radicalized subjects, imams, women and men who had given thought to our security systems and who were expelled. Recent operations have also led to the tracing of two foreign citizens with clear evidence of belongings to extremist groups: he is a Pakistani and a Tunisian, the latter already expelled after a condemnation for terrorism, returned to Italy, but immediately identified and expelled a second time. And it is just a few days ago a great operation that has led to the arrest of 17 people in an international scenario, demonstrating how the system of police and judicial cooperation between us and other countries also works. In addition, the cultural and religious aggregation sites linked to Islamism have been systematically monitored, with careful monitoring and census activity. I repeat: dangerous imams have been identified and removed, responsible for the processes of radicalization and incitement to violence, because this is a great democracy and ours is a great country. We recognize the right of worship and the right to prayer. We say to the million and 600,000 Muslims who are present in Italy that we know well who prays from those who shoot; who prays continue to pray and distance themselves from those who shoot, because we will hunt and chase those who shoot and those who want to give solidarity to those who shoot, but we will be able to distinguish prayer from crime. A prevention activity, a gray and tiring activity, which by its very constitution tends to prevent a negative event from happening, has been put in place and continues incessantly. And therefore the failure of that event does not produce the satisfaction of one day. The summary of the data on the operation achieved comforts us on the maintenance of the safety equipment, but it cannot delude us on the invulnerability of our country. The confrontation between President Renzi and the parliamentary leaders was a moment of unity in which feelings of national cohesion prevailed and a strong call to the responsibility of the political forces. It is precisely in stressing this call to unity and in reaffirming the results of prevention, the operational results and the fact that our country has remained alien to the dramatic events of these three lusts since 2001, I can only say that all this has happened for various reasons, among which I allow myself in this House to emphasize the sacrifice, the strength, the energy, the competence of women and men of the Forces of Order, the Armed Forces, all those who have guarded the territory of our Republic without taking care of the shifts, but having in the heart the Italian flag [[Applause.]] I also hope that the passing of days will not extinguish this united spirit, because Parliament will soon fire the law of stability for 2016 and already in the declarations of these hours you can see the awareness that we need to reconsider for the better (because we have had the last three years with the positive sign) the resources allocated to security to adapt them to the additional effort that in recent months, and perhaps even beyond, the national apparatuses will have to support. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). That's not true! ALFANO, Minister for the Interior. I believe that this can be an initial, concrete and significant proof of real national cohesion which is necessary, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, because we are all aware that we are experiencing a very complex and difficult history. That is, we are living the history of governments and peoples in struggle for freedom; a freedom threatened by those who claim, through violence, to affirm the existence of a State by deleting others. This is the story of a megalomaniac ambition of a man who claims to be caliph and the mad race of thousands of young Europeans who believe that they can purify their soul by killing in the name of God, a God who would never allow this barbarism. So never before is it clear to everyone that security and freedom are two parts of a single set and that is why we will continue to do everything possible and human to ensure security, because we want to defend our freedom. Our fathers and grandparents died to give it to us. We're not gonna make it steal. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), Mixed and AL-A Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u7	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the group of young people from Carmignano di Brenta, in the province of Padua, who are the winners of the active Youth project: the future in our hands, accompanied by the mayor, are witnessing our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u8	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Government. Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u9	Mr President, today is an important day and I hope that you will take account of the fact that this debate, although very conditioned by the time of the examination of the stability bill (the reason why all the leaders, including myself, shared the need to be as quick as possible), is so important that I am sure you will want to give us a few more minutes. Today, in fact, Mr President, we are discussing what happened on 11 September of Europe, nothing more and nothing less, and that, by virtue of that 11 September of France and Europe, the request of France for solidarity to a friendly country, our friend, be immediately accepted. This is a commitment that we cannot fail to make, a support that we do not want and we cannot deny to a country that has suddenly found itself in the condition of having to declare war on those who declared war on its territory. You cannot be hypocrites on this, Mr Gentiloni. I very much appreciate your approach, your caution, your great knowledge of the phenomenon, but there is a fact to which we cannot fail. We're in an emergency. Exactly the emergency that you live in times of war. We would like, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to say that this is the time of hope and not of war, or of imagining, as the notes of the song that has become the soundtrack of this reaction, first of all emotional. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I would ask you to help our debate if you can. [[Call the president back.]] But the time of imagining is also the time of not postponing, because today's living France warns us about tomorrow which could be the fate of each of our European peoples. And we have an obligation to foresee it, to imagine it for ourselves, for our children and for Europe as a whole; to note that we have failed, in all respects, before that warning. Because we are on that bench, with our wrong immigration policies and also with educational models that have fallen behind on the subject of European identity, Christian identity, in favour of a threatening identity for our cultural and social fabric. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]] It is that weakness that lies on the bench of the accused that makes us feel lost, and that today we pay, in terms of security, for not having been able yesterday to remedy decades of completely wrong migratory policies. Hollande reminded us, when he pointed out that those crimes, that horror, were committed by French against other French. And we must have the courage to say that the outskirts of some of our great cities, from Turin to Padua in Rome, where entire neighborhoods are now the exclusive prerogative of immigrant communities, are not very different from that frighteningly harmful model of the Parisian banlieues, which has long sounded like a powerful alarm bell. The courage to say that those legalized ghettos, where the seed of radicalism and extremism sprout undisturbed, are domestic time bombs. The courage to look at reality in the face, to give up goodness, and also to qualuquism, and to say, clearly and vigorously, that the reception does not rhyme with integration. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Bignami.]] Welcome doesn't make the pair with integration! You have said very well, Minister, that that integration, which has failed to date (in fact, heavily questioned by today's dramatic events), has a profound root. Neither I, nor any other Italian citizen, intend to integrate with those who perpetrate against women an unacceptable barbarity for us! You said it well; I am obliged to say it better. I do not intend to integrate with those who force women in our country, in the country of freedom and conquests, to go around the street covered in black from head to toe or, worse, to stay locked in the house! [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Centinario.]] No integration! This Parliament cannot vote on this, and I do not even want to imagine wanting to vote on the lius soli, which is the antechamber of what has happened to France in recent years, and these days in particular. I will never pass laws that allow these people to become Italian citizens and one day to kill Italian citizens. [[Protests from the PD Group.]] But I would like to return to the constructive nature of a proposal, because if this is the time of hope, I am in favour of accepting every call for cohesion. We did this on Saturday before the President-in-Office of the Council and I hope that we will be recognized. But cohesion does not mean hypocrisy or infiguration. Let's clear up what we're cohesive about. We are on the time of action and timeliness. We call for a powerful and far-sighted action, which can impose itself on those complex dynamics which you have described, Minister, delicate and differentiated, which are now irreparably changing the geopolitical, social and even military balances in the world, where, if we do not know how to govern, those facts will govern us. It is the time of anger and pride, as Oriana Fallaci said. And I would like to take up, for example, among the proposals put forward, the tight border controls that we need to develop and increase, Schengen or not Schengen.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u10	Please finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u11	BONFRISCO (CoR). Thank you, Mr President, I certainly do. It is also necessary to study better what are, in the centres of aggregation of these immigrants, those realities where dangerous phenomena are definitely nested. For example, I would like to refer to the proposal that what are, who are and how many are the imams in our country, as well as to have the courage to demand that those preaching take place in the Italian language, since they take place on Italian territory, and in order to be able to control the phenomenon better and closely. I also refer, for example, to the proposal for administrative checks on all those businesses, which is vital to the penetration of these realities into our social fabric, but above all economic. Because we control every receipt to the Italian shopkeepers and to the Chinese shopkeepers and immigrants do not control anything at all! [[Applause from the CoR Group and the Senators Simeoni and Bignami]] I therefore agree with what Mr Alfano said about the role of the police and security forces. I hope that Minister Alfano will take advantage of the law of stability, which is in the queue of discussion in the Senate, to explain to those men and women that their value is not recognized by increasing their salary of 5 euros per month, because if the words correspond to the facts, those 5 euros are an offense to those men and those women. [[Applause from Senator Simeoni]] As I hope, Minister Alfano, that the drones you want to control so well on the occasion of the Jubilee - and you are right to do so - do not look like the helicopter of Casamonica, but instead there is a real and effective control, which at the moment I do not think there is [[Applause from Senator Simeoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u12	For the second time, I invite you to conclude, Senator Bonfrisco.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u13	BONFRISCO (CoR). Thank you, President. I'm done. If there have been 8,000 checks, I remind you that 8,000 checks are equivalent to a check for every Italian municipality and to me, objectively, it seems a little 'uncomfortable! I thank the police and security forces, all of them, and also the coordination of intelligence services that allowed the recent arrest in Merano. It's okay, it's okay. Too bad, however, that the gentleman was in our country at our expense, at 35 euros a day, and that overall, between him and his children, he took 2,000 euros a month of support for his family! If Italian families could have 2,000 euros of support, they would feel a bit more Italian citizens and not B-series citizens. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u14	Colleagues, we greet the students and students of the Institute of Higher Education Leonardo Sinisgalli of Senise, in the province of Potenza, who are following our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u15	He is registered to speak Senator Mario Mauro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u16	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Minister for the Interior, the point of this speech is that the Government's appeal to national cohesion should not be lost, and in this respect it seems useful to me to try to outline some of the elements of the scenario surrounding our internal political debate. There was a very close time - the day before yesterday - when American President Barak Obama sat down with the only interpreters to discuss with Putin about what to do in the overflowing Middle Eastern chaos. It is the same tenant of the White House - it is worth remembering - who continues to demand from the European Union the trade boycott of Russia. The victims of Paris, such as those in New York, Madrid and London, and, unfortunately, those we are still afraid of having to count in Europe deserve our indignation and pietas. Europeans have the right and duty to defend their civilization against yet another barbarism. The people of democratic Europe themselves do not deserve to see their history betrayed by rhetoric, nor to see themselves proposed or imposed common commitments where all too often the interests of individual countries continue to prevail. It is right, therefore, that Italy should stand side by side with an affected and stunned France and the traditional allies, but without giving side by side with ambiguity of vision that we have already paid and so much in the recent case of Libya. And if coalition must be, as there is, in order to defeat ISIS, however, one knows how to keep to precise obligations not only the other European countries - including also the distinctions on strategies - not only Russia and the United States, but also Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Iran, to whose war games, conducted with an approach from an apprentice sorcerer, we owe much of the present hell. It is right to be clear in the relationship with the allies and it is right to expect Turkey to clarify its role in integrating ISIS training camps across the border. That Saudi Arabia and Qatar are more concrete than the unavoidable information they have to give regarding the financing of ISIS. And that Iran, while giving elements of encouragement on the scenario of atomic weapons, should be more concrete in clarifying the role it plays in this war by proxy that is being fought in Syria. Similarly, I believe that it is good for the Government, through the President of the Council, to invoke national cohesion and, that is, an attitude on the part of the opposition that does not look at the aims of consensus, but that exalts and privileges the interest of the Homeland and its citizens, provided that this does not mean the claim of opposition to the towing of a Government that intends to cover Marchian errors and lack of decision. Just to be clear: there is a Republican opposition that denounces the lack of a structural commitment on the issues of security and defence not to gain on consensus, fruit of emotionalism, but because aware that, in case of necessity, a security and defence apparatus must already be equipped in terms of technology, investment and personnel training. This is not done at the last moment or after a tragedy. National cohesion means now budgeting the billions necessary for security and defence, knowing that nothing is more important, in the pact that binds a state to its people, than the lives of its citizens. How many times have we said to ourselves in the midst of the crisis that the security and defence apparatus should also have made sacrifices? Do we now want to understand that other equipment must also make sacrifices because there is to guarantee the security, defence and life of Italian citizens? The opposition must not negotiate these conditions and the majority must not make any calculations in this respect. You just have to do it right away and imagine it's a long-term commitment. The Islamist ideology, which permeates this season of terror, will not be exhausted shortly and we must prepare to fight it with every weapon. But while the weapons of dialogue and reason can easily be drawn - yet it costs the removal of social and cultural causes - the weapons that allow a military victory are not found in the supermarket and a democratic state that exercises in solitude the monopoly of force simply must be found prepared if necessary. The government would do well to reverberate in the law of stability this awareness that is, without frills, nothing but love for the Homeland. The opposition will do well to express at every level the willingness to face together with the Government. Without rhetoric, Italy and Europe will thus be able to take advantage of the motto of the city of Paris: fluctuat nec mergitur (vacilla ma non sank). It falters but it does not sink Europe if we think of it as an untenable junction of our hope; it falters but does not sink Italy, which today needs our cohesion (in a key not rhetorical but operational) to withstand the impact of a challenge that I also hope the Government will not underestimate. [[Applause from the LAGs (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI) and LN-Aut]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u18	Mr President, I speak very quickly. The Group of the North League, like the whole movement, agrees with the words of the Pope, who said a few days ago that we are at war and that this is the third world war. Like it or not, the Holy Father's statement on this situation is before everyone's eyes and has been welcomed and shared by most world leaders. Mr President, we are at war, but not in the classic war fought by our grandparents between 1915 and 1918, which we are commemorating this year on the occasion of the centenary of the beginning of World War I. We are in a totally different war, fighting on two fronts. A front is the classic one, that is at the house of the gentlemen who attacked us a few days ago. Someone - I am thinking of Putin's Russia and France - has already begun to use their own planes and make it clear which side they are on. But above all - and this is the thing that perhaps leaves most of us unscathed at the moment - the other front of this non-traditional war is being fought in our home, because the Islamic State has decided to train and send its soldiers to our homes, squares and streets so that these exalted people (let's call them as you want: some say they are crazy, but in my opinion they are not, they are only people who have a precise goal) carry out guerrilla and war actions to create terror among our peoples. Mr President, the big problem - we cannot hide behind the facts - is that when these people show up in front of the predestined victim and scream at her face, "Allah is great" (no other words scream), they use a religion, an extremism for which we are faced with a situation that at this moment must make each of us meditate. Islamic extremism must be fought both with arms and with intelligence, but above all through that part - if it exists - of moderate Islam which must at this moment - evidence: it must - stand on the right side. It is in fact too easy to say that in TV talk shows and to send someone to say something very vague. What we want is for Islam and the Islamic community at this moment present on our territory to condemn these attacks once and for all. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Mr President, the answer must be tough, showing the muscles and not making the mistake that was made at the time with Libya: we must have a project on what the future will be after the defeat of the Islamic State. I am sorry to have to contradict an honourable Member of the House of Deputies, perhaps more famous - indeed, certainly more famous - than we do, but this is not the case with the Islamic State. With ISIS we are not talking and we are not talking: with ISIS we are fighting, because the only word of ISIS is violence and violence, unfortunately, we must respond in the same way. The United States and Russia are discussing this, and they have finally come back to talk about it (this is also a very important fact). The very Russia that we, Minister, have tried to penalise with the embargo, putting us in an ambiguous situation: on the one hand, we were going after the interests of one part of Europe and on the other we had President Renzi, who, on the other hand, was winking at Putin. But now we have to decide between one option and the other: we need a bit of clarity towards the interlocutors, at international level, otherwise we cannot complain then because Italy is always marginalized and nobody considers us, when important decisions are taken at international level. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Call the president back.]] Mr President, as the Minister has also said, there is a need for an exchange of information between the secret services of the various European States: we must not be jealous of our information. Let's spread them and share them with others, but with a project. We cannot, Mr President, lower our guard against those who come to our territory. We have been saying this for too many months and for too many months they are telling us that the League is racist and everything we are told: then we go to find the passports of the fake refugees next to the bombers. Above all, we cannot lower our guard against those who reside in our countries. Hollande has launched the challenge: the problem is that we have not been able to pick it up, until today. He has launched an important challenge, he has brought Parliament together, he has made some important proposals. We have phase 2, which has not yet been understood exactly what it is. For once we trust Minister Alfano and hope that at least he knows what he's talking about. The problem is that of this phase 2 we have already spoken after the attack on the editorial staff of Charlie Hebdo. I therefore ask a question that did not come to mind Gian Marco Centinario, but to the man of the street, who stops me and tells me: Excuse me, Senator: after Charlie Hebdo we talked about phase 2, now we talk about phase 2. Meanwhile, between the attack on Charlie Hebdo's editorial staff and today, are we back to phase 1? I hope not and I hope that the guard has not been lowered in these months that divide the two tragedies, because that means that, in the meantime, little and nothing has been done. So there are two cases: either in the meantime little or nothing has been done for our safety or, if not, the stage 2 bales are mainly for the newspapers. [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, the other Members have also made a speech a little longer than the set time. Speaking of phase 2, I liked an interview with a policeman, broadcast by the LA7 television station, who was asked what had seen more than in the past. The answer was: "Advertising progress" If law enforcement says so, we believe it. This means, dear Minister, that, as usual, we are faced with the usual announcements of this Government. The problem, Mr President, is how do we prevent terrorists, given that everyone knows, at European and global level, that terrorists are talking through the network, when we have been closing the postal police offices on Italian territory for a year? How can we do that when, since last year, the intention has been declared to close the post police offices? Who's doing the prevention, Mr. President? PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite you to conclude, Senator Centinario. We also decide to bring the military to the territory and that's fine. Meanwhile, this Government decides to close the last operational barracks in the City of Milan, the barracks of the Voloire, which is moved from Milan to Vercelli. We move the military from Milan to Vercelli and we go and tell people the dance that we bring the military to the territory [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We had proposals, Mr President, which I shall leave to the record, because we want to show Mr Alfano that we have made proposals at this time. There was talk of national unity: I and President Fredriga took part last Saturday in the famous meeting convened by the President of the Council, in which they promised us that we would talk about the problem and the emergency. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that President Renzi has spoken for twenty minutes, perhaps for half an hour, to the Ministers present has not even been given the floor and we have found ourselves having lost a day, wasting time. So, Mr President, on our part there is the will; the idea of making proposals is there and there has always been, today more than ever. What puzzles us is the fact that, while calling for national unity, on the one hand, Minister Alfano allows himself to go on television to insult the leader of a political party. Mr Alfano, instead of going on television, you work, which is perhaps better. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u19	Senator Amoruso is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u20	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, I wish to express our condolences and our closeness to the families of the victims of the French people, all because of the barbaric massacre on 13 November. A special thought I address to the family of the student Valeria Solesin, a young promise for our country, guilty only of studying in France and loving music. That smile of hers will remain in our hearts forever. The outrage and horror can only be absolute for a gesture that expresses the most horrible cruelty and total contempt for human life, as well as total and strong condemnation for acts of terrorism carried out in the name of religion or - it would be better to say - in the name of a religious fanaticism that sees in the other an enemy to be shot down without pity. Colleagues, the attacks that took place on that tragic night, the methods of execution of these heinous crimes clearly demonstrate how madness, extremism, pure hatred and intolerance are capable of generating horrors and unworthy brutality of human beings. These attacks have wounded France, but even more have affected the western world, its way of life. He was killed who, on that tragic night, committed no other crime than to go out to meet friends, eat something together, go see a game at the stadium or listen to a concert. We are faced with inalienable acts which, as Pope Francis said at the Angelus last Sunday, constitute an inalienable affront to human dignity. We can only ask ourselves how man's heart can devise and carry out such horrible events; using God's name to justify this violence is a blasphemy. These attacks have affected democracy and the conquests of freedom of which Europe has always been an expression. For this reason, I believe that the facts of Paris should not be labelled as events that have occurred only in a particular state, but it is as if, through France, the attackers have struck every other democratic state, every institution of ours. The answer to this vile and barbaric act cannot but be firm, united, choral, European, world-wide. In these days we listen, unfortunately, many do not from those who may have heavy responsibilities for what is happening. To open the way to fundamentalist movements, to claim supposed springs that instead have become dark winters, to remain inattentive in the face of massacres and persecutions is certainly not the way to follow, as the American press also emphasizes these days. Politics and nations have a duty on these occasions to overcome all divisions in order to find themselves united against terrorism and its atrocious nefariousness. We have a duty as representatives of the institutions to do what we can to prevent such events from happening again. This war - because, as President Hollande said, it is about war - must not only be fought in traditional forms, but also through the strengthening and strengthening of the role of intelligence, both internal and international. Those who finance, who supply weapons are more dangerous enemies than the terrorists themselves. We must, therefore, have the mental lucidity to note that Friday in Paris this was a gesture that represents much more than an attack, but that it wants to be an act of threat against the whole of humanity. We must be aware that what we have done so far has not been enough. We must not generalize the blame, but we must not in any way justify these vile and ignoble acts. We must react and we must do so for the generations who are experiencing these facts and for future generations, because we cannot, we must not, we do not want to give up our democratic achievements of freedom. We must give future generations a world in which tolerance and respect between men and religions allow true peaceful coexistence. Dear Minister, nothing can mitigate what has happened, but the terrorists know that they have not frightened us, but made us even stronger and more determined to achieve this aim. [[Applause from the AL-A Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u21	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u22	Mr President, on behalf of the Autonomous Group, the Italian Socialist Party and the Italian Socialist Party, Mr MAIE, I express the sharing of communications between the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Gentiloni and the Minister for the Interior, Mr Alfano. The tragic events of these days impose execration, mourning for the French people and for the victims of all nationalities. Colleagues, members of the Government, faced with these serious and repeated facts, however, waiting for physiological solutions at the lowest cost for national and particular interests and selfishness is a serious mistake. Minister Alfano, the government does not listen to the daily TV chatter of certain political parties: go ahead according to the indicated line. Keeping your tones low doesn't mean keeping your attention low. You can no longer play ahead because delays are not ours, but others, there are and are before everyone's eyes. You don't have to show off your muscles, but you have to keep them toned. I mean, you need an iron fist in a velvet glove. Strict control activities at stations, airports, stadiums and other sensitive objectives are needed; the professional quality of all our operators needs to be improved by enhancing and making available resources and by fully deploying the potential of intelligence activity. I repeat: make the necessary resources available to the security and defence sector. We do not lower the level of guarantees, but the strict application of the rules is high. We have adequate means of prevention and repression: let us be convinced of them. Italy can recommend, say and do more than it appears. We must no longer make the mistakes of the past, certainly not our mistakes, lords of the government, but the mistakes of our allies. There can be no justifications or moral, political, economic, tactical and strategic tolerances with respect to States and Governments that exploit the evil plan of terrorism to bend dictatorships or to make them converge towards their own particular interests. The experiences of the failed Arab Springs also require a reflection that must be combined with the exceptional fact that in Tunisia, however, this growth of democracy continues, but we must be aware of the time needed for the plan of democracy to actually grow. Let us not confuse Islam with terrorism, but the Islamic world must take a firm and explicit position: until this happens, there will be a risk of misunderstandings, prejudices, tolerances and unacceptable neutrality. The fight against red terrorism in Italy was also won because, after moments of uncertainty in the popular masses targeted by the political message of the Red Brigades, they understood clearly on which side to stand. We need a choral response from the United States and the United Europe, not from France, Italy and Great Britain, not from Germany and France, but from a united Europe and also from Russia and China, also involving the States of the areas affected by these tragic events. More clarity of objectives is needed for the post. It has not been done in these years. It is necessary to have political realism and understanding of the time needed for the processes of building democracy. It is urgent to reflect on the past of the West, gentlemen of the Government, colleagues. The instrumental use of the worst to beat, limit and bend opponents of the moment is a poison that when in circulation strikes with uncontrollable effects. This happened in Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria, Libya and many other countries. More Europe, more solidarity, more generosity. It is necessary to allow the world to grow as a whole and not just for the strongest part. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Albano]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u23	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u24	Mr President, today more than ever I would like to use the words of responsibility here, because I think that in the face of facts, which the Ministers have also told us, so dramatic and shocking there must be no room for exploitation of any kind, and there must be no jackaling, good only to benefit from the concerns of an inevitably frightened public opinion. Of course, I would like to begin with the condolences and closeness of my Group and my party to the families of the victims and, in particular, of our compatriot Valeria Solesin: it has been said, a young woman, a young student, a volunteer engaged in the very places of suffering that - I think the mother is right - will miss very much not only her family, but our whole country. Today we mourn the victims of the attacks in Paris, as a few days ago the families of the hundreds of Russians shot in a plane and, in another part of the world, the Lebanese hit by an attack in a supermarket in the southern neighborhoods of Beirut. It would be enough to remember here, together with all the others, unfortunately precisely those dead, Islamic citizens, to clear the field from a lie that has no right to citizenship, namely the intolerable equivalence between terrorism and Islam, which is exactly what Daesh wants to make believe. Precisely because the tragedy in Paris strikes us with the same intensity that it would have had if it had happened in our country, I think we have a duty to do more against Daesh, much more than we have done to date. And we also have a duty to speak a language that at the same time we believe must be of responsibility but also of truth. Ministers - I say this in particular, of course, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because of his specific competence - there has been an ambiguity about the fight against terrorism which now emerges increasingly clearly; a contrast, even that of the international coalition, unfortunately often more of a facade than a concrete one, since too many of the protagonists of that coalition in fact continued to feed the caliphate by supporting it, financing it. I believe that we must understand ourselves on this very point: what it means to do more and what is the most effective way to fight the caliphate. We believe that doing more means first of all closing financial transactions, interrupting the flows of money relating primarily to the oil market (as has been mentioned), to that of works of art, to that of weapons. Precisely on weapons we believe that this thing means blocking those traffics even with those monarchies that have fueled the monster and that must instead be recalled from the entire free world to their decisive responsibilities. Disarming the Middle East is once again recognizing that those who fight Daesh on the ground, therefore certainly the peshmerga, but also the Kurds of the PKK are a fundamental interlocutor and not an enemy, as instead has continued and continues to make a country like Turkey that, even in the hours immediately following the attacks in Paris, has continued to bomb Kurdish posts and not those of ISIS. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators Lepri and Susta]] We must no longer have any hesitation in saying that these dramatic ambiguities are no longer acceptable. I consider these measures, these elements of clarity - and here it really is, to the end, the responsibility of all of us - much more effective than any military intervention, which will obviously not be able to resolve the problem, particularly if it lacks that strategic breath that has been missing for too many years and whose absence has been, at least in the last two decades, one of the reasons for the many failures that have produced the missions of war. Strategic breath means - as was also authoritatively recalled in a national newspaper this morning - defining the field of friends and enemies, promoting dialogue between Russia, the United States and Europe, obviously without forgetting the fundamental interlocution, for example, with that Shiite world, also under the attack of Daesh, starting from Iran, an essential element to help build that political transition in Syria, which serves not only to overcome the dictatorship of Assad, but also to prevent a vacuum being determined with the realistic possibility, at that point, of the tripartition of that country and the birth of a terrorist state. Finally - and here I am mainly addressing the Minister of the Interior - one last question, which concerns that decisive and fundamental work, from our point of view, of intelligence and prevention. I believe that, so far, good work has been done by the police and investigation forces in Italy, which obviously needs to be stepped up. I also believe that there is a need to improve cooperation with the police forces in other European countries, which is once again crucial for combating terrorism. Doing this means identifying, selecting, speaking, of course, with non-fundamentalist communities, with the vast majority of the Muslim world and certainly not shooting in the pile, as it would like, in fact, an easy propaganda, through those simple equivalences that obviously only play the game of the caliphate. This must be done and done, Ministers, President, also and above all without changing our democracy. I believe and we believe that not bowing to terrorism means above all two things: not bowing to their horror and therefore seeking the most effective way to destroy it forever; but also not changing ourselves, not giving up not only our habits - of course - our way of life, our values, but above all our democracy. We won't become like them, because that's exactly what they want. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators Mussini and Repetti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u25	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u26	Mr President, I believe that the words of the rite are no longer enough and that this debate - as we have already heard from the introductions of our Ministers - must take on an outline of truth. But allow me, before I say anything else, to express all my deep admiration for Valeria Solesin's parents as an Italian, father and parliamentarians. [[Applause]] Because they have said beautiful things, which are worth more than many of our parliamentary debates, depicting their daughter's commitment as the exemplary commitment of an Italian citizen. I believe that, if our state is great and if our country can recover its best energies in the most difficult moments, it is for people like Valeria. I always have in my heart and mind, they will never abandon me, the images of the crowd of Italians, on an evening of rain, when the bodies of our fallen of Nassiriya, in parade from Ciampino in the center of Rome, showed that in the truly difficult moments the great peoples can emerge for their capacity of moral strength. This was also the lesson of France in these hours. I have sincerely found the reaction of the President of the Republic and the political forces very decent: I must say that even in that country, in such a difficult situation, it has been possible to show the superiority of democracy and civilization, which we, with all our imperfections, represent. We have heard two impeccable reports for me; I say this on behalf of the People's Area Group. It is said that it is time to show your muscles, raise your voice, and make robotic purposes. I'm sorry if I'm a traditionalist, maybe a bit old fashioned, but I think it's the moment of seriousness and reasonableness, because the roboating intentions most of the time clash with common sense and the dutyful and perhaps silent action that a man of state must carry on. The Minister for Foreign Affairs told us that we are doing so much and that we must be prepared to do more. We're with him. I would like to say something very quietly, which I have said all these months in Parliament's debates. The problem is above all to do better and to make it clear to us, because the great coalition that fought against ISIS has never had a clear strategy. In this coalition there were many, perhaps for the honour of signing, but each one pursued his own purpose and particular agenda: those who looked at the Kurds, those who looked at the Shiites, those who looked at the risk of Iran consolidating a cross-border rule from the Mediterranean to the Persian Gulf, those who looked at something else; but each one looked at one of its objectives. As Obama said, and as I fully agree, the problem is not to send troops to the ground. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said something very right first (I have marked it and I repeat it): we do not repeat the mistakes of the past, of troops we have already sent many and the result was that, when they left, in those countries our condition and the condition of those countries has worsened compared to the moment before sending the troops. The problem is not to send troops; the problem is to have the will to cut off the traffic that a caliphate installed territorially has created with the complicity of several of those countries that nominally were part of the coalition anti ISIS. Archaeological finds and oil that is sold below cost in neighbouring countries are transported with trucks and certainly not, in the case of oil, with pipelines. And trucks can't get to Britain, Russia or the United States, but they go to neighbouring countries. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]] The real point, then, is not so much to ask for more roboating commitments from the coalition, but to do serious things, which so far have not been done seriously. Let me add one more thing about foreign policy. Russia is the keystone: Russia is the only one that can guarantee Assad's exit strategy, which is indispensable. But, as our government has said from the start, we cannot at the same time fight ISIS and Assad; we simply have to give a list of priorities. And our priority, as the facts show, is to fight ISIS. Russia is crucial to securing Assad's exit strategy at a later stage. But the caliphate would not be capable of facts like those seen in Paris, if there were not something different, which unfortunately - I say this for France, because unfortunately it is so - concerns another problem. We have a territorially installed caliphate that controls water, oil and so on; plus we have messengers of death who are full citizens of these caliphates and who are in our cities and not by chance hit in France with more force, because there is that humus of the banlieues that we have seen in recent years with great realism. We must therefore equip ourselves to fight a war against foreign fighters and against a part of misfitted youth that, not by chance, often draws food even in places of worship not to approach the faith, to which we must have a deep respect. Very rightly, in fact, Minister Alfano spoke of distinguishing who prays and who shoots. We are that society and that civilization that welcomes the warning of John Paul II to Parliament: no war in the name of God, whatever the God, or that of the Muslims, prayed by them in the mosques, or ours. We want to give those children the opportunity to pray, but to proceed to a work of grubbing up in the mosques that turn surreptitiously into places of incitement to hatred and violence, because there can be no indulgence there. However, I would like to conclude my speech with a remark that I certainly do not make because my parliamentary group belongs to the Minister of the Interior, but because I would like us all to try to maintain the sense of direction. I am truly sorry for the inconsulted attacks that have come in these days, which have no motivation other than a political polemic preliminary. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC.]] I have opposed the Prodi Government because I was in the center-right and I have been in opposition for so many years in Parliament, but I have never confused a political opposition, which can also be tough, and the attack on a person who, at the time he sits in the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is necessarily for institutional role third, because when he comes here he represents the police forces that defend us all, without making distinctions between the right and the left or the majority and the opposition. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC.]] I would therefore like to renew them, dear Minister, full solidarity, first of all because you have done your work well, because the Forces of Order in Italy have done it well and because we know that no one can predict the future, but we are entrusted in the right hands. [[Applause from Senators Bondi and Repetti.]] After that, those who believe that with a permanent jackal you can feed from the electoral point of view, perhaps you will be right, because unfortunately this happens too, but at certain times you need above all to be serious people, this is necessary for the Italians. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups, as well as the Bondi and Repetti senators. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u27	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students of the Department of Law of the University of Messina who attend our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the attack that was brought to the heart of our Europe on Friday, at the heart of Paris, has shaken all of us, shaken this country, left our citizens terrified and horrified, who felt close to our French brothers, to those who have lost comrades, children, brothers and sisters. The horror has arrived in our homes, it has crept into our country, into our lives, through the images coming from France. The citizens of this country have begun to wonder what was happening and have demanded, and claim, that they have answers. And they want them from here, from us. Minister Alfano, Minister Gentiloni, the philosopher Habermas said that the uncertainty of danger belongs to the essence of terrorism. Unfortunately, we are in this uncertainty. In particular, the 5 Star Movement is concerned about what happens and believes that what happened in neighbouring France is giving a warning, which we must seize. There are crucial moments in the life of a country and in the history of a nation, which are decisive and require important, serious and responsible choices. Because without seriousness and responsibility there can be no credibility. And credibility, Minister Gentiloni, is a valuable commodity at international level and can make Italy an important interlocutor at this time. But to be credible, we also need to be consistent. We must have the courage to look carefully at the two aspects of the affair. There is an international aspect, which does not depend on our country but on which we can assert our voice, to say what has already been said from several parts and which we share: ISIS, the caliphate, must be fought hungry, limiting its operational capabilities. Because it is not possible that, under the eyes of the main countries, of the most important industrialized countries of this world, an oil trade of this magnitude will take place without anyone moving a finger. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] We must demand that the international community take care of the problems that some members of the international community have created. Easy trigger powers that have destabilised entire nations: Libya, Syria, regional powers and even world powers. We must demand this internationally. However, we cannot fail to see that there is also a local aspect, which concerns us. Mr. Minister for the Interior, I have to agree with you on that. There can't be a country at zero risk. You are right, but, of course, we cannot make the lives of terrorists easier. We need to look at what happened. These were not loose dogs, but a group of maybe 20 people with weapons of war, explosives, vehicles, men. And all this material didn't bring it with the dinghy, but they found it here in our countries. If a desperate person can find a weapon in the local delinquency market, it is certain that arming such a well-organized group with weapons requires contact and we know very well with whom: with whom he carries out these international trafficking. This is organised crime trafficking in arms, Minister. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Because it's war weapons that were used. Organizing about twenty people, many machines, the transport of weapons of war and explosives requires bases and dens and requires money, Minister. Here is the problem of the criminal network of money launderers in Europe, in our countries and in our cities. We have to deal with this problem here, Minister, because it is true that the risk cannot be zero but, of course, if I find a simple gun instead of ten AK-47 the damage I can cause will be an important damage but it will be limited. We must not forget that these bombers came from the banlieue, as has been mentioned, that is, from the degraded neighborhoods of France and Belgium: they are children of despair and crisis. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The inclusive policies that we fight for, including citizenship income, if they can lower the level of despair in our suburbs, can help in the war against these criminals. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Minister, we feared that one of the people they were looking for had come to Italy and, not by chance, they were looking for him in the Torinese, where there are large neighborhoods with despair and unemployment, with people who do not know how to arrive at the end of the month. We have to say this to you at this time, Minister, the previous budget provided for 491 million cuts in the security forces; it is planned. Mr Alfano, we consider this fact the past, and we responsibly say: what happened in France, must serve us as a lesson, must lead us to change. We need to invest in law enforcement, intelligence because when an attack is already under preparation it is too late. We have to get there first. Everything that concerns these issues will find the 5 Star Movement in the front line to support those who want to give men and means to the Forces of Order and resources to reduce the discomfort of all the inhabitants of this country. That's how you fight the terror they want to instill in our cities. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I'd like to remember a book from many years ago. The book was entitled "More powerful than weapons" and told the stories of eight greats of the twentieth century, from Gandhi to Schweitzer, who fought the great evils of the twentieth century and did so with heroism, but with love. We must work to ensure that peace is brought to the Middle East, our cities and our suburbs. Minister, we work for peace and not for war. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u30	He is enlisted to speak Senator Romani Paolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u31	Mr President, I have listened to and also read Mr Gentiloni's speech and I am addressing him in the first instance. Minister, I am pleased that you have re-evaluated the role and the Russian intervention in the Syrian scenario, but I have the impression that the node behind the Syrian problem has not been sufficiently deepened. The node is that of the Sunni community. While in Iraq the Sunni community tends to be tribal and are those famous tribal chiefs, to whom General Petraeus evoked for them the awakening, the surge, which allowed the Americans to leave a wrong war, as was that of Iraq, the Syrian Sunni community sought refuge in that fifth of Syria that is today under the authority of the government of Assad this says a lot about the fundamental difference between the Syrian theater and the Iraqi one: there the officers of Saddam Hussein and the Sunni tribes chiefs are with ISIS and fight with the ISIS against the Shiite Government of Baghdad and the displeasure of the Shiite militias and the Maliki Government; in Syria the Sunni community found refuge in Latakia, in Tarsus, in the part governed by the Government of Assad. Therefore, the Russian Government has rightly intervened to defend that line of the front: if there had been a break in that line of the front, we would have found ourselves between 10 and 15 million Syrians seeking escape from the criminal gangs of ISIS terrorists. The Italian Government must therefore decide what is the priority. Is the transition of the Assad Government more important (with what it can achieve in terms of the protection of the Syrian territory and the community not only Alawita, but also Sunni), or is it more important to beat Daesh on the ground, as you rightly say, Minister, often says that it should be called (as many know, in fact, the term "daesh" in Arabic also has a negative and derogative connotation)? It seems that the Italian Government does not want to make this choice even if, Minister, you have to do it today because it is a choice that some have already made. Today we are faced with an appeal from President Hollande, who referred to Article 42 (7) of the Treaty of the European Union. I would like to read this provision: If a Member State suffers armed aggression on its territory, the other Member States shall be obliged to assist and assist it by all means in their possession, in accordance with Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations. I wouldn't want Henry Kissinger's old line to be back in style again on this occasion: Who should I call if I want to talk to Europe? I hope that does not happen. Yesterday a strong request came from the entire National Assembly and the whole French Senate; 900 Members of Parliament gathered in Versailles and only two of them did not stand up to applaud Hollande's strong speech (I do not want to mention the party to which they belong). If we want to give an answer, we must talk about the means we must and we want to make available: it is not only a matter of means, it is also a question of means. I wouldn't want you to go back to the chorus of the last few weeks, when someone asked: what do you want me to change if four Italian tornadoes bomb ISIS stations or not? It is a problem of taking responsibility and the logic of the chorus I have mentioned prevents Europe from growing in its capacity to take collective responsibility. The attack on Paris was an attack on the whole of Europe. If the attitude of indifference, words and participation in international conferences continues without direct assumption of responsibility, we can be sure that the European mountain will, once again, give birth to the usual mouse. We must therefore demonstrate, as a country and community of citizens, how concrete our willingness to take risks together for the collective security of our country and of the whole of Europe is. It will be true that, as the President of the Council, Renzi, says, we need a reaction of head and heart, but not of belly. However, in view of Italy's historical reputation for reliability in difficult times (perhaps in part for many years of participation in international missions, where - I must say - the intensity of the fight has never been very high), it is necessary to avoid today, Ministers, to strengthen the feeling that Italy is always ready to advance distinguished and exceptions when the unity of European action also implies tough, difficult and unpopular decisions. Mr President of the Council, Minister for the Interior, Minister for Foreign Affairs, if we do not want to waste all the work we have done so far, we do not offer our country the usual image of a truly reliable partner. The international reputation is built on the basis not of the number of quotations at international conferences, but of the responsibilities, even heavy ones, that a country and a community of citizens like ours are able to take seriously. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senators Sangalli and Zanda]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u32	Senator Sangalli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u33	Mr President, Ministers, fellow senators, in the face of the Paris massacre, we can only express, first of all, a sense of deep sorrow and mourning for the victims and all our solidarity for a brother country and a city which, in the experience of each of us, represents a symbol of coexistence and European values. These values are those of freedom, which is expressed in its various forms, democracy, justice and social inclusion; they are the values of Europe, on which Europe itself has been founded. Allow me to make a special thought - and it was right for President Casini to express it, of which I shared the whole intervention - for Valeria Solesin's family, for the sobriety with which she faced this unbreakable pain, which we all feel united. I remember the photo, circulated these days in the media, that portrays this young girl and that testifies to the expression, the smile and the story of a girl engaged and cultured, scholarly and supportive, what in the depths of each of us represents the future face of Europe: the face of commitment, culture, the capacity for relationship, respecting every difference. That smile and that serene face, which the media have sent back to our country, together with those of dozens of young people, victims of the same terrorism, are also a warning for all of us to remain united, to think before acting and to speak, to find the way to overcome and beat the most senseless human nature can sometimes produce. I am thinking of the victims of Paris, but also those of Beirut, the Russian plane in Sinai, Tunis, Garissa and the many attacks that have taken place since 11 September 2001, those to whom we owe a multiple cultural, cooperative, political and even military commitment. As the President of the Republic recalled, we need intransigence, decision and firmness against an enemy, that of violence, obscurantism, fundamentalism, a totalitarian idea of Islamism, which is being affirmed not only on the ground of Iraq, Syria and Libya, but which has chosen acts of barbarity of great evocative force also on our continent. The different step of this terrorism lies in the great ability to grasp, in the acts it carries out, the weak point of the feeling of a country and of a people. In Tunisia, which after one of the few real Arab Springs has built its own path of democracy, the most important factor of that economy is hit, namely tourism. Similarly, it has been done in Egypt and Algeria, and it is also done twice in the homeland of the European Enlightenment and Culture, precisely in a centre which is the great hub of tourist and cultural attraction in the world. From us, Italy and Europe, a great deal of unity is needed between the political forces and I must acknowledge the two Ministers who have spoken that they have made this call for unity. I must say, with sincerity and honesty, that I acknowledge, on behalf of myself and my party, the excellent work they are doing, in a situation in which they have been able to understand that they are important actors and also to prevent criminal and terrorist acts, such as those that have occurred in other countries. It is not said that this will happen forever: none of us can predict the future, as has been said, but it is true that our police forces, our law enforcement forces, our army and our intelligence deserve here, from the Italian Parliament, recognition for the quality of their work. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senators Bencini, Bondi, Casini and Repetto]] for the abnegation that they put in place and for the strength and the operational ability that they have been able to put in field, also regarding the intelligences of many countries, that we normally judge more evolved than ours. The unity of our country's politics and culture is an element of strength. It gives force to the alliance established in September 2014, with UN Resolution 2178. This coalition, in which we have committed ourselves, includes Sunni Arab countries in the region and many European countries, which since 2014 have already intervened both in Syria and Iraq, to counter Daesh and ISIS. To defeat this totalitarian Islamic fanatic needs a great alliance inside and outside the borders of Europe. What has been done so far is a lot, but it is not enough; now we ask the coalition, starting from the United States and Russia to the members of the United Nations Security Council, to have more political coordination; to be more united in the solution of the Syrian transition, that brings that country out of the civil war, that there has caused 250,000 victims, and that contrasts in the whole field, without ambiguity, with cultural force and cooperation, leading to a sharp cut, the financing and ill-kept forms of acquiescence, when not of support, that some countries put in place with a certain ambiguity of behavior. Stop hiding the forces acting under the black flag of ISIS. We must ensure that the international community, not just part of it, frees those territories and peoples from a conflict that is primarily within Islam; this is what we need to know: it is above all an internal conflict in Islam. We Europe, we Italy, we Western world, have made very serious mistakes in the past. If we are in those territories faced with a catastrophe, this is also the result of unholy choices made at the end of the last century and at the beginning of this century, when it was decided to export democracy at the tip of the bayonets; when conflicts were opened, never concluded, with the idea of freeing the field from characters who became uncomfortable, but without ideas on viable alternatives, on the real dislocation of forces in the field, on the cultural roots of different ethnic groups, on religious and tribal factions, on economic interests and on international trafficking. Too often it has been done in the wake of emotion and unselfish pressure from some to destabilize those regions and the relationship between those peoples, the different religions and the different ethnic groups. This division has been stimulated by thinking that it can keep the Middle East and those areas in a condition of less offensive than part of the West and other scenarios of politics and international politics. Fronting the threat means combating terrorism with the aim of destroying its ability to control the territory and eradicate its attractiveness. In 2014, President Obama said that terrorism can only be defeated by a sustainable and global approach, involving the active participation and collaboration of all states. I think he was right in recent days when Romano Prodi stressed that terrorism should be warned as the number one danger of all powers, and since the use of force bumps against the diversity of interests of these same countries, it serves politics. France was hit because France was perhaps alone in the European initiative, because a complete European initiative was lacking, because so far there has not been a military policy, as well as a European foreign policy. There can be no single Italian, French or German policy; we need coordinated measures in stages of this kind. We must work, as we did in Vienna, in the direction of coordinated, European and multilateral measures to combat terrorism, but at the same time they can lead to acceptable solutions in areas of the planet in which contradictions are strong and highly innovative are the solutions that have been found. ISIS has financial resources, it sells oil, at prices lower than those of others; to this are added the abductions, the drug trafficking and, in the Libyan case, also the trafficking of people. It is a complex problem and we need a political solution, but it is not easy to agree with everyone. This political solution, however, starts with the agreement between the United States and Russia. The Ukrainian question does not help, but this agreement is the only way we have to address the Syrian issue, and then the Libyan issue, in the appropriate way to address a topic of this nature. The Vienna Summit seems to be heading in the right direction and we would like to see the exit, as you, Mr Gentiloni, said, of the dictator Assad. Similarly, we must look carefully at the evolution of the situation in Libya, where the militias of Tripoli and Tobruk in these hours are fighting side by side against the caliphate and it is good news in a situation of acute crisis such as the Libyan one. Diplomacy can help to win even militarily, without massacres of innocents, and to win militarily is obviously a necessary goal, but it does not mean to bomb immediately nor to put boots on Syrian soil. We must learn to live together with the utmost alertness, but also with a great deal of political intelligence. ISIS terrorism is trying to globalise a conflict that is now proving its difficulties on the ground. ISIS in the field is more in difficulty than one or two months ago. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] His instrument is terror and he wants to evoke in each of us a terrified reaction that no longer respects our essence, our values, our own dignity. Well, I think that this is the moment when a country with long history and democracy acquired as ours can give impetus to a common European policy in Europe, and that in Italy too we can avoid using international policy for the use of internal policy. When international politics becomes an instrument of internal politics, dramatic problems happen. Let's not get caught up in excessive alarmism. We manage things with the necessary tranquility and serenity and with the necessary rigour of which we have been able. Let us not stop thinking and begin to appreciate those who, having nothing to say, as Oscar Wilde said, sometimes keep quiet. It's something that would be really useful at a time like this. I thank you for what is being done, because what is being done is a sign of an intelligence that cannot have the capacity to predict the future, but that can have at least the ability to understand the intellectual processes that are before us in the future. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u34	I declare closed the discussion on the information of the Government. On behalf of the House, I would like to thank the ministers, Mr Gentiloni and Mr Alfano, for their prompt availability. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u35	The Conference of Leaders took note of the President of the 5th Commission's request to continue the examination of the financial documents tomorrow. The debate will therefore begin at 9.30 a.m. on Thursday 19 November. Amendments will have to be tabled no later than 1 p.m. on Thursday. In order to conclude the examination of the financial documents by Friday 20 as planned (saturday morning if necessary), the discussions were again divided between the groups. The timetable provides for unique meetings, giving the Presidency the power to arrange suspensions and the setting of closing hours at night. Next week's timetable provides for the examination of the decree-law on economic and social matters, approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and the ratifications of international agreements defined by the Foreign Affairs Committee. On Thursday afternoon, 26 November, the question time will be held with the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy. Finally, Parliament's joint meeting, which was held tomorrow at 1 p.m., will take place on Wednesday 25 November at 1 p.m. The honourable senators will vote first. Therefore, the single sitting on Wednesday 25 will be suspended at 12.30 p.m. and will resume at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u38	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, as we have already stated at the Conference of the Leaders, we do not agree on this timetable and we call for the inclusion of documents from the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, because we believe that it is important to decide the issues and not to allow them to be suspended for too long, because we believe that the image of this institution in the country is also relevant. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u41	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, at the Conference of Leaders we have already had the opportunity to reiterate the concept that, in view of the total availability of the opposition groups - including our own, of course - the work has been carried out in an absolutely virtuous manner, without any obstruction and without any waste of time, because we imagined that the Government could get answers. The rapporteurs, at first - I ask confirmation from the Parent Company, Senator Mandelli - had declared their willingness to interrogate even with opposition to a fundamental law of the State, namely the law of stability, and instead the result of these virtuous days of collaboration and availability by our Group and the opposition was equal to zero. The irony of the fate, but also of the parliamentary chronicles, is that we are having these discussions immediately after the discussion on the information of ministers Gentiloni and Alfano on the emergency security, which was exactly - by chance - one of the issues of the law of stability. Well, the answer we have received was to earn a day in the Commission, because perhaps that is how the majority is allowed to arrive with the rapporteur in this House, with zero responses in the area of health, the South and safety. We are therefore totally unavailable and do not agree on this calendar and we ask that the Senate for at least once be put in a position to participate effectively in a law of stability, receiving the answers we ask the Government. I would just like to give an example: in France, the état d'urgence lasts twelve days; at the end of the twelve days Hollande is forced to make a constitutional law to extend the état d'urgence by another three months, that is, the state of emergency. Well, can we not in a few days give a response on security and investment in the South of Italy? I find that this attitude of total unwillingness does not correspond to a virtuous attitude towards the opposition parties, as is also confirmed by the majority, have participated in the examination of the law of stability. So I come to the proposal to extend the Commission's time to examine the Stability Act until the middle of next week so that - let's see if the Government can - we can give those answers that we ask about investments and, above all, about security. We need to understand whether the emergency arising from the heinous attacks in Paris has a reflection on the law of stability, on the funds available to the security forces and on the funds made available to the defence forces of our country, in the name of that European collaboration that was evoked in the debate that we held a short time ago. It seems to me that this is the least that an opposition party, as serious and responsible as ours, can request on this occasion. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u44	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, first of all, I would like to stress the fact that, as we know, every year the law of stability is always very complex, everything can be said less than that it was also a work of collaboration and constructive, certainly not of obstruction, by the opposition and, in particular, by the representatives of our Group. Today, once again, we are faced with the fact - and I would like to stigmatize it - that, on the issues which we had raised, which were all left to the famous 300 proposed amendments (questions of great importance, such as those relating, in particular, to the Mezzogiorno or resources to the regions and to health), everything is being referred back to the House for discussion. I am very sorry, because, as far as the situation was concerned, even from the Government, it seems that a contrast has been created between resources for the Mezzogiorno and those for security. Let me say that, if we had dealt wisely with the issue of TASI, accepting, for example, our proposal (eliminating the 10% exemption of those who can most, but who represent almost 40% of the revenue), those resources would have been available today both to address - with ease, because there are enough - the issue of safety and to seriously address, at least in the first part, the issue of the Mezzogiorno. On the other hand, we are faced with the fact that, once again, we risk making the work - and therefore our constructive contribution - seem absolutely useless, because all the questions, in fact, are referred back to the House. There are still days and hours of work. I hope that the Government and the majority will have the conscience that, on the other hand, many issues, particularly the most urgent ones, can already be addressed here. It certainly cannot depend on us that another day of work has been requested by the Commission. Of course, we hope that the work will be done in the Commission and that there will therefore be an effective opportunity to arrive at Thursday with a definite job, addressing these problems. With regard to the timetable for the following week, Mr President, I agree that the documents of the Junta, which we had postponed several times, should be examined, but I would like to stress once again that, since we have been very late, we could begin to review the draft law on civil unions, which have been framed in this House. Taking advantage of the vote in the House on the bill of stability and the fact that we have two or three weeks of work, we could safely and finally resume work on this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u47	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, since the so-called master plan for the Mezzogiorno in the law of stability is not present in the debate on the bill of stability in the Budget Commission, the Government has first made the amendments concerning the Mezzogiorno to the various members of the oppositions, and then quickly go back to its steps, as there is a great indecision on whether and how to finance further interventions in the aid of the Mezzogiorno (contributive subsidies or tax credit); since the Government itself, in Article 24 of the same bill of stability, had no doubt in providing for a contribution, in the form of tax credit, to banking foundations (it has difficulties for the South, but not for the banking foundations to which it grants tax credit and projects to carry on together with the Ministry of Labour to combat educational poverty, which should be followed by the public school); since it is the only measure that will cancel out - and this says not only the 5 Star Movement, but also the National Institute of Statistics - poverty in all of Italy, North to South, and finally would make Italy run up to a year, as the rapporteur, as well as the House, and not so provided for the House, that the House, the Commission will not be brought into the 5 Movement; This is not an urgency of the Government, but an urgency of the Italian people, Italian citizens and the Italian economy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u50	PUPPATE (PD). Mr President, I would like to point out to the House as a whole that we have been pending for a few months now, precisely since the end of June, the debate on a very important motion on climate change. There had been a promise by the Heads of Groups concerned in the Environment Commission (almost everyone) to bring this motion to the fore in this House, which should be one of the documents presented to Minister Galletti in relation to COP 21 in Paris. Now, I understand everyone's reasons, the issue of the Stability Pact and so on, but I do not understand why there is still no time to be able to put this motion into the House's calendar in the last available week, which is next week. I therefore urge the Presidency to change the agenda for next week's proceedings. I believe that we cannot fail to examine this motion. So I would ask you to consider, Mr President, that from this point of view there is a request coming from many of us who are waiting for this debate. [[Applause from Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u53	Mr Bruni (CoR). Mr President, our Conservative and Reformist Group also proposes a change in the timetable, starting from the consideration that the work being done in the Budget Committee could lead to fruitful results and was not even far from the conclusion. I am referring in particular to the issues relating to the South; there were some proposed amendments which had to be finished only and the subject of some final assessment, so that they could then be included in the stability law. I am also referring to the question of the resources allocated to the police force, which has been mentioned several times in previous speeches on the terrorist alarm and the events in Paris. That is precisely why we are proposing a continuation of the work of the Budget Committee throughout the present week and a continuation of the examination of the draft stability law in the Chamber from next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u54	I shall put to the vote the proposal to include in the agenda the examination of the documents drawn up by Senator Giarrusso, drawn up by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to postpone the examination in the Chamber of the drafts of the law of stability and budget to the middle of next week or even beyond, made by Senators Romani Paolo and Bruni. It's not approved. CASTALDI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to include in the schedule of proceedings the examination of the measure on civil unions, made by Senator De Petris. It's not approved. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to include in the schedule of proceedings the examination of the bill on the income of citizenship, advanced by Senator Catalfo. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to include in the agenda the motions on climate change, tabled by Senator Puppato. PUPPATE (PD). Mr President, I shall withdraw you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u57	SCIBONA (M5S). Mr President, since my speech is long and there is a great deal of bailamme in this House, I ask that we be able to publish it in the Annex to the Reports of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. SCIBONA (M5S). I would like to bring to the attention of this House and the citizens who follow our work which, from 5 to 8 November, took place in Turin and in some places in the province a session of the Permanent Court of Peoples (TPP). It is a spontaneous court of opinion that draws inspiration from the Russell Court, is composed of experts of law, writers and other intellectuals, expresses moral assessments addressed to the public on issues of violation of human rights and the rights of peoples throughout the Planet. According to Article 2 of the Statute, its activity is to promote universal and effective respect for the fundamental rights of peoples, determining whether these rights are violated, examining the causes of such violations and denouncing their authors to world public opinion. Created from the International Foundation Lelio Basso for the Rights and Liberation of Peoples, founded in 1976 and following the Universal Declaration of the Rights of Peoples (also known as the Charter of Algiers), the TPP also refers to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Declaration of the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, non-binding international treaties and declarations. [[Brusio.]] AIROLA (M5S). You can't hear anything! SCIBONA (M5S). The session of interest had the title "Fundamental rights, participation of local communities and great works, from the TAV to the global reality" and, on November 8, 2015 at Almese, Municipality of the Valley of Susa, was given public reading of the device of the sentence issued, which I believe can give this House important ideas for reflection on what democracy is and how in this affair it has been largely trampled on by the State. It states that the Universal Declaration of Peoples' Rights adopted in Algiers in 1976 and in particular Articles 7 and 10 thereof; whereas all international treaties and other instruments for the protection of human rights, including economic, social, cultural and environmental rights, as well as civil and political rights; whereas, in particular, Article 21 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 10 December 1948 and Article 25 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights of 16 December 1966, recognising the right of all persons to participation in matters of public interest; I see the microphone keeps flashing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish it, Senator. SCIBONA (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. Directive 85/337/EEC of 27 June 1985 on the assessment of the impact of public and private projects on the environment, as amended by Directive 2011/92/EU on the assessment of the impact of public and private projects on the environment and Directive 2014/52/EU of 16 April 2014;... [[Senator Scibona's microphone flashes repeatedly.]] Mr President, you can interrupt me whenever you want, since I shall leave the text of the speech to the record.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u58	We had given you additional time. If you want, you can at least finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u59	SCIBONA (M5S). Thank you, Mr President, but I am interrupting here and handing over the rest of the speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u62	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, a year ago Diego Malterner, President of the Regional Council of Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol, was suddenly dying, already mayor for various consiliatures of the City of Fierozzo and President of the Community of Alta Valsugana and Bersntol. Today I take the floor in this House, as I did a year ago, while in its municipality an entire community meets to honour its memory, to dedicate to its name the hall of the City Council, in the presence of the highest political and institutional authorities of the Valley and the Region. Diego spent his whole life on his people and his land. An empty, rhetorical phrase may appear, but in your case it is not. A warm and generous person, he interpreted politics with that genuineness that is the virtue of the strong, of the good. His constant and priceless commitment was reciprocated by an unparalleled esteem and affection on the part of his people, in particular by the Mochen minority whose proud expression and strenuous supporter was proud. But Diego enjoyed equal consideration from the entire Trentino and Tyrolean political class. Balanced in his values as a convinced autonomy, he was esteemed by all, because everyone ended up knowing and appreciating his extraordinary pragmatism and his way of understanding politics as an instrument to always change for the better. As strong in him was the conviction that identity and sense of belonging were not to be lived as a legacy of the past, but as a value to enlarge the mind and open to the world. A year ago, when he disappeared, the emotion was very strong. He left suddenly, in his mountains, during a hunting trip that was his great passion. Today we regret losing a figure that was an example and a model for so many young people, for so much of our political class, regardless of colors and belongings. However, his memory remains alive not only in us who have had him as a friend and as a party partner, but also in the Mochen community and throughout our regional community. [[Applause from Senators Verducci and Zeller.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u65	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on Thursday 19 November the Court of Cassation will decide on the appeal of the Prosecutor of L'Aquila against the acquittal of six of the seven members of the Commission, which on 31 March 2009, five days before the tragic earthquake of 6 April 2009, which caused 309 martyrs, 1,600 wounded and 65,000 displaced, met in L'Aquila and, through a media operation, reassured the population of the improbability that the seismic swarm, which has been going on for some months, could follow a dangerous seismic event of a certain thickness, causing the eagles to stay in their homes, comforted by the false theory of the discharge of energy. The families of the victims and all citizens who ask for truth and justice will be before the Court of Cassation, because the judgment of appeal was the denial even of the meeting with the Commission great risks. And one cannot continue to conceal the truth about that night, which has changed the life of us eagles forever and destroyed the socio-economic fabric of the city. L'Aquila is still largely scarred and the reconstruction phase, as also supported by Don Ciotti's Libera, continues to slow down with continuous ordinances in derogation from ordinary laws, which have only had the consequence of transforming everything that in the rest of Italy is illegal into legal. It is a painting that has fostered corruption, evil and criminal infiltration. I, too, Mr President, would like to give the floor, but I would like to conclude by following the letter sent by Libera to President Mattarella and I would like to address the presidency of the Senate by asking, pursuant to paragraph 2 of Rule 162 of the Rules of Procedure, to set the time limit for the Environment Commission to report to the House on document XXII No 5, which intends to set up the Committee of Inquiry and which has been requested for six times at the Conference of the Leaders. I would ask that this deadline be given immediately also out of respect for those 309 victims. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u66	The Presidency shall authorise you to attach the text of your statement to the Report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u67	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-538.ana.u68	The Senate will meet again in public session on Thursday 19 November, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.45 p.m.
