ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u1	The sitting is open (10:18 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 12 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure (at 10:21 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u4	The next item is the government statement on recent developments in Libya. I call the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Gentiloni Silveri.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis in Libya today presents a serious deterioration in the security framework, highlighted in recent weeks by the attack on Tripoli at the Hotel Corinthia on 27 January, the most important and considered the safest hotel in Tripoli; with repeated raids to oil plants both in the North West of Libya and in the South in the Fezzan region and, finally, with the barbaric killing, symbolic in its atrocities, of twenty-one Coptic Christians in Sirte. This picture led us to decide, in early February, and then to implement, on 15 February, the closure, which we hope temporary, of our embassy, the last Western embassy present in Tripoli. And on this occasion too, I would like to thank those responsible for the Farnesina, the Defense and the Intelligence, who took part in the operation. The reality of the presence of terrorist groups in Libya must be carefully assessed, distinguishing between typically local phenomena, such as Ansar al-Sharia, common crime that is instrumentally based on these phenomena, and external realities, represented by foreign fighters who respond to Daesh and flow from African and Middle Eastern crisis areas. These phenomena are self-sustaining, at this stage, taking advantage of the absence of an institutional framework. In this way, these groups have taken control of an important city overlooking the Mediterranean like Derna; they are trying, but the situation is very contrasted, to take possession of Sirte, 500 kilometers east from Tripoli; to maintain control of some areas of Benghazi and even look to the capital. There is a clear risk of welding between local groups and Daesh and this is why the situation must be followed with the utmost attention. The origins of the current crisis must be sought in the mistakes made, also by the international community, in the phase following the fall of the old regime. Gaddafi's fall has uncovered political, religious, regional, ethnic and tribal rivalries that the dictatorship had succeeded largely in suffocating, and the inability to channel these forces into a democratic dialogue constituted the main vulnus of the transition process, despite some encouraging steps such as the July 2012 elections that had led to the constitution of the Zidan government, which lasted until March 2014. And we all assumed that this was a more stable and lasting solution. In its difficult transition to democracy, Libya has remained exposed to the divisions between factions, favored by the large presence of armaments, by the fragility of the new institutions and by the same enormous wealth of the country, object of the conflict between opposing interest groups. All this has stifled in the bud the attempt to relaunch the Libyan transition, which took place with the elections for the House of Representatives last June. And although the elections produced a Parliament and a Government recognized by the international community, they did not mark a decisive turning point in the political process. Today, therefore, we are with a country that has a vast territory, with virtually failed institutions and potential serious repercussions not only on Italy, but also on the stability and sustainability of the transition processes in African countries in its immediate vicinity. Italy has decided, from the first moment, to support continuously the efforts of the United Nations mediation conducted by envoy Bernardino Leòn, bearing in mind that the only solution to the crisis in the country is political. After the two dialogue sessions in Geneva in January, the Ghadames meeting on 11 February last saw the participation, for the first time, of the Congress of Tripoli, even if they were meetings in sequence and have never, unfortunately, been around the same table. It was, however, a step in the right direction and we have come to this result with great commitment, first of all, of our country, of our diplomats in Libya, of our intelligence, which has made available to the United Nations not only its heritage of political contacts, but also an important logistical assistance, without which these dialogue sessions would have been impossible. However, I believe that we must tell ourselves the truth: while the negotiations are taking these steps, the situation is getting worse. The time available is not infinite and is in danger of running out soon, undermining the fragile results achieved. The deterioration of the situation on the ground and the growing terrorist threat also result in the worsening of the tragedy of the thousands of people fleeing by sea on boats, with increasingly aggressive and threatening criminal organizations behind them, who have arrived - as you know - to the point of threatening some of the means of our Coast Guard. In this regard, the data available are very clear and tell us that the number of landings has increased much compared to last year: from 1 January to mid-February in fact came, in our country, 5,302 people, while in the same period last year (we are obviously in the middle of winter) the landings had been 3,338. It was therefore not Mare nostrum that attracted migrants, but the drama of the crisis areas on which they speculate, in the Libyan institutional vacuum, highly aggressive criminal gangs. Faced with the growth of the migratory wave one thing is certain: we cannot turn on the other side, leaving migrants to their destiny. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator De Cristofaro]] We cannot do this: it would not be worthy of the humanity and civilization that have made Italy great. We must fight, on the one hand, to counter the causes of migration in countries of origin and transit and, on the other hand, to significantly strengthen Triton, to adapt it to the reality of a phenomenon that has a huge scale. In this regard, two or three days ago I sent a letter to the High Representative of the European Union, Federica Mogherini, to the Vice-President of the Union, Timmermans, and to the six other Commissioners of the Juncker Commission on migration, in which I asked, on behalf of the Italian Government, for the European Union to do more in terms of financial resources and financing of new aircraft vehicles, in order to respond effectively to this emergency, considering that - I repeat - the landings have now increased by 59 percent compared to 2014. Europe is an economic superpower and I believe that the European Union can objectively go over 50 million a year to deal with an emergency of this size. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the threats of terrorism, our strength is our unity. To say that we are in the front row against terrorism is not the announcement of adventures, much less crusades: that is simply what we are already doing in the anti-Daesh military coalition in Syria and Iraq. And the way in which a democratic country responds to barbarism and does so in friendship with the vast majority of the Islamic community, which refuses to see its religious faith seized. While we are in the front row against terrorism, we ask the international community to multiply diplomatic political efforts to stabilise Libya. And finally we see at least growing awareness of the quality of the crisis and the need for these new efforts. The statement made yesterday evening by the five major Western countries also goes in this direction. The first important meeting is the United Nations Security Council meeting, to be held this afternoon in New York. From this appointment we expect a definitive awareness, at the Glass Palace, of the need to double the mediation efforts for political dialogue. The crucial stage will then be, in the coming days, the renewal of the mandate of the UNSMIL mission - the UN mission for Libya - that the Security Council will have to decide by 13 March next. We are working with our partners in the Security Council to provide the mission with a mandate, means and resources to speed up the process of political dialogue, to establish the forms of assistance to a new framework of reconciliation, to a new government of national unity, which is the prerequisite for a breakthrough in the Libyan crisis. In this process, Italy is ready to assume its responsibilities and is ready to assume top responsibilities. We are ready, like Italy, to contribute to the monitoring of the ceasefire. We are ready to contribute to the maintenance of peace. We are ready to contribute to infrastructure rehabilitation, military training in a framework of integration of militias into the regular army, to cure and heal the wounds of war. Above all, we are ready to resume our extensive cooperation programme with Libya, which was suspended last summer due to the resumption of the conflict, because the civilian population must have clear advantages of reconciliation on our part and on the part of the entire international community. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the deterioration of the situation that I have tried to describe requires - I would stress that it requires - a change of pace on the part of the international community, for which Italy is working at all levels, in these days and in the last hours. The Government is committed to promoting it and will keep Parliament, majority and opposition, constantly informed of developments in the situation. The Libyan crisis puts us in front of one of those passages in which we all have to discuss and confront each other, but having a common compass: the general interest of the country. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI) and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u6	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Government. Senator Mauro Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u7	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, allow me to debut my brief speech on behalf of the Group of the Grand Autonomous and Freedom Group to convey to you the non-formal sentiments of solidarity with the threats that have been raised in the face of statements - and I would like to stress this and also illustrate it through reflections - which have been, in my view, largely distorted, or rather not evaluated in the right direction. I come immediately to some remarks of which I would like the Government not to say that it treasures, but at least to consider in the perspective of the undoubted leading role that Italy is called to play on the Libyan dossier. I'm trying to explain myself. There is no need for any parliamentary debate and any parliamentary act providing the Italian Government with instruments and determinations to decide the war against the Islamic State, against ISIS, against Daesh. There is no need because we have already done so. There are already parliamentary acts that commit our Government to confronting ISIS, intended as a terrorist project and terrorist militias that are hurting human dignity at different latitudes. If our Government has already engaged military forces in Iraqi Kurdistan, why do we in that place train Kurdish peshmerga; if our Government has already engaged Italian Tornadoes in reconnaissance activities in Iraqi Kurdistan and Syria, what sense does it have to say that there is a need for a new determination to fight the Islamic State and ISIS militias in any other latitude? The ISIS militias, which move in the Libyan desert and are arriving on the coast and in Tripoli, are made of men who have already fought until yesterday in Syria and Iraq. The political-ideological project of the caliphate is, by its nature, an international project, cosmopolitan, which even refers to citizens with a European passport. Therefore, if we have already decided, and with determination, to challenge the Islamic State and ISIS, it means that that fight must be done everywhere and with the same determination. Therefore, when it is said that we are ready to fight, it does not mean that we are in a position to fight, because a challenge has been thrown at our way of conceiving life, at our values, at our secular belief in a building of civilizations that is essentially based on respect for human dignity. The second point I make concerns Libyan territory, the issue of Libya itself. As you rightly pointed out, Minister, there are factions in Libya, first of all Ansar al-Sharia, who certainly have a more local character but who, in the same way and at the same time, have no confidence and no interest in the birth of a Libyan democratic state. And this, although noted also by the American authorities present in place, like the US ambassador, causes a difficulty first of all of mentality, because the struggle between the Libyan factions is struggle between those who conceive the State as the gang that has won: that is, believes that once you have taken power, you have to manage it with the criterion of "taking everything myself." This is what makes it enormously difficult to try to mediate only diplomatically within the Libyan scenario, and this is always what calls into question at first instance the priority role of Italy. I'll explain. We are the ones who have the most problems with Libya, because surely the flow of migrants and refugees coming from those coasts puts us in enormous difficulty. At the same time, however - and this is the point of the challenge - we are the ones who will benefit most if we can find a suitable solution to this problem. Then, Minister, why not also consider the possibility, which was also included in Mare nostrum's options, of making interventions on the ground, on the Libyan coast, to destroy on the ground, even before they leave, the boats that force migrants to certain death? [[Applause from the LAG groups (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI), LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII]] Why not consider this option that has already been implemented by the Government of Alema, when we found ourselves in a similar situation in the Albanian scenario? Why, that is, not to understand that an action of military intervention, of content and form very limited, could draw us out of trouble and from the obligation to face instead the danger of a confrontation with the militias of ISIS that triumph on the coast, and at that point arm and lead the barchini and the boats in armed solutions for actions of piracy within the Channel of Sicily and the Mediterranean sea? We are called to give these answers, just as we are called to overcome the contradictions of a lack of culture of defence that seems perniciously to afflict our political framework. In this sense, I address all the political forces that have been the protagonists of government over the last ten years. The Italian Defense budget in ten years has been cut by 26 percent; Germany's budget has grown by 3.8 percent in ten years. These are fundamental questions, because we will never be able to exercise a role, which is strong because it derives from the deterrent, if we do not understand that Italy must have a face that is fully respected for the role it can play. Our problem with regard to the culture of defence, which unfortunately afflicts - I say without controversy - in a special way the relative majority party, is that we cannot force ourselves to undo at night what we have built during the day. We cannot promote military endowment programs by day and unload them with incredible motions at night. We cannot be constantly in contradiction with ourselves, because this does not make us credible in the international scenario. It is good, therefore, that on the Libyan question, precisely because there is the favor and the consent of an Italian population who understands how important the issue of defence is, the Italian Government returns to play a key role in the relationship with the Western allies and those who, in the Arab countries, fight for democracy and freedom. I would like to make one final comment on Europe. I am truly mortified, because European policy shows all its difficulties when, on his way to the UN, he is qualified by the long sequence of ambassadors from the countries of the European Union (well 28), to which is added that of the European Union. In reality, this gives an image of what the European Union is about foreign policy: a sort of totally helpless non-governmental organisation. For there to be decisive European action, Italy does well to plan, in every place and in every circumstance, the duty to promote and act for greater integration, but it is also necessary that we put a few points on the "i." Should we really wait for the appointment of an Italian High Representative of the European Union to make that role even more mortified, excluding Mrs Mogherini from the talks on the subject of Iranian nuclear and, therefore, putting in a condition of objective minority who exercises that role? Should we really wait for the appointment of an Italian High Representative of the European Union to become even more marginalized in the context of the Ukrainian crisis? [[Applause from the LAG groups (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI) and LN-Aut and Senator Liuzzi]] I believe that this is a matter which basically concerns posture, the way in which the Italian Government exercises its presence in international institutions. And I can assure you that there will be in this Parliament the support of all the groups, of all the members of the Italian Parliament, so that the Italian Government can be proud of the outcome downstream of its actions. Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, at this difficult time, in addition to once again stressing their closeness and solidarity, I would also like to say that the Euro-Mediterranean scenario, Europe and the whole world really need Italy in a non-rhetorical way, and Italy can and must illuminate such a difficult circumstance, precisely because it has a very profound culture of peace. However, that culture of peace, which can shine in diplomatic action, must also have behind it a foundation of legal certainty and the ability to exercise the defence of peoples and citizens, which cannot be called into question by any oblique, uncertain or timid attitude. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI), FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC) and LN-Aut]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u8	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u9	Minister, we were concerned when a coalition of irresponsible people decided to declare war on Libya: irresponsible because they went to Libya with the support of the public, saying that the dictator had to be deposed, but they did so without a project and without a medium- to long-term political vision. The League said these things with reason and, given what is happening, I think that perhaps some, especially those who at the time exulted and did the phenomena on this issue, today should apologize at least to those Italians who had believed in a project that seemed serious. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Deposed a dictator - a dictator, and we emphasize it - they left a territory in the hands of tribes that everything is except civilized (loving to the brink), and unfortunately Italy was left alone to manage an invasion. Now, however, we are concerned, Minister, because for a year we have been managing an uncontrolled invasion of illegal immigrants from the Libyan coasts. They are desperate in the hands of slave traffickers, terrorists - she too, on more than one occasion, said that there is this risk - of Italians who speculate by earning on the welcome and of a state unable to manage its own borders. Libya, Minister, Colabrodo of Africa, Italy, Colabrodo of Europe. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I am saying this rightly, also on the basis of what happened to the coast guard's patrol boat, sent to Libyan territorial waters to manage the invasion without being protected and without even the possibility of defending itself. You don't go to bed in territorial waters where there's a crisis like this going on, but you sent them to bed. [[Applause from Senator Simeoni]] You are right, Minister, when you say that in front of this, which I call an invasion, we must not turn around. He is absolutely right: we must look at this invasion in the face, we must not turn around and we must prevent them from leaving, and we must not accept them halfway. We must prevent them from leaving, as all other countries do. In other European countries they do this. Italy, however - as I said - is the colabrode of Europe and there are responsibilities. We are concerned, Minister, because international analysts have been warning us for months about the advance of ISIS. We haven't known since yesterday, unfortunately, but for months. For months ISIS has been threatening, more or less publicly, Italy and the Vatican. For months, several people have been warning that there is a risk of terrorist infiltration among illegal immigrants arriving in Italy, but, Minister, the government wakes up now. We're here to talk about it now, when everyone's been saying to be very careful for months. And yet just now we're here to talk about what to do. We are concerned because two Ministers of this Government speak of armed intervention and war. In our opinion, the priority is to stop landings. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] But what are you going to do, Minister? Given the precedents of the peace missions, we go to Libya and then we are forced to help the refugees. Unfortunately, the League does not say this, but it is the result of the disasters of our peace missions (not only those of Italy, but in general): wherever a mission of peace was sent to bring democracy, then we found the refugees on the Libyan coasts. So let us try to reason: let us block the borders and then, if necessary, let us do what you want to do. Finally, Minister, we are not only concerned, but we are very concerned about the lightness of this Government, which first speaks of war and then diplomacy. First show your muscles, then, when you realize that we wouldn't even be able to invade San Marino, tell us that maybe it's better to talk about diplomacy. The problem is that diplomacy too, Minister, at this moment makes water, with a Europe that is firm, immobile and useless. At this point, we therefore call for concrete action. We ask you for concrete things: no more words, no more chatter, because, Minister, when something should unfortunately happen to one of our fellow citizens, the blame will be on your immobility and not ours. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u10	He's enlisted to speak Senator Battista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u11	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by reminding you that yesterday there was the anniversary of an event that has permanently marked Western history: it was in fact 17 February 1600 when it was burned alive in Campo de' fiori Giordano Bruno, condemned by the Holy Inquisition. Since then, every time we talk about tolerance, freedom of expression, religiosity, we are heirs who should make good use of the left philosophical heritage and which still contains a message that challenges us today. It was also February 17, this time in 2011, when the first demonstrations in Benghazi against Colonel Gaddafi began. As we all know, with the adoption of UN Security Council Resolution 1973, known air raids, Gaddafi's death and the 2012 elections followed. However, military intervention has abandoned Libya to itself and militias, then not appropriately disarmed, and therefore potentially able to threaten the institutional vacuum left. The latter, getting worse with the time and the arrival of appetites of conquest by the militia groups and finally of the caliphate, has thrown under the nose of the international community a question no longer procrastinable. The answer can only be choral and focus in the search for international legal protection of the United Nations, as the Italian Government has already reiterated, also confirming the willingness of our country to operate in the field of international missions. This happens although Italy is pouring out in a period of economic crisis, which, once passed, will have to see us engaged in reaching 2% of GDP for the defence sector. I do not hide from you, Minister, that during the work of the NATO delegation, in which I participate, it is, unfortunately, clear that the problem of the Mediterranean and the Libyan crisis is not as important as what is happening in Ukraine. But it is up to us parliamentarians, and especially you and your Government, to continue to place the attention that the Mediterranean area must have on all international tables. Our country is geographically and historically linked to Libya, for good and for bad, can therefore be an interlocutor able to raise fundamental questions relative to the energy supply of all Europe: in fact, it does not escape the more that, in the perspective of the diversification of the sources of supply, we are faced with two enormous problems: on the one hand the Libyan crisis and on the other the Ukrainian one. The latter seems to be at the centre of the attention of the media and all international bodies for the scale of the issues it raises. Leaving a continent at the mercy of two crises would mean surrendering it to uncertainty about energy policies and subjecting it to two blackmails. I therefore believe that it is essential to strengthen the role of Italy in international fora as a force of interposition, in order to show our allies and public opinion our attention to all the theatres of crisis, even in order to avoid instrumental positions. Faced with the challenge posed to us by the representatives of the Daesh, and their stock of culture of barbarism and violence, we are called upon to take responsibility, to take decisions within the European Union's foreign policy, which still needs to be fully structured and to take decisions by the Security Council. I borrow the words of an analyst from the European council on foreign relations, Mattia Toaldo, yesterday about the Republic, who, in answering the question on what type of intervention could be effective answers: A certain degree of military force is essential. The fundamental element, which has so far been lacking in Syria and Iraq, is the political agreement in the local population that allows the isolation of extremists and a minimum of state machinery: some border posts, police, basic services. One of the sources of Is's consent is its ability to "become a State." And for this reason we return to "box one": we will be able to fight the Is if we rebuild a Libyan state, or even just a political agreement between tribes, militias and Libyan factions. Among the threats that the caliphate throws at us in these hours, there is that of uncontrolled migrations to Italy. If this happens, our nation will be at the center of a substantial and difficult to control migratory flow, with all the tragic humanitarian circumstances that will result. I hope that there will be the support of all the Member States of the European Union in the patrolling of the coasts and therefore of the southern borders of Europe, today left to our Navy and our Coast Guard, who face with devotion and spirit of service a commitment that safeguards, on the one hand, the many lives of migrants victims of human trafficking and, on the other, the demand for security expressed by the Member States. I would therefore like to stigmatize the recent attack by a Coast Guard patrolman during a rescue operation. Therefore, the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE will support the Government's decision to act co-ordinatedly with other UN countries and to intervene under the legal protection of the United Nations Security Council. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and Senator Vattuone]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u12	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u13	Minister, we hope that today can be really useful to build a political position of our country on the dramatic Libyan events a little more serious and a little more articulated than some statement, let me say, in some cases really a little sudden pronounced in recent days by various representatives of the Government, also by you and I say it with great sharpness, that certainly have not helped neither the interests of our country and not even the Italian civil personnel on the territory. To confuse, for example, the situation in Libya with other events that have also led, in the past years, to the use of international peace keeping and interposition missions, means to make a serious mistake and approach this situation with a probably wrong analysis. Of course we do not escape at all, I would like to say it on behalf of the Left, Ecology and Freedom and of the entire Mixed Group, the deep gravity of the situation, the threat posed by ISIS (without, however, making the mistake of assimilating to this everything that is happening today, in particular in the Libyan territory) and still, of course, the absolute instability in which a substantial part of the world is placed, not even too far from us: the attacks in the European capitals, the anti-Semitic regurgitations and the war for gangs that is being fought in the Libyan state, all things that are clearly evidence of the gravity of the situation. This is such a delicate and complex situation that it would have deserved, and deserved, a much more incisive role than the European Union which, on the other hand, is once again the great absentee, as has been seen in the management of the Triton mission through the Frontex agency. We believe that a rapid reconstruction of the Libyan crisis, a crisis due to the umpteenth failure of the doctrine of humanitarian interference, is useful to give meaning to this debate, as we have often said, even in great solitude, over the course of these years. Libya is now in the hands of armed gangs, only partially connected to ISIS, with secessionist pushes in place also for the control of oil resources and a civil war for proxy with the active involvement of different and significant regional powers. We have said several times: this situation is due to the total failure of the political and strategic choices of the Western countries pursued in recent years. A much more serious budget would have been needed than what has happened in the last 20 years, for example because the situation in the world has not improved at all since 2001 but, indeed, has been totally aggravated. This conflict in Libya was fueled mainly by the absence of a state structure, also resulting from the end of the Gaddafi regime (a regime that we obviously do not regret), within which ISIS penetrated. For this reason too, it seems essential for us to intervene first on this ground, rather than launching a military adventure that, as has been pointed out and rightly observed, could be the most welcome favor for the leadership of the caliphate. We believe that action should be taken in the first instance to rebuild a state structure in Libya, supporting all the diplomatic initiatives of the United Nations. We share the view that a possible agreement between the parties requires a macro-regional approach, for example by imagining a wide-ranging and open consultation process for policies of fair redistribution of oil resources. Without forgetting, of course, that the same colonial past, never reworked by our country, is another reason that drives us to reject military adventures. Precisely because we are convinced that a total contrast to the murderous beasts of ISIS is decisive, we think, today more than ever, that fundamentalist terrorism should not be given this other instrument, that is, the possibility of spreading across the African continent, which would be the inevitable consequence of military intervention. We must, on the other hand, counter that propaganda that feeds even more the fear of the conflict, painting Libya today as a country completely in the hands of fundamentalism, perhaps only to favor the race for a new armament. But unfortunately, Minister, the latest news about the Government's intentions to confirm the F-35 purchase programme, despite the parliamentary motions, is very indicative from this point of view, as well as very wrong. It would indeed be appropriate for Parliament to return to its voice on this point, which was the subject of great debate at the time of the electoral campaign and then in the parliamentary debate, and which, on the other hand, is back on track today. As a last consideration, Minister, you said correctly, and I appreciated this part of your speech, that the cause of the increase in the landings of migrants on our coasts is due precisely to the war and to people who run away from the war, and certainly not to Mare nostrum; quite right, however, that in the past months, a certain bursting propaganda carried out in this country, of those who claimed the opposite of this thesis (that the landings occurred precisely because Mare nostrum existed), has also broken in our Government and that, with great lightness, it has been agreed to replace Mare nostrum with a completely different mission, that obviously could not have those characteristics and that it has proved, in the light of the facts, completely insufficient to prevent the tragedies that happened in the Mediterranean. Today we should have the courage to restore Mare nostrum and, better still, to do so with a proposal from the whole of the European Union. In any case, we should ensure that we are present in the Mediterranean Sea in order to activate those humanitarian channels for refugees and asylum seekers which we believe are absolutely essential. On this, Minister, each of us is ready to do our part. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and the Senators Bocchino, Casaletto, De Pin and Gambaro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u14	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u15	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you because, as long as there is bicameralism, I believe that the request you have made over the last few hours to the Government to come and report here in the Senate, after being in the Chamber of Deputies, is correct because what is taking place in this House is a central debate on the problems of Italy and our Mediterranean. [[Applause from Senator Cattaneo]] The second consideration I want to make is that in a short time it is difficult to address such a complex topic as that of Libya, but I mean that I am reassured by the words that Minister Gentiloni Silveri told us today, while I was much less so by the alternation of voices these days, which have not always made clear on the Italian position. You have been clear and clear today, Minister. I will not repeat what you have said, on which I fully agree. Before making or announcing decisions on such sensitive matters, it is necessary to reflect on the past and the mistakes we have made. You see, ladies and gentlemen, someone often says that the French military action against Gaddafi was a mistake, with arguments supported by a logic: we had a terrible dictator, today we have many who emulate Gaddafi and that make the situation even more confusing, canceling any statehood in Libya. Someone else believes it was good to drive a person like Gaddafi out anyway. At this moment, however, I am not interested in historical analysis of the usefulness or not of that action. Instead, I am interested in analyzing to the full the mistakes that we have made because, right or wrong that it was the action against Gaddafi, the biggest mistake that the coalition has made was to think of resolving the issue by intervening and leaving Libya to its destiny. But in such a confused condition, with tribal, ethnic, religious and localistic issues, how could one think that one had completed the task with bombings in Tripoli and in the surrounding areas, or by hunting Gaddafi? We cannot redo, perhaps for the best intentions and with the best intentions, the same mistakes we have made in the past. As for military action, excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but against whom? For what? In what way? There's the good guys and there's the bad guys? As you said very well today, Minister, the situation is so intricate that talking about military actions is already a contradiction, if we do not know to whom in some way this military action should benefit and to whom a military alliance should be established in a condition that objectively is of confusion at 360 degrees. Allow me, then, we are not naive: we can all think that we can tolerate in foreign policy, but not ingenuity, which is a mortal sin and of the best intentions are paved the way to hell. When it is then said that there is now the Daesh or the ISIS in Tripolitania, in Libya, let us not forget that there is a franchise action very well described by our Minister for which some extremist groups lower their flags and pull up those black Daesh so as to have a greater visibility, because also in the world of terrorism there are the logics that sometimes belong to other human communities and other contexts (and I do not want to give examples, because I could make them to iosa). Let us then try to understand that the alternative to sowing Libya's soil with political dialogue is not there. I repeat, he's not here. Sure, it's not enough. Very well, it is insufficient; we must do more, but political dialogue is the prerequisite for all actions, because otherwise we describe a reality that is not there. Political dialogue is fundamental. This is why we must also be grateful to the Italian diplomacy that, until the last one, tried to keep that Tricolor up in Tripoli: it was not a national exhibitionism, but the attempt, from that location, to have political dialogue with all sides. Sorry, I want to tell you something else. The controversy that we see in our newspapers about the possible or presumed involvement in these events of Professor Prodi (who I highly esteem and who is a great friend, as well as an Italian who certainly honors us) is ridiculous. I repeat, they're ridiculous. Most of the time they have no connection with what is the reality of the facts. Today we have a UN mediator, Bernardino León. We try to support it, but above all we try to support a political dialogue, because each of these groups has some dunes behind it (maybe those countries that condemn terrorism, but that then finance it). This is a problem that we have to face, bearing in mind that there are neighbors: the Egyptians. Very well, fellow senators, there are the Egyptians, but also the Algerians and Tunisians. We know that sometimes an Egyptian action can certainly not be accepted by those on the other side of Libya with the kindness with which we see it instead. Political dialogue must therefore not be only with the factions, but must be with neighbouring countries. This is the role of Europe and the United States, because this is the key to creating a protective and preventive network. The intervention may be there: perhaps there will also be, but it must be the last point of a piece, because otherwise we will go to do additional trouble to the existing troubles. I would like to say one thing about this, because the Vice President of my Commission, Senator De Cristofaro, spoke of Mare nostrum. Also in this case, we are proud of our country and I say it in the presence of our new senator for life, or, better (since senator for life was even before), our new senator returned in full title, President Napolitano. [[Applause]] We are proud of what Italy is and how it is. We are proud that Italians help others at sea, however, colleagues, we are not allowed to be naive. The organized crime and the gangs we find with those black banners are the same ones that force the desperate to embark with the sea in storm, because they seek the massacres, so as to induce the western community and Italy to attitudes that play on the sense of humanity that is typical of our society. So let us be careful: when we talk about illegal immigration, we talk about an instrument of war, because these people use it as an instrument of war towards Italy and Europe. So we need to be a little disenchanted. Senator De Cristofaro, allow me also to connect to the call you made to the F-35s. Excuse me, but this is a time when we must be careful and remain anchored to obligations and programmes, which are not war programmes, but peace programmes. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and Senator Carraro]] In fact, without the deterrence of adequate equipment, we end up going to a world that is even more difficult than what we went through until yesterday, that is, a world in which there are outbreaks of war everywhere, without any defensive and dissuasive ability. Therefore, if there is a time when the problem of the equipment of our military forces must also be seen with great attention, it is precisely this. However, I think that the government is on the right track today; it has already been so with the clear speeches, which I shared, of President Renzi yesterday. There will be other international meetings tomorrow. The UN Security Council is meeting today. We hope that there will be a strong contribution there to a strong initiative, which must still be a diplomatic initiative at this stage. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC), PD and FI-PdL XVII and Senator Rubbia. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I believe that this is yet another occasion on which we feel like taking hold of the shoulders. Why do I say that? I say this because the things you are telling us these days, dear Minister, you can probably tell this Parliament, that it is Parliament that applauded the former President of the Republic of Naples when he wandered it, because its members were part of a now decadent and dying caste; they applauded because they did not understand that he was talking about them. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] You can tell this to a Parliament made of these parliamentarians, who do not understand that the new President of the Republic has called for a strong fight against corruption; they applaud this issue, but do not vote on it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] You can tell this to this Parliament. But you know what, Minister? There is that since March 15, 2013 a new political force has arrived in these rooms, called the 5 Star Movement, a movement made up of citizens who want to tell things as they are. This is the only function we have in here: to say things as they are. So let's start telling her what's going on. First of all, there is a first point, which is the media narration that this so-called terrorist group ISIS makes against us. We should probably ask ourselves what they are telling us; how they present themselves to the world is simply what you want: the scenes they show us are exactly what you want, to use them for your use and consumption. Another key point is a political and economic aspect. You do not have the courage to say things as they are; then we tell you. Who arrived before your great enemy - former friend - Gaddafi in Libya? We arrived many years earlier with ENI. Why do I make this quote? Because it's no accident. Italy is the first nation to have interests in Libya. Our CEO, our "Minister of Foreign Affairs" until some time ago, Paolo Scaroni, is news of these days that has been intercepted for a land exchange in Mozambique. The exchange took place directly with the President of Mozambique, Armando Guebuza; and this already makes us say a lot about our economic power in those countries. A power in front of which the army Pinotti, composed of 5,000 soldiers, shudders, because the ENI can put in place a turnover of 154 billion, with a profit of 10 billion, made by 82,000 employees. Other than the Pinotti army! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I would like to remind you that the ENI is controlled by Cassa Depositi e Prestiti (i.e. by us) and 3% by the MEF. So let's start pointing the finger at the actual reasons for all this war scenery. Why did I refer to ENI? Because probably you or you do not know or dare to say that there is a subject, the leader of a Libyan militia Fajr, whose name is Salah Badi, who is a Libyan warlord who opposes the pro-Egyptian general Haftar and who declared, a few days ago, that the compound oil & gas of the ENI, located in Mellita, from where starts our submarine pipeline that reaches Gela, is protected today by our men. That is the scenario we need to talk about. That is the information we need to give our citizens. There is another institutional aspect. So far you've fooled us because we were shouting at the plot and shouting at the "never again" no man alone in command. Well, this scenario takes us back so many decades in time. The reforms you are making will foresee one man in command and all this happens with a possible war at our borders. Now I would like to ask you a question: in this complex and dangerous scenario, how do our reforms fit and what are the scenarios really possible in the future? I close this very short speech, even if the things we would have to tell you and tell you would be so many, since you do not tell them, with some requests. We call for the UN resolution to be of real value and effective, capable of taking into account the heterogeneity of a new Libyan government representing all minorities and all tribes. We also call for an attempt to form a single government in Libya and we know from domestic Libyan sources that this will happen within a few weeks, at the latest within a month. Faced with this, we are also calling for greater control of the southern borders of Libya, which is the real focal point of the problem of migratory flows. Mr. Minister, I still haven't figured out if you're the Minister of Defence or Foreign Affairs. He came here to tell us things that we could easily read in your newspapers, detached from reality and totally devoid of content. I'm gonna close it with a joke. If the quartet Renzi, Alfano, Pinotti, Gentiloni defends us from this spectre, if anything the danger should arrive in South Rome, we have only one hope: that to stop them is the sacred Great ring link, beyond this we have no hope. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u18	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u19	Mr President, I do not think it is time to make jokes. It is useless to retrace in detail the disaster caused by the West, and in particular by France and Great Britain, with the intervention in Libya of 2011, to which the then Prime Minister Berlusconi was the only one to declare explicitly opposed. It is useful to remember, however, to all of us, how that intervention broke a secular tribal balance, which in some way ruled even under Gaddafi's regime. The superficiality of those choices has not even taken into account the need to maintain a state apparatus that could guarantee a transition towards more democratic and participatory forms. Now, that balance has been replaced by a system of gangs, of warlords who often no longer even have a direct relationship with the original tribal division, and this creates an immense difficulty in correctly reading the situation on the ground. A situation of total chaos in which the Islamic caliphate found fertile ground, which has instruments of deadly attraction, such as an ideology of religious domination, combined with huge financial resources. The failure of every diplomatic process to date stems precisely from this difficulty of the West of reading the opposing necessities of recognizing political credibility to each of the two factions in the field, that of Abdullah al-Thani and his Government of Tobruk, supported by former general Khalifa Haftar and recognized by the West, and that of the Government of Tripoli, close to the Muslim brothers. These failures, this inability to understand, these divergent readings are the cause of the drift we are experiencing. What, then, are the possible actions and remedies before us? You, Minister, said this morning that the only solution to the Libyan crisis is political; words very different from those spoken only a few days ago by yourself and Minister Pinotti. We note, however, the superficiality of certain precipitous statements, then corrected by Prime Minister Renzi. So there are essentially four roads to go now. The first is an exclusively diplomatic option, tending to put at the negotiating table as many factions as possible, with the aim of creating a government of national unity, as moreover hypothesized yesterday evening by the Governments of Italy, France, Germany, Spain, the United Kingdom and the United States. The second is a naval blockade on the coasts of Libya, not necessarily alternative to the first option, which neutralizes the boats of the merchants of men before they can leave with their loads of desperate. A third option is a military intervention in support of one of the main factions, as suggested by Egyptian President al-Sisi, that in the total inertia of Western leadership has become the only credible bulwark before the advance of the Islamic caliphate (and this should make the whole West reflect). Another possibility is military intervention with the aim of creating a UN protectorate on the ground, which is frankly unlikely for the difficulty and commitment of men and disproportionate means it would require. Whatever the choice, Minister, we ask the Government to make it clear, shared and decided by Parliament. Forza Italia will never miss its responsible contribution, as always. We must note with regret that our foreign policy is irrelevant to the main geopolitical scenarios: we are not in the Group of 5+1 working on Iran's nuclear, we have had no say in the Ukraine crisis. I hope that at least this time, with this situation a few hundred kilometres from us, we will be able to play the role that is ours. This morning the "Daily Telegraph," citing secret documents of the jihadists, published a revelation: ISIS wants to use Libya to bring chaos to the south of Europe. According to one of the main recruiters of the Islamic State in Libya, ISIS wants to infiltrate the boats of migrants in the Mediterranean and attack the maritime companies and ships of the Crusaders. Minister, it is true that we cannot turn on the other side of the thousands of immigrants who have left and will leave for our coasts, but we cannot use our Navy to invade us. I ask you: are we able, Minister, at least to intervene to stop the countless deaths at sea and stop this invasion? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u20	Senator Latorre is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u21	Mr President, Minister, first of all, I too would like to thank you for the speed with which you are referring to the Chambers on the Libyan crisis. I would like to express to you all your solidarity, my personal and the Group of the Party of European Socialists, for the threats you have received. We are really close to you with all our heart and concretely, confirming the commitment of a fight without a neighborhood against terrorism. A commitment that you have reiterated here, all the more in the presence of an offensive, that of jihadist terrorism, that in the West, in our societies, has very different characteristics than what we have known so far and that are combined with a very dangerous political project of destabilisation of the whole area in which the caliphate acts. It is in this context that the Libyan crisis is placed. In these hours and also, alas, in this debate we continue to discuss this issue only in relation to the tragedy of immigration, on which you have said words that are completely acceptable but which are, if anything, the consequence of a crisis that has put us, for some time now, in front of a Libya with state structures destroyed, with two governments, none of which represent the entire Libyan people, and a civil war between the numerous militias, armed to the teeth and all this at a crucial point of the Mediterranean. It is no coincidence that the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Renzi, since his address to the United Nations Assembly in September last year and, last but not least, to the one given in Brussels a few days ago, is putting Libya in a strong position, as a dossier which must be treated with the same attention and the same commitment with which, for example, the crisis in Ukraine is being dealt with. In fact, the stabilisation of Libya is now crucial for the stabilisation of the entire Mediterranean area and for the security of Europe as a whole. It is not a lack of courage and responsibility, as it has been heard evoke, alas, in a debate much more functional to internal political controversy than to a serious debate on what is happening. The opposite is true: our country is putting in place so much courage and above all so much responsibility, ready to do everything that will be necessary, but having clear that we must put in place a medium to long-term strategy, a course that avoids repeating the mistakes of 2011. Your information, Minister, this route clearly indicates you, while clearing the field of misunderstandings, and here I want to say it: we must all be aware, although it is true that our country is the country that gave birth to the winner of this world prize for space bales, that when we discuss these issues we must do so with extreme seriousness and responsibility, because we cannot forget that everything we do, but also everything we say has consequences and we must know how to predict these consequences as well. That is why this is one of the moments in which we must strengthen unity in our country: the unity of politics, the unity of institutions, the unity of all the realities of our country and therefore have a clear path. Time is running out, Mr Minister, we and the international community as a whole must make a change of pace, and we must also strengthen the mandate that the United Nations Security Council will have to give to the special representative. I believe that it is important for this Security Council to take place today, following a request which, as you know, Italy has supported a great deal over time, also because the presence of ISIS at this time also requires the parties that have so far opposed Libya to find a minimum common denominator to defeat a common enemy and may also be an opportunity to pursue that objective that you rightly indicated. Just a few days ago a brave Libyan, after the attack at the hotel in Tripoli, declared: Our house has no doors or windows, so the devil has entered. Now we need to stick together as a family to drive the devil out. We need to support this with our initiative first of all, and from this point of view we have a fundamental role to play, dear Senator Centinario, as we have engaged in all the international missions that we continue to feel proud of, even in the name of those soldiers who are engaged in it and those who have lost their lives there. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] We must therefore feel ourselves in the front row in an initiative, ready therefore also to assume further responsibilities, but under conditions that make them sensible, effective and useful and in this sense it is clear that we must also have a political-diplomatic initiative that should be addressed above all to the countries involved in that area, to the neighbouring countries, beginning with Egypt. I would also like to use this opportunity to express to that country all our closeness and solidarity in the face of what has happened and the horrible images we have seen of the execution of those Coptic Christians, not by chance Christians, once again victims of terrorist crime. We must take action of this kind, we are in a position to do so, and I would like to say to you, Minister, that you, your Government, but above all Italy, can count on the extreme awareness and determination of the Parliamentary Group and of the whole Democratic Party. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u22	We greet the students of the Istituto Superiore (Higher Institute), James Clerk Maxwell, Milan, who follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u23	He asked President Napolitano to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u24	Mr President, I have asked for the floor to express my great appreciation for the statements made by the Foreign Minister, for the seriousness and balance of these statements. I also did this because I was kindly quoted for my role in the past years, including that of the weeks and days when it was decided that Italy would participate in a multilateral military initiative in the face of the situation in Libya. It is worth remembering that it was a joint action, it was a common assumption of responsibility, centered on who in our constitutional system had and has responsibility for decisions on foreign and defence policy, that is, the Government of the Republic. However, I would like to remind you that there was a very broad parliamentary consensus with the resolution adopted on March 18 by the Foreign and Defence Commissions of the Senate and Chamber, which was something very significant and important. Behind those Italian decisions, including parliamentarians as well as government, there had been the positions taken at the United Nations, in particular the adoption of the resolution of 17 March on the no - fly zone and, immediately to follow, the decisions that were taken by Italy. But as noted this morning in an article by Ambassador Stefanini (who until just before those events and those decisions had been for several years permanent representative of Italy to NATO), the free controversy about Italy's participation in NATO intervention in 2011 forget that not only the Berlusconi Government joined it on the basis of the authorisation of the UN Security Council, but that it was Italy itself to work to ensure that the operation, which began at the same time - let us not forget - from France and the United Kingdom, was entirely part of the political and military management of the Atlantic Alliance. A framework from which Italy - we all thought at the time, and I, too, as President of the Supreme Defence Council, which is not a decision-making body - could not in any way be alienated. Of course, even the broadest international legitimacy does not exclude that mistakes can be made, and I agree with what both Minister Gentiloni and President Casini have found: the mistake that is serious has consisted in a sort of disengagement of a large part of the international community in the post-military phase and in the fall, in the overthrow of the role of President Gaddafi. That we can now speak of a failed state raises some doubts in me, because I believe that, in the modern sense of expression, a state never existed in Libya: it was not a state that exercised the autocratic and personal power of President Gaddafi on the basis of a certain system of relations and balance with the multitude of tribes present in Libya and on the basis of a great power of popular persuasion due to the enormous liquidity available to the State and for it, in fact, President Gaddafi. Apart from that, I believe it is important what Ambassador Stefanini has said, because today the picture is even more complicated with regard to international legitimacy, which for Libya can still be said in proud as well as subject to unknown, and it is quite difficult to realize fully for weaknesses that we cannot deny in the most representative organization of the international community, namely in the United Nations Organization, which is very troubled in the face of the multiplicity of challenges and crises that currently cross the world. I believe it is absolutely right to say what Mr Gentiloni has said, and its clarity of intent and positions does not exclude the extreme problematic nature of the situation and the choices to be made. I see that there are even problems that someone is not entirely wrong about raising, namely the applicability in any case of Article 51 of the United Nations Charter, which solemnly recognizes the right to self-defense of each Member State. Could Italy be in a position tomorrow to resort to this solemn coverage of the Charter of the United Nations? I believe that we must be very careful and very serious, but it cannot be excluded that a concrete threat can come from the forces of ISIS that occupy a part of the Libyan territory, and above all we cannot exclude the need for a great vigilance as well as a great attention to everything that needs to be prepared so that Italy is able to do its part, if necessary, in a wider and collective area of intervention that becomes necessary. A statement that is first of all - it is useless to repeat - political and diplomatic, even if we know the news of all the attempts made by the representative of the United Nations Organization, integrated and supported by what was a splendid diplomatic representation of Italy in Tripoli until a few days ago, exactly until the well-deserved Ambassador Buccino Grimaldi believed that the conditions no longer existed for Italy to keep the embassy open in Tripoli. You see, ladies and gentlemen, I have said for some time now that I believe that for decades there has been no international situation so full of dangers, challenges and unknowns. It is not appropriate to list how many centres today are causing concern and alarm, the difficult situations to master, the extremely complicated crises to solve, but there is only to say that we cannot back down, as we did not back down in 2011, compared to what happens in Libya and to all the repercussions of the Libyan situation on Italy. The migratory flow, largely maneuvered and forced, to which Europe's responses are late or unsatisfactory has been mentioned for all, as has been shown in recent days. However, ladies and gentlemen, what is certain from this world of danger is that we cannot escape, we cannot escape, but we must do our duty. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE, SCPI and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u25	I declare closed the discussion on the information of the Government. I would like to thank Mr Gentiloni who has given us the opportunity to address this important and interesting issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u26	He asked the President of the 10th Permanent Commission, Senator Cucchetti, to report on the progress of the work of the Joint Industry and Environment Commissions on draft law No 1733. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u27	Mr President, I would like to ask your courtesy to allow the Commissions meeting 10a and 13a some more time to finish the work on the draft law to convert the so-called ILVA decree-law. We have almost completed the examination of the amendments, we still have two which deserve to be examined in conjunction with the work of the 5th Commission. We ask you, therefore, if it is possible to prolong the beginning of the examination of the ILVA decree-law by the Assembly at 3.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u28	Given that it would be a matter of interrupting this sitting, which should end at 1 p.m. an hour early and that we could make up for it by anticipating the afternoon sitting at 3.30 p.m., if there are no comments, I think we could take the sitting off.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u31	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, there are also other committees convened at that time, so I would say do not interrupt them; We must not interrupt the other Commissions and move the call of this House to have only one Commission work. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I know very well that there are other Commissions convened; the 5th Commission also planned hearings, but of course, in order to meet the requirements of the conversion of a decree-law, it will change its timetable and then postpone its work. This, of course, if you agree, otherwise we will have to proceed to the vote on this request for an advance at 3.30 p.m. of the afternoon sitting. MARTON (M5S). Mr President, I renew your invitation. The Commission must also bring together justice, which must carry out its work on the anti-corruption bill and I believe that you also have that measure at heart. Let's call in normally at 4:30 p.m. The Commissions will have plenty of time to work and the other Commissions will also be able to do so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We'll assess.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u34	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, what you are proposing in itself could also be acceptable. However, we are not happy with this approximation in the management of the work of the Senate Chamber. We cannot continue to work on the basis of improvisation. We had on schedule the provision on organ trafficking and the conclusion of the previous measure. We cannot work with this approximation, changing the agenda, adding or removing items on the calendar, with the Government not knowing whether it is ready and with the Commissions convened for further amendments. We do not agree with this way of doing this: there is a programming and we follow that. If the Government is not ready and wants to change the cards or put in other arguments, at least do so seriously, not asking the President of the Commission to have the work of the Assembly anticipate, causing other Commissions to be disconcerted that are obviously convened for their work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u37	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, at the last Conference of the Leaders, I was the only one who said that I did not want to force the ILVA decree into the Chamber today, because there would presumably be no time for it; all of you joined forces to say that it was not true and that it could have been done, but it is not possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Once we have said that it would be good to listen to each other once in a while, we believe that a change in the timetable must be brought back to the Conference of Leaders and not made in this way impromptu. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u38	If there had been no comments, it would have been possible to proceed, otherwise a vote by the Assembly could possibly replace the Conference of the Leaders. I would remind you that the timetable provided for the beginning of the examination of the ILVA Decree-Law, even if not concluded in the Commission. Since we are a step away from the conclusion and it has been requested only an hour, from the point of view of the economy of the works not to accept the request of President Cucchetti it seems to me to waste all the work previously done. That is my consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u41	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, at the meeting of the Leaders, I warned - and you know perfectly well - that there was such a situation that the 5th Commission would not have expressed its views: we are still in this situation, because there are still difficulties in the 5th Commission. It is not, therefore, that the Conference of the Leaders and you personally did not know that it would be difficult to think of exactly the time when the debate would begin. Having said that, I am very sorry that we have had to quit work on environmental crimes, because we could have kept voting for at least another hour or hour and a half today. Since the situation was clear, I therefore think that we can safely begin the afternoon sitting at 4.30 p.m., because I would not like the Commission's work to be completed at 3.30 p.m. Having said that, Mr President, as a Senate, we are very concerned about ensuring that our measures arrive at the House of Members in such a time as to enable the other branch of Parliament to examine them. I would like to point out, however, that we will not have the same treatment on the thousandprorogation decree. Therefore, as far as we are concerned, I propose that we keep the opening hours of the afternoon sitting at 4.30 p.m., as provided for in the current timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u44	TONINI (PD). Mr President, we propose that we hold the point at 3.30 p.m. at the beginning of the afternoon sitting. We are aware that this creates some problems for us and our colleagues in the Commissions. However, as always in these cases, priority must be chosen and at this moment the fact that we can deal with the decree with the necessary time is a priority for us. So we have to keep the point at the beginning of the afternoon sitting at 3.30 p.m.: that is our proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u47	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we understand that there are practical reasons for proposing a shift in working hours in a certain way, but given that, among other things, it seems quite obvious - they are rumors of corridor, but I think they are rather accredited and very plausible, given past experience - that the issue of trust will be raised on the ILVA decree, it is difficult to understand the need to anticipate the afternoon sitting. It would be more logical to let the Commissions work. I also agree with what Senator De Petris has said: while we work hard to get the measure to the House of Deputies on time, an extremely important measure, such as the one thousand-pronged decree, will arrive at the Senate in unsettling times, which will force us not even to be able to discuss its content in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u48	I am responding to this branch of Parliament, and I am therefore trying as much as possible, with your cooperation, to carry out our work within the time limits laid down. However, I must acknowledge all the groups that had asked for more time to debate and I must say that the 5th Commission has given all the opinions it had to give in time and only for two further amendments there must still be the expression of the opinion. If there is no agreement, then we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal to amend the timetable. Verification of CASTALDI (M5S) quorum. We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) [[Protests from the M5S Group. Comments of Senators Marton and Santangelo]] There are also those who are present and do not vote. The Senate has a quorum. SANTANGELO (M5S). Bravo! This is the idea of democracy that you have, Grasso: wait for the quorum and then close the verification. Bravo! [[Comments from the PD Group]] Resumption of the debate on the proposal to amend the agenda of the president's proceedings. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the agenda of the Assembly's proceedings, tabled by Senator Cucchetti, aimed at removing the afternoon sitting in progress and anticipating the beginning of the afternoon sitting at 3.30 p.m. Given the uncertainty of the outcome, I have the counterproof. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. (The vote was followed). It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-393.ana.u49	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 3.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 11.56 a.m.
