ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 14 January. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.04).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u6	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I asked to speak at the beginning of the sitting because I felt it was a moral duty to say some things in this House about what has happened in recent days, immediately after the release of the two girls Vanessa and Greta, in order to stigmatize everything that has happened and to express to them my solidarity, that of my Group and I believe of many senators and senators of this House. I am referring to the hundreds of evils that have been written, the infamies and illations that have led them to be defined in the most insulting way. And here I would like to stigmatize those who, on this matter and on the skin of two girls, have once again thought of making political propaganda easy and ignoble. I believe that we have come to an act - I do not know how to define it - by the Vice President of the Senate who, in this House, we cannot but stigmatize. Senator Gasparri on Twitter raised a question that alluded to so-called sexual complicity, following the insinuations that had been filmed heavily in the days and hours before, and did so by propaganda and continuing in a lynching work against the two girls. Madam President, I know that for the offices of Vice President and President no motions of distrust can be presented, but I believe it is our duty not only to stigmatize, but to condemn heavily and to arrive at a real form of political censorship. I believe that perhaps the Vice President of the Senate, who is not new to some of the Twitter releases, should at this point consider his moral duty not only to get away with it, as the last time, with official excuses (which are absolutely necessary), but to resign from his office, so as not to continue to compromise the credibility of this institution. [[Applause from Senator Puppato.]] These two girls may have been naive, but they were driven only by the desire to bring their help to suffering populations. And this concerns the many Italian volunteers who are in the places of conflict that no one talks about, who every day risk their lives to try to help the men, women and children who are unconscious victims of the conflicts. These volunteers honor our country. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and Mixed-MovX Groups.]] What happened with the infamous campaign of the last few hours I think is a disgrace to our entire country. I therefore think it was our duty to have a movement of rebellion in this House towards an infamous and propaganda campaign. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and Mixed-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u9	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, I would not have raised this issue, but Senator De Petris reminded me of the duty and the need to thank the Italian Government for the so positive action with which she brought back two girls who were held in the Syrian territories for more than five months. It was a very careful and precise job. I have to say that Parliament has also behaved well because, all this time, it has been very cautious. We, therefore, really owe their return to an action of our intelligence, our Government and Parliament: an action of a high level and of a high professional quality, as well as of political prudence. Senator De Petris also recalled Senator Gasparri's statements. I do not agree with those statements and I think they should not be made. As I have already done in this House, I therefore call on Senator Gasparri to exercise caution, especially on matters of such sensitivity. [[Applause from the PD, Mixed and Mixed SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u12	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, the 5 Star Movement is associated with the leader Loredana De Petris, who drew the House's attention to an unfortunate affair which once again involves a Vice President. It is a Vice President who, behind him, already has little upbuilding history: we start from last year with a story linked to a hypothesis of flaw, to proceed over time with a recent shameful tweet against a girl of only thirteen years. At the time, the 5 Star Movement had already asked this Presidency to find ways of giving this House dignity again and, therefore, to prevent Senator Gasparri from presiding over it. Today we find ourselves with another shameful tweet. I ask all colleagues to put themselves in the shoes of the parents of the two girls. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups and Senator Campanella]] and to try to feel the anger and anger that they may have felt at the news of the tweet, as well as the indignation and anger in reading, then, the interview appeared later on the Republic, which certainly is not intended to find, if possible - for us not possible - a worthy justification for that tweet, but, indeed, increases the dose. So today we find ourselves once again - and we hope for the last - to invite the Bureau to find ways to restore dignity to this House, to all of us, but above all to all of us as citizens. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed-SEL Groups and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u15	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, we have heard strong tones, which may not be appropriate to this House, as a vile political propaganda. I would like to express the idea of the League very clearly on the issue: we are not happy, but very happy that the two girls have returned home from their families. We know, however, that giving in to blackmail is essentially dangerous, because it will only feed, probably, further violence against other victims, potentially greater from the numerical point of view. The Italian Republic succeeded in defeating that phenomenon at the turn of the 1980s, the Red Brigades, taking a very firm position: not dealing with terrorists. This was the course of action that effectively defeated terrorism in our country. There is, then, another aspect: collaboration. Every Italian citizen cannot feel free to do what he believes and think that, then, there are always "mamma Repubblica" or "babo Stato" intervening. I come from mountain territories, the mountain is impervious and full of risks: we urge every person who adventures in the mountains to take all the precautions they need to face the risks and pitfalls that it reserves, except then intervene in any case, even if the wretches venture without the means, structures and equipment suitable to face the mountain. First we save them, but then we also ask them the bill and tell them that they cannot expect teams, rescues, helicopters and public money to be used for their negligence. I remind the Assembly that every Italian citizen, who wants to move around the world, finds on the site of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the famous area "Travel Safe." It is not a random site: it serves to prevent Italian citizens from finding themselves in exactly the difficulties of the two girls we are talking about. Therefore, we are very happy that they have returned home and are now with their family affections. The problem, however, remains and the line that a state must adopt cannot be a slalom, but it must be one and firm: either it is always with terrorists or it is never with terrorists. The League is for the second: it never deals with terrorists. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Martelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u18	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I understand that passion prevails many times in these matters and I myself have been involved in governments which have faced similar cases. In one case it was just two Italian girls held prisoner in Iraq and then there was the Sgrena case and others followed. I remember undersecretary Gianni Letta, who followed these events in particular. We and those who supported the majority and the government rejoiced then for those liberations and we can only rejoice again when, in continuity with the action of those governments, we observe that the current one did exactly the same thing that the previous ones were able to do at the time when the precious good that is human life was at stake. Regardless of a whole series of considerations that come after, there is first of all the need to do everything possible to save a human life. So, for consistency, all we can do is applaud this kind of initiative. I take note of the fact that, on the other hand, many times, even before these liberations, there is no shortage of polemics, as in fact they did not lack with regard to the Berlusconi government of that time (and often also lacked solidarity). I also remember a defiance of Italy, outside that and this season: I refer to the case of the maròs in India, a case that started badly. Perhaps those who managed the situation at that time were not able to operate with the professionalism that those governments and the current one have demonstrated. Having said that, it is clear that it remains a problem - as some colleagues have already said - regarding the ways, then as today, to be adopted in the scenarios of war, in the places where atrocities occur, in those situations in which, to move, we need great professionalism and coverage. It will be necessary and I do not say for the past, but at least for the future; that the responsible of the associations concerned calculates well the risks that must be faced. The Quirico case and the one in question of the two girls have been successfully concluded; but other cases that the news unfortunately every day shows us, related to hostages from other countries and also Italians - I remember Quattrocchi and another journalist brutally killed in Iraq - are proving that things do not always end well. The invitation, therefore, that I would like to address to everyone, in situations like these, is to bear in mind the national interest of Italy and our fellow countrymen, as well as to use sobriety when dealing with such sensitive issues.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u21	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Madam President, when I saw Mr De Petris raise his hand, I thought that this Parliament was dealing with much more important issues, which are now topical. It is not so topical a tweet by a senator, Senator Gasparri, on a matter on which we too welcome the fact that it has ended in the best possible way. Of course, we wonder why it happened. No one once would have allowed himself to kidnap Italian volunteers. No one would have allowed themselves to be imprisoned by Italian soldiers who had precise rules of engagement. No one would have allowed themselves to go to a satirical newspaper to throw bombs. And that's because there used to be politics, the art of mediation and dialogue. Today, January 19, 2015, is the fifteenth anniversary of the death of a great Italian, Bettino Craxi, who was murdered in foreign land. At that time, he was able to dialogue with the various ideologies that also existed at international level and Italy was respected at international level: no one would have allowed himself to come to undermine Italian interests, as it was done instead. I therefore believe, Madam President and dear colleague Zanda, that today we had to focus on who, in 1992, brought the Italian Communist Party into the Socialist International (of course it was a mistake, because they were not yet prepared). In short, today we had to talk about politics, not gossip, about issues that concern not this Parliament but the news. That's why today, on the 15th anniversary, I want to remember with a slogan, as I already did to Hammamet: ==References====External links== [[Senator Barani wears a t-shirt with the words: "Je suis Craxi"]] , because with this title... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Comments from PD and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u22	Thank you, Senator Barani.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u25	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, of course I do not agree with Senator De Petris' proposal, while I welcome Senator Zanda's call for caution, which I think should concern both the use of social networks and volunteering in risky territories. [[Comments from PD and Mixed-SEL Groups]] Of course, if anyone was offended by the fact that a question was turned around (I understand what Senator De Petris literally said), because this was the case, I apologise to those who felt offended. As far as the ransoms, the kidnappings and the terrorism are concerned, I shall retain my arguments that we shall discuss in the places of this House, and certainly not at this time. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u26	The next item is the report by the Minister for Justice on the administration of justice. After the Minister's speech, the debate will take place, the timing of which has been decided by the Conference of Presidents of the Groups. I call the Minister for Justice, Mr Orlando.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in this House I have the honour to present the Annual Report on the Administration of Justice and the lines of action which inspire the action of the Ministry and the Government. I would like to begin by thanking the President emeritus of the Republic of Giorgio Napolitano. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Buemi, Susta and D'Ascola]] In fact, his valuable work as guarantor of the institutional balance and his constant attention to the issues of justice have, in recent years, constituted an extraordinary source of inspiration and a stimulus to address with determination the most problematic aspects of this delicate sector. Your work and your suggestions, I believe, can continue to be a strong encouragement for the continuation of the reform measures that we have undertaken during this year. The organization and administration of justice have represented, and in many respects continue to represent, the ground of a bitter political clash, which for a long time prevented the necessary reforms aimed at ensuring the efficiency of a fundamental service for the life of a country. The more the debate has taken place and there has been a clash in recent years around this issue, the more one has allowed his most serious dysfunctions to become chronic ills. In this way, justice has become, for our citizens and our businesses, not the sphere to turn to to see the rights guaranteed or to give protection to their legitimate interests, not the dimension where even the weakest among the citizens can find shelter from the abuses of the strongest, but the symbol of a Calvary to keep as far away from their lives as possible, and this despite the value of the professionalism and skills that operate in the service. Of all this it was the country that made the expenses: today, in fact, the malfunction of the judicial system represents - according to everyone, but above all according to those who look at us from outside - one of the biggest boulders on the road to growth. My hope - and it is in this spirit that I address this House and all the political forces present here - is that this season can be said to be closed and that, thanks to the contribution of all, while fully respecting the political differences and the normal distinction between majority and opposition, we can succeed together in attacking the evils that make our judicial system one of the elements of weakness in our country. With this spirit I have worked from the beginning, making the method of dialogue a fundamental element for my action and addressing immediately those that, unanimously, were considered the most serious emergencies, in particular the prison, the start of the mandatory telematic civil process and the demolition of the civil backwardness. From the outset, I have intended to co-ordinate the reform work by promoting the necessary complementarity between regulatory and organisational innovation interventions. This, moreover, is an issue on which I have repeatedly insisted in recent months, convinced that our order is often rich in good rules, but not always supported by adequate organizational tools and the necessary resources, and for this reason often ineffective. In these months, I have tried to draw the standards from practical experience gained in the organizational field, the result of good practice imagined and realized by some of our judicial offices, and, from the beginning, an informed method was adopted to a constant comparison on the whole of the proposals for reform. Full, in fact, has been the involvement of the judiciary and the lawyer, the administrative staff and the prison police, all the operators of the justice service and their representatives, in the numerous tables and working groups that I have promoted during these months. In order to avoid, however, that the work of comparison and elaboration of the reform was limited to the point of view of the only actors operating in the justice system, from the first steps of my work I tried to give voice to the point of view of those who of the justice service in question are the main recipients: citizens and businesses. The dialogue with the political forces and with the relevant Commissions, in which a continuous comparison between the Government's proposals and those developed in Parliament, has also been maintained. Since, at the end of my speech, I will submit complete documentation on the state of justice, I will concentrate today's presentation on the most important points of the interventions we have taken so far and which, at the time, I have already indicated in the policy lines in the Justice Commission. The visit of European Commission Vice President Jyrki Katainen, who, on behalf of the Commission, acknowledged the goodness of our reforms in civil matters, is recent. The civil justice system is the perfect example of a reform which will certainly have a positive impact in creating a more business-friendly environment and which will attract sustainable investment. With these words the Vice President wanted to recognize the effort that Italy is making in this area. This is a very encouraging judgment, in my opinion, which comes after the same positive judgements of the two European Commissioners in the field of justice that have taken place in the last year. The reform consists of measures affecting the whole system as a whole. However, it has been decided to take on a number of priorities and to start with civil justice, a subject that has been absent from the public debate for twenty years. We have, in fact, witnessed a political controversy totally centered around criminal justice, indeed around the impact that it can have on the institutional life of the country. This is why we decided to start with civil justice, because it represents the daily ground of contact between the citizen and the administration of justice and its inefficiency weighs, decisively and directly, on the collapse of the sense of legality, on the distrust in the judicial system and in the various subjects that make up the jurisdiction. We have decided to start with civil justice because, in the serious economic crisis in which we find ourselves, we must have the ambition to remove all those inefficiencies that become an obstacle to the free initiative of citizens and businesses, those contradictions and the uglyness that make the relationships between private and more exposed to arbitrariness the weak. We must and we want to do this in order to prevent the State from giving way to other subjects, not always placed in the beehive of legality, in the resolution of conflicts. This is the drift that can risk constituting the real privatization of justice: the inability to ensure, through the entities legitimized by the State, the recognition of rights, by regressing society and the market to the brutal law of the strongest. Subsidiarity and cooperation between jurisdictional bodies are - in my opinion - the only way to reaffirm, in a season of scarcity of resources and growth of the demand for justice, a renewed centrality of public jurisdiction, a centrality realized in concrete, rather than affirmed in abstract. The analysis of the files pending at 30 June 2014 shows a volume of proceedings of 4.898.745, with a decrease of 6.7 percent of the files opened at the same date as the previous year. For the first time since 2009, the total figure has fallen below the threshold of 5 million pending cases. This decrease is also recorded for each type of office (courts of appeal, ordinary courts and for minors and judges of peace), while the slopes at the Court of Cassation show a slight increase. In particular, for the court of appeal and for the courts for minors, there are the most marked decreases (less 9.8 percent and less 7.3 percent respectively). These figures, while taking into account a trend of constant decline in backwardness from 2009 to the present day, show that, however, the level of the workload of the courts remains high: this circumstance, which inevitably results in a departure in time of the justice response to citizens and businesses. We intervened for this with Decree-Law No 132 of 2014, with which, in order to obtain an immediate reduction in the number of trials, a choice was made in favour of instruments of out-of-court definition of disputes, in particular arbitration and negotiation assisted by lawyers, as well as divorce and consensual separation before the mayor. For the first time you bet on the cooperation of lawyers, seen as an active part of the settlement of disputes. For this reason, I believe that the implementation of the legal order is deeply intertwined with this measure. In fact, it places the prerequisites for the evolution of the function and role of the lawyer. The reform is, in fact, a challenge for all of us and calls each of us to the need for change. It is a challenge especially for the subjects of the jurisdiction, for which it constitutes an extraordinary stimulus to evaluate the topicality of their structures and to take consequently initiatives of self-form. It is an occasion for the magistrates, for the lawyering, for the judicial staff and for all the subjects that, in various ways, make up the justice system. I don't think anyone can call themselves outside; no one can feel or say they are foreign to this process; no one can point their finger at the inefficiencies of others without first examining their own. I have tried to follow this approach, starting precisely from the reorganization of the Ministry, about which I will speak shortly. Again with a view to making civil justice efficient, measures have been taken to discourage late payments and reckless disputes, through an increase in the rate of interest on the slope of judgment and the fiscality of cases of compensation for disputes. In order to strengthen the protection of the credit, there has been an intervention on the executive process, allowing the creditor a faster and more effective identification of the assets of the debtor to be foreclosed, that can be searched through access also to public databases. On 29 August last, the Council of Ministers approved a draft law concerning the delegation to the Government, with provisions for the efficiency of the civil process, the result of the work of a commission chaired by President Berruti, which moves along four fundamental lines: specialization of the offer of justice, through the extension of the competences of the court of the enterprise and the institution of the court of the family and of the persons; acceleration of the times of the civil process, rationalizing the procedural terms, simplifying the rites, giving a central role to the first hearing, strengthening the character of the appeal appeal, accelerating the time of the judgment in cassation through a more widespread use of the chamber rite; introduction of the principle of syntheticity of the acts of part and of the judge; adaptation of the procedural rules to the civil telematic process. The strengthening of the corporate court allows to offer a more reliable and rapid reference to the companies intending to invest in our country. Organisation is a topic that rarely fascinates the media and political debate, but it is a fundamental aspect in the process of changing justice, in order to ensure a better and more efficient service. We have therefore taken many measures in this area; first of all - I said - the scheme of organization of the Ministry of Justice, with which we reduce from 61 to 37 the directors-general and we operate a further decrease in the number of managers of non-general level, with a total saving of expenditure estimated at more than 64 million euros. We redesign the architecture of fundamental structures and ministerial functions, introducing greater transversality and integration of skills and professionalism and adapting the organization to normative innovations. I am thinking, for example, of the issue of external criminal enforcement and the unification of the management of goods and services for all ministerial bodies. In this context, it is important that a single Directorate-General should be given jurisdiction in the matter of litigation and that a single Directorate-General should have competence in the matter of contractual procedures of the Ministry. By decree-law No 90 of 24 June 2014, the office of the trial was promoted. By using good practice already implemented in some judicial offices, the possibility of adopting organizational structures with qualified staff, in support of the Magistrate's work and in support of the processes of innovation, including technology, of judicial offices has been envisaged. In the office of the trial there are both staff of chancellor and young people who carry out training or vocational training. We are also implementing this legislation with the allocation of appropriate resources for trainees from the resources of the Single Justice Fund (FUG). A new tool of knowledge of the backward, to better address it, has been developed by the Department of Judicial Organisation. This is the Strasbourg 2 project, which aims to carry out an X-ray of the backwardness of civil justice and to offer a method of support to judicial offices, in order to make the ultra-three-year backwardness disappear from judicial statistics. With regard to organisational measures, it is also important to mention the results of the reform of judicial geography. I have continued the work undertaken by my predecessors, taking forward this choice, which represents a conquest in terms of greater rationality. Of the total 1,398 offices of first instance existing before the reform, 946 were abolished (30 courts, 30 prosecutors, 220 branches detached and 666 offices of the judge of peace), corresponding to 68 percent of the total. This year's work has focused, as we know, on completing the reform, especially with regard to the offices of the peace judge. The result of a long and complex investigation phase, has therefore been the identification of the seats maintained, with charges charged to the local authorities applicants, with a ministerial decree of 10 November last year. As a result of the revocation of the application or of the revocation for non-compliance with the prescribed requirements, of the aforementioned 285 seats identified by Ministerial Decree 7 March 2014, only 201 have been confirmed. However, further integration of this network is possible in accordance with the guidelines that the legislator would like to give. At the outcome of the follow-up work on the overall reform that ended last June, I arranged for the start of a comprehensive review focused on identifying the effects on the offices, in terms of saving expenditure and increasing organisational efficiency, also aimed at the revision of organic plants of administrative and judicial staff. This phase will be opened as soon as possible, including with the necessary cooperation of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. It cannot have innovation without attention to virtuous practices and without support for the most relevant projects that have emerged from them. It will therefore continue with the programming of best practice projects for 2014-2020. An absolute novelty will be the management of European funds: for the first time in its history, in fact, the Ministry of Justice will be the center of coordination of the structural funds, with which it will be guaranteed the possibility of managing fundamental projects, among which the diffusion of proximity points for the citizen, especially in the territories concerned by the revision of judicial geography, the support to the office for the process and the start of the planning for the telematic criminal process, next inevitable frontier of the judicial organization. The mandatory electronic civil process, starting from 30 June 2014, was certainly one of the most important innovations of the past year. It is the very concept of process management that is being modified. The use of technology involves a different way of holding the hearing, a different way of working for judges, lawyers and chancellors. Processes of modernising the service to users and information transparency are introduced, through the portal of the national justice services, which allows anyone to consult online twenty-four hours a day of their computer file and its specific content. The results obtained in the current year are absolutely positive and I communicate the most important ones: 1,206,199 the deposits of lawyers and other professionals, with a percentage increase compared to the previous year of 400 percent; 1,582,199 the deposits of the magistrates in 2014, of which more than 140,000 are the digital sentences. There is a significant reduction in the timing of the issuance of the injunctions; I quote 60% of the reduction of the time in Rome, the 51% reduction in Catania and the 43% reduction in Milan, to bring only a few examples. The start of the telematic civil process was accompanied by regulatory measures, with Decree-Law No. 90 of 2014, which facilitated the telematic management of the process. I am thinking of the power of attorneys to authenticate the acts, the removal of the obligation to sign the witness at the hearing and some provisions that facilitate the telematic notifications of lawyers' own. A more organic reform of the telematic civil process, repeatedly called for by the lawyer, with adaptations of the code of law to the legislation on telematic flows in the process is certainly one of the objectives that we intend to pursue in the near future. The choice of the telematic civil process has proved to be a source of cost-saving and above all, I would like to emphasize it, the engine of a positive cultural change, having triggered virtuous processes of collaboration between the various territorial components of the lawyering, the judiciary and the administrative staff, subjects to which it must be recognized here the ability to have accepted this challenge and to have operated to win it. We will continue with advanced computerization also for the criminal, where they started the online criminal notifications last 14 December, with good response from the offices involved. I paid particular attention immediately to the administrative staff, who with his daily work helps to ensure the proper functioning of the offices, dealing with objective local critical issues. The unhappiness of the present situation, caused by a prolonged and severely unfavourable economic situation, has led to a process of progressive ageing of our administrative staff: this situation certainly requires rapid action. The data at the end of 2014 unfortunately speak clearly: the staff in force to the administration counts 35,625 units, on an organic endowment of 43,702, with a cover of 18.48 percent, slightly mitigated to 17.85 percent, if we consider in the calculation the situation of the commanded staff. In order to reverse this process, however, we have started to operate: thanks to the intra-group mobility procedure, 71 administrative staff were acquired in the three-year needs plan for 2014. In the next few days the call for the opening of procedures for recruitment in extra-compartmental mobility of 1,031 units will also be published. I believe, however, that all our efforts must now be directed towards finding the resources necessary for the recognition of the skills acquired and the fundamental role played by the staff in the role of the justice service. The confrontation with the lawyer was one of the most characterized traits in these first ten months of the Government. The opening of tables of confrontation with the National Council forensics and the lawyering associated, for the implementation of the regulations of the forensic reform is a choice that I strongly wanted, making the Ministry an open place for dialogue and fruitful exchange of experiences. I have already said how I consider this activity to be one with the overall reform process. The decrees are already published on the parameters for the liquidation of the compensations and on the method of election of the members of the councils of the forensic district orders. The regulation on the attainment and maintenance of the title of specialist lawyer has received all the opinions requested and will be dismissed shortly by the Ministry. Regulations concerning the forms of advertising of the code of conduct, the forms of advertising for the start of state examinations and the approval of the profession, the procedures for determining the effective exercise of the profession, are concluding the process of adoption. On the whole issue of legal training and access to the profession, I started a discussion with the Ministry of University and Research. Finally, the regulations governing the procedures for carrying out the traineeship and for access to the profession will be transmitted for the prescribed opinions within the period of February 2015 provided for by law. In this respect, we can therefore say that, during the months of my term of office, the objective has been achieved of fully implementing such important legislation on the functioning of the forensic profession. Particular attention has been paid to ensuring that expenditure is rationalised without missing support for ongoing reforms. In fact, while having to make the required cuts to all the ministries under the 2014 spending review measures, it has chosen not to adopt cuts for the field of computer science, field to which, on the contrary, they have been destined, in the year-end distribution of the FUG, ulterior 7.5 million euros. The Stability Act for 2015 provides for the establishment of a new fund for the computerization of civil process and the efficiency of offices, in which, for the three years, resources for a total amount of 260 million euros have been earmarked. We will then have an immediate availability of FUG resources; This, which will allow a more rational management of expenditure with proper programming, which can take place at the beginning and not at the end of the calendar year. With a view to transparency, we have published on the Ministry's website the distribution of FUG resources, thus making manifest the objectives and criteria adopted. Action in the area of criminal justice was, firstly, aimed at strengthening the instruments to combat the most serious forms of crime, in particular the mafia phenomenon, economic crimes and, last but not least, with exceptional urgency and seriousness, the issue of strengthening the mechanisms for preventing and combating international terrorism has been raised. Particularly felt is the need for a more effective fight against corruption, a criminal phenomenon that judicial investigations show to have reached intolerable dimensions, also because of its interweaving with organised structures of the mafia type. Action has therefore been taken to improve the means of preventing and suppressing a phenomenon which has devastating effects on both the economic and the public's confidence in the institutions. It was proposed to raise edittal limits for corruption offences, with the result that the time for judicial investigation was extended. In addition, in order to ensure as much as possible that the price and profit of the most serious crimes against the public administration are always the subject of recovery for the purposes of confiscation, it has been provided as a condition for the admissibility of the plea or for the issue of sentence to predetermined sentence the full return of the price or profit of the crime. In order to strengthen the prevention action was then provided as mandatory the information to the president of the National Anti-Corruption Authority (NAAC) in relation to the exercise of the prosecution. I believe that the role of the DAC, which is finally in full condition to operate, will make the state's ability to combat corruption ever more efficient. I believe, in fact, that, beyond the aforementioned, targeted and limited revision of certain instruments of criminal repression, the real challenge in combating these phenomena is the work of prevention. In fact, there is an absolute need for action to combat all those improper mediation mechanisms which, in the folds of powers that derogate or excessively discretionary, represent the real scourge in which the phenomenon of corruption and the infiltration of criminal organizations into institutions and public administration are involved. The protection of markets, free competition and renewed confidence in investment, also from abroad, have led to the redefinition of the so-called fake in the budget, strengthening its indictment according to offensive criteria. It is a crucial issue in the fight against the most serious forms of economic crime, and I hope that Parliament's debate can develop fruitfully, contributing to the search for balanced and effective solutions. The Government's proposal, approved on 29 August and which we have today transformed into government amendments to the text already in force in the Senate, intends to consider the conduct of counterfeiting as an illegal of danger, raising the penalties to ensure the deterrent of the sanction and the effectiveness of the investigations. These are the lines of proposal that the Government is submitting to a parliamentary debate which I hope will soon be concluded. In addition, amendments have been proposed to the substantive and procedural legislation aimed at completing the apparatus of prevention and repression of the most serious forms of crime, including economic ones, through the tightening of penalties for crimes of association for criminals of the mafia type and the strengthening of the crucial instrument of so-called confiscation by equivalent. The latter instrument has also been extended to third parties and, in cases of extension of crime for any cause, it applies to heirs. We have also proposed specific measures to protect and protect victims of crime, with particular attention to those of the mafia, terrorism or massacre. The need for a strengthening of the contrast to the phenomenon of illegal accumulation of wealth has found a first fundamental expression in the introduction of the crime of autocycling, which is already the law of the State. This is an important innovation, which breaks down a traditional prohibition of indictment and is an instrument that not only allows the phenomenon of the infiltration of illicit capital into the legal economy but also to pursue the economic effects of illegal conduct, even long after they have occurred. Also in the same direction, I believe we should mention the parliamentary process in progress of the draft law on the fight against environmental crime, which is currently being discussed in the Senate, for which I hope - once again - that we will soon adopt it. The framework is complemented by the organic reform of the procedural discipline of judicial cooperation in criminal matters, which has long been awaited to ensure effective cooperation between States in the repression of criminal organisations with an increasingly transnational character. Rules are being prepared, in collaboration with the Ministry of the Interior, to update the current regulation of regulatory instruments in the field of the prevention and repression of terrorist phenomena, in particular those of international origin. The growing threat of international terrorism urgently calls for a review of the effectiveness of the current regulatory framework, with a view to strengthening the systems of prevention and repression on this very sensitive front. This recognition has also been promoted by Italy in the European context, as part of the six-month Presidency of the Council. In this context, it seems unavoidable to introduce new measures aimed at implementing selective and more stringent controls on the means and materials that could be used to carry out attacks on national territory and to facilitate the application of personal prevention measures against potential foreign fighters. Similarly, in terms of the effectiveness of the instruments of repression, the idea of introducing centralised instruments for coordinating investigations into terrorism is now shared and matured. A choice of this kind also appears to be useful for the identification of a unitary and adequately informed interlocutor on the international judicial cooperation front, in the context of an organic development of an ever-increasing need for European policy and the fight against international terrorism. I believe that the potential of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, specifically Article 86, which provides for the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor, and paragraph 4 of the same Article, which provides for the possibility of extending the powers of the European Public Prosecutor, in addition to the offences affecting the Union's financial interests, to the fight against serious crime, which has a transnational dimension, should be fully exploited. I will then come back to reflect on the work of the Italian Presidency of the Union, but here I would like to stress that, precisely this area - which has been one of the key points of our action - we intend to continue our work, starting a strong dialogue with the two Presidencies that are part of our trio, the Latvian one and the Luxembourg one, as well as with the other European partners, to place the issue of the fight against organised crime and international terrorism as one of the qualifying points of the new European Public Prosecutor. I believe that this is an issue of great impact, which can help to make the Union's role stronger and closer to its citizens, as well as providing all countries with a fundamental level of coordination in the fight against these phenomena. The past year was also the occasion of an important anniversary for our country: the anniversary of the work "Dei delitti e delle peni" by Cesare Beccaria, a great Italian thinker, among the best known in the world. Aware of this important legacy, incarnated nobly also by our constituent Fathers, the philosophy of action of my Ministry is intended to bring back the criminal law in its natural beehive of instrument to be used where other sanctions prove ineffective to prevent or discourage a phenomenon. Freedom and security march together and, if it is true that we must be hard and firm against every crime, we must also be able to build an effective and at the same time capable of reintegrating the deed into the civil assembly. Criminal justice is an issue in which slogans have often done more harm than they denounced, because slogans simplify, ideologicalize the approach to problems and prevent them from being dealt with together by holding principles and pragmatism. The absence of this approach is in many areas one of the largest in our country in comparison to the other nations. Parliament's delegation for the exclusion of criminality has recently been implemented in particular on the basis of the criteria of the integrity of the offence and the lack of customary behaviour in relation to the crime specifically the subject of the judgment. It is - I would like to remind you - an instrument invoked by the judiciary, by the doctrine and by the lawyer, which has nothing to do with decriminalization and which will allow a deflation of the criminal process according to readable and transparent criteria, which will be even better specified after the passage into the parliamentary committees, avoiding that this selection is made in a creeping way, with less transparency also for the victims, with the macero of the prescription. In order to ensure the effectiveness of the criminal policies of the State, there has been a reform of the prescription aimed at improving the link between the time of the trial and the time of extinction of the crime. Without prejudice to the defensive guarantees, the aim is to discourage merely delaying the conduct of the parties and to ensure reasonable time for the process to take place. In order to safeguard fundamental freedoms and in line with European indications, the exploitation of defensive rights in the investigation phase is envisaged through the restriction, for example, of the presumptions of prohibition for the arrested to confer with the defender. The reorganization of the defense of office, arranged with the law of stability, also presides over the effectiveness of the role of the defender, requiring adequate professionalism to those who access this delicate office. Deflatory aims of the judicial burden must be ensured through the encouragement of forms of rapid and early definition of the process, strengthening the institution of the so-called plea and supporting the conviction at the request of the accused as a form of agreed definition of the trial. In this context, it is essential to reform the appeal judgment, giving it the prevailing function of instrument of control of the judgment at first instance and the rationalization of the cases of recorribilità per Cassazione. Turning to the subject of prison, I would like to remind you of the fruitful dialogue with Parliament which, on this very subject, began at the start of my term of office. This dialogue was animated by the role of impulse and leadership of the President of the Republic, who gave voice to the constitutional dictation throughout the period of his Presidency in order to define, with the message to the Chambers of 8 October 2013, a moral imperative: to intervene decisively to overcome the crisis of the prison system. It is this dialogue that has allowed us to overcome the crisis of credibility caused by the Torreggiani affair which, as is well known, has seen Italy condemning for violation of Article 3 of the European Charter of Human Rights in the part where it places the prohibition of inhuman and degrading treatment in the detriment of prisoners. Over the past twenty-five years, security policies have often been geared towards strengthening sanctioning instruments. The emergence of new and widespread social insecurities has sometimes found a response only in criminal repression, giving priority to the idea that increasing penalties could guarantee greater security. The calls from the European Court of Human Rights and the President of the Republic have provided an extraordinary stimulus for a different vision. The new strategy, the result of the work of the last governments and Parliament, meets the recommendations of the Council of Europe in favour of community sanctions, penalties that not only cover the segregation of the condemned by the civil consortium, but also have the objective of recovering the relationship and the relationship between the offender and the social context. With this in mind, alternative measures to detention have been strengthened and expanded. To support this development, the offices dealing with external criminal execution, in the reorganisation work that I have started, will be placed in a new department, together with the offices of juvenile justice, which have already gained on the ground of the probation a great experience and remarkable ability to implement alternative paths to detention. The various measures of the Government aimed at reducing the incoming flows and increasing alternative measures to detention and putting in place the remedies required by the European Court of Human Rights, have been accompanied by an important legislative activity of parliamentary initiative. The completion of this plan - and this is my wish - calls for the rapid approval of the reform of protective custody in Parliament, which will be able to contribute to the numerical stability of the system. The effects of the legislative measures adopted can be easily deduced, firstly, by the significant decrease in the number of prisoners in prison. As of December 31, 2014, the prisoners present in Italian prisons were 53,623, given by now stabilized for a few months; in December 2013, they were 62,536, while at the time of the sentence by the European Court there were 66,000 and in the course of 2010 there were almost 70,000 presences. At the same time, alternative measures to detention have increased to 31,962 as at 31 December 2014. I would ask Parliament - and now specifically the Senate - to look carefully at the combined arrangement of these two figures. We managed, in fact, to overcome the emergency without significantly reducing the total number of subjects treated, between prison and alternative measures; the decrease of the former was accompanied by the simultaneous increase of the latter, keeping the total number stable. I say this to answer with the numbers to those who have repeatedly spoken of indult masked. These numbers tell us more. We have not given up the penalty: we have decided to apply a different penalty. This has led to a steady decline in prisoners, without having to resort to exceptional measures. The strengthening of alternative measures and sanctions to prison is a courageous but necessary way to respond, effectively and truly, to the security needs of citizens. The awareness of the substantial reduction in the risk of recurrence through measures other than prison, whenever possible, in fact improves the security system and leads to substantial reductions in economic and social costs. The decrease in the number of prisoners awaiting trial at first instance, from 11.108 to December 2013, to 9.549 to 31 December 2014, is of particular importance. The percentage of inmates awaiting first instance has fallen to 18% of the total number of inmates, while the percentage of inmates awaiting first grade and not final has fallen to 33%; when Italy was condemned by the ECHR it was more than 40%. At the same time, the total number of prisoners in custody increased from 24,409 in December 2013 to 18,475 in December 31, 2014. In 2010 alone, there were 30,184 inmates awaiting trial in the first instance. Significant is the decrease in the number of foreign prisoners, also thanks to the impulse deriving from international agreements to facilitate the execution of the sentence in the country of origin. Since the beginning of my term of office, I have put a great deal on this lever to deflate the presences in prison of foreign inmates. I went to Rabat to sign two conventions with the Kingdom of Morocco: one on judicial assistance and extradition, the other on the transfer of Moroccan convicted prisoners, one of the largest communities in our prisons. Always to give impetus to possible solutions and to speed up the procedures for the transfer of foreign prisoners, in accordance with the guarantees provided by the law, I met all the prosecutors general, with whom we shared the need to intensify efforts for an effective application of the instruments of cooperation, aimed at the transfer of prisoners to the countries of origin. Moreover, following the amendment of the legislation on expulsion directly from prison, a fruitful collaboration has developed between the penitentiary administration and the immigration offices of the Ministry of the Interior, in order to immediately identify irregular foreigners who enter prison, avoiding further passages within the identification and expulsion centers. In view of the substantial decrease in prisoners, carried out in the manner I have described, the increase in the capacity of prisons, which at 31 December 2014 reached 49,635 posts, should be highlighted. The vastness of the building heritage and the need for restructuring, adaptation and modernisation of the institutions still make it impossible to use 4,500 places. Also in order to recover as much ground as possible on the usability of spaces and the necessary adaptation of the structures and in order to better develop the treatment activities aimed at reeducation, the experience of the government Commissioner for the penitentiary building has been closed in advance, returning directly to the administration the task of intervening according to the strict directives adopted by me and oriented to the increase of the available places and the implementation of the spaces to be allocated to the life in common and to the work of the prisoners. In addition to imposing the removal of the structural causes of the prison overcrowding, also assuming the predisposition of preventive remedies able to promptly remove the prisoner to a situation of compression of the conventional law, the judgment Torreggiani has called the State to the duty to repair the violations committed, through a refreshment to those who have already suffered the violation of their rights. A compensatory remedy has been developed by Decree-Law No 92 of 26 June 2014, recognising the right to financial compensation or, alternatively, for those who are still detained, the right to a reduction in the detention sentence still to be atoned, to an extent equal to 10% of the period during which the penitentiary treatment was inhuman or liable to violate the provision of Article 3 of the European Charter of Human Rights. It is the responsibility of the supervisory judiciary to ensure the effectiveness of remedies, guiding the interpretation of the new discipline in accordance with constitutional and supranational principles. In order to allow for the best possible implementation of the law, a permanent table was opened with the judiciary for the sharing of solutions in relation to the compliances deriving from the recent regulatory interventions in the field of preventive and compensatory remedies. On the basis of the data available today, it is estimated that the filing of the 3,685 appeals to the Court of Strasbourg will save more than EUR 42 million. I would like to say that the initiatives and efforts of the Government, Parliament and the judiciary (the oversight in particular), the CSM and the penitentiary administration have produced objective positive results. Special thanks must be paid to the women and men of the prison police, who have with great effort and professionalism collaborated effectively to the overcoming of the emergency phase. The recognition of this, made by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, I hope will follow Parliament's positive view. However, the commitment to change the detention system cannot be considered to be exhausted. The government has already asked Parliament for the delegation for a coherent and organic reform of the prison system. In this perspective, a new phase has already begun. The Ministry intends to give a renewed impetus to projects and actions that are worth filling the meaning and time of the prison sentence, through joint activities, work, cultural activities and education. There is a need to build new realistic pathways for social inclusion which are necessary to reduce relapse and thus increase the security of citizens. The path is already started also through a table of confrontation with the Ministry of Labour and social policies, to arrive in a short time to a revisiting of the subject of prison work regulated by norms no longer current. I have also given the greatest impetus to make more rational and strategic use of European funds and more transparent use of those managed by the fines fund. In the coming weeks, the general states will be called upon to take part in the prison, and I will call for all the institutional and social energies necessary to initiate a profound process of change. In order to promote this change, from the outset I have sought and obtained the cooperation of all regional institutions. Eleven operational protocols have now been concluded with a view to increasing access to alternative detention measures for prisoners with drug-related problems and to strengthening the pathways of social inclusion and reintegration of prisoners into work. They concern Tuscany, Emilia-Romagna, Umbria, Lazio, Liguria, Campania, Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Puglia, Sicily, Lombardy and Abruzzo; soon protocols will be concluded with the Molise and Piedmont Regions. The same effort must be put in place by the Regions to strengthen the protection of the health of the people excluded, including measures to prevent suicide and self-harm, but the framework would not be complete if I did not mention the next activation of the National Guarantor of the prisoners, who will deal precisely with this matter. With regard to the issue of judicial psychiatric hospitals, the overcoming of this model has unfortunately been extended due to the complexity of the procedures necessary for the regions to implement the replacement health structures. The impact of the legislative innovations on the OPGs is constantly monitored through the detection of the presences of the internees in the OPGs throughout the national territory and through an analysis of the orders issued by the judicial authority, and this in order to detect the conditions of permanent danger of the internees, confirming or withdrawing in reason of this the security measures. It should be noted that, following the entry into force of the law, there has been a slight but constant decrease in attendance. At the date of October 31, 2014, the inmates were 780, compared to the 880 present at the date of January 31, 2014, given even more important when compared to that of 2010, in which there was the presence of 1,448 inmates. The agreements reached with the Unified Conference are being fully adhered to and in compliance with the institutional cooperation established over the years with the Regions, mental health departments and the judiciary. The Ministry of Health has set up the coordinating body for the overcoming of OPGs. The aim is to avoid further delays and arrive within the time limits set for the final closure of psychiatric judicial hospitals. I described in this speech the whole of the reform. I believe that a work of great transformation of justice would not have the necessary organicity if, in addition to the objective of strengthening the security of citizens and economic activities, the certainty and timeliness of decisions, also the protection of positions injured by an erroneous exercise of jurisdiction. The Government's legislative proposal is based on an objective necessity: to respond to an infringement procedure opened by the European Commission which concerns the issue of the violation of Community law by the courts and the consequent responsibility of the State. But this intervention cannot escape a further question: does the current rules on civil liability guarantee effective protection for the citizen? From the data collected from the first application of the law until the end of 2010 it appeared that of the more than 400 cases proposed only 34 exceeded the screening of eligibility and, of the latter 34, 18 had been decided, among which only four cases where there had been a condemnation of the State. These are numbers that speak clearly and that reveal an objective deficit of effectiveness in the protection of citizens injured by the exercise of judicial activity. It is always from the perspective of the protection of the citizen that the Government has opposed any hypothesis of civil responsibility structured in such a way as to produce phenomena of judicial conformism. That being said, would it really be desirable to have a discipline that would leave civil liability solely to the State? Would this benefit the prestige of jurisdiction and who exercises it? I honestly don't think so. Hence the search for a fair balance, which guarantees the broadest and most effective protection of the citizen by the State and which, instead, causes the revenge against the magistrate in the cases of his inexcusable negligence or malice. This mechanism does not arise from a punitive purpose: it is based on a need for co-responsibility of those who caused the damage in the compensation that the State is obliged to pay overall. The Government has up to now opposed any hypothesis that can compress the autonomy of the magistrate and the free expression of the rational interpretive faculty. The activity and autonomy of the judge is, in fact, not in the simple application of a rule or a judicial precedent to a specific case, but in the work of rational interpretation of the rules, of the relations between them, of the relationships that are established with the supra-ordained sources, the Constitution in the first place and Community law for some time now, and the relations with the consolidated guidelines of the jurisprudence and the holding of those guidelines in the face of changes in society and new legislation. A rule on civil liability that used this parameter would not, therefore, compress only the precept contained in the second paragraph of Article 101 of the Constitution, but would harm the citizen himself. To limit that possibility would be to depress the vitality of the law, preventing it from evolving, to fill the legislative gaps that a constantly changing reality creates, to grasp the profound changes in the reality with which the law, by force of things, must always relate. I cannot fail to mention the priority commitment made in 2014 in the international sector, due to the fulfilment of the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, whose results I have already had the opportunity to report to Parliament. The European Semester called for intensive preparatory work in the first place. Thus, from July to December, activities related to the area of civil and criminal justice have been carried out. With regard to the criminal sector, the activities of the Italian Presidency have focused, in particular, on the dossiers aimed at contributing to the fight against crimes affecting the financial interests of the Union, such as the proposal I have already mentioned, aimed at establishing a European Public Prosecutor's Office, and the proposal aimed at establishing common criminal rules to implement this law. The agreement reached on the reform regulation of the European Union Agency for the strengthening of other instruments of criminal judicial cooperation (Eurojust) is also in this direction. On the other hand, the strengthening of the criminal defence guarantee system has not been overlooked. However, despite the progress, the objective difficulties, which are reflected in the resistance to the integration process and the Member States' distrust of the development of a common criminal law system, cannot be concealed. Annetto, for this reason, great importance to a dossier that Italy has had the opportunity to open during the semester, concerning the common formation of magistrates, essential to mitigate the substratum of mistrust that often distinguishes the relationship between different national jurisdictions and that is added to what characterizes the political authorities. A general agreement was concluded on the prospect of a directive on the presumption of innocence, which aims precisely to strengthen the right of the accused suspect to be considered innocent until the proof of his guilt, and presented a state of play on the proposal for a directive concerning admission to legal aid for suspects and accused persons deprived of personal freedom, including in the proceedings for the execution of the European arrest warrant. Work on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of personal data was also carried out with priority, which aims to ensure a coherent framework and a comprehensively harmonised system of privacy. The efforts made, particularly appreciated by the Commission, have led to a partial approach on some key chapters of the proposal, such as data processing in the public sector. An orientation debate was also held on the right to be forgotten and on the constituent elements of the overall architecture of the one stop shop one-stop shop. For the civil sector, with the awareness of the close link between justice policies and the need to relaunch economic growth, the Presidency has given priority to proposals and initiatives aimed at offering businesses, especially small and medium-sized ones, regulatory tools to overcome the economic and financial crisis of recent years, as part of the "Justice for Growth" project. With this in mind, the final agreement was reached on the proposal for a regulation on insolvency proceedings, which aims to make cross-border procedures more effective, in order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and its resilience in times of economic crisis, which is also the compass for internal legislation on the business crisis. To this end, a working group is being set up on this subject chaired by President Rordorf. A general approach to the proposal for a Regulation establishing a European Small Claims Procedure has also been reached and the technical examination of the proposal for a Regulation on the Common European Sales Law, which aims to improve the functioning of the internal market by establishing a body of uniform European rules, has continued. Finally, particular efforts have been made in the negotiations aimed at establishing simplification tools for the common life of citizens, such as the proposal for a regulation aimed at simplifying the acceptance of public documents at European level and the two proposals for regulations on the matrimonial property regime and the property consequences of registered partnerships, aimed at facilitating the circulation of cross-border copies, for which a possible compromise text has been reached. The justice sector of the Italian Presidency has also organised some prestigious side events in close contact with the European Commission, obtaining flattering results regarding the participation of the Member States. In particular, the conference on the confisks of the Mafia heritage, held in Syracuse, is worth mentioning. The work of these months has been very intense, it has concerned issues that afflict Italian justice for years; in this period of scarcity of resources, this has involved a supplement of inventiveness. The objective amount of issues that Parliament and the Government are called upon to address overall has not always made the institutional path easy. However, the strong organizational and rationalization commitment, together with some regulatory interventions, I believe to show the first fruits, also thanks to an action initiated by previous governments. On the issue of prison, on the timing and efficiency of civil justice, I have illustrated the first positive results that encourage the continuation of the roads that have been undertaken. It is with the same determination that we will continue with interventions in the immediate future in the criminal sector, including the adjustment of the prison regulations, whose assumption will be - as I have mentioned - constituted by the general states of the execution of the sentence. The close cooperation and constant confrontation between the Government and Parliament on some fundamental issues I believe has contributed significantly to these important results. I trust that this method can continue to bear fruit. In this Report I have been able to tell you some of the results that are already visible. I thank the competent Commissions with which it has been and there is a constant and positive comparison of merit and effective collaboration. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the opposition forces, with whom we have not missed the moments of confrontation and dialogue this year, which I hope will be more and more fruitful. In me, this Parliament and all the political forces represented here will always find an interlocutor careful to gather any stimulus that can help us overcome the challenge I feel common. Each of us in this crisis is called to give our best to help the country get out of the ford. Efficient justice is an important objective to be achieved, as this sector is an intangible infrastructure essential to any civil growth process. That is why we asked Commissioner Katainen to invest in the Junkher plan, because the functioning of justice is no less important than the smoothness of roads and the efficiency of railways. I was saying that this sector is a fundamental intangible infrastructure and a pillar for every modern democracy. For this reason I still feel the need to make an appeal to all political forces so that justice does not return to represent a soil of miserable controversy, but that of a common challenge, a common challenge in the broader plan of transformation of Italy. Thank you. [[Applause from the PD, SCP and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u28	I greet, on behalf of the Senate, the students and the students and teachers of the Liceo Scientifico (Scientific High School) Amedeo Avogadro in Vercelli, who attend our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u29	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u30	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the very limited time in my speech obliges me to mention only a few aspects which offer a very partial picture of what this Government, together with Parliament, is doing on the justice system in Italy. I must say, however, that the report presented by the Minister has satisfied me and I believe that the path we have taken is what we must follow. We have so much to do, so we continue on the path traced by the Report itself. The subject of justice in Italy is particularly complex and delicate, with a load of old problems that have dragged unsolved over time. Nevertheless, today I am saying that, for the first time, we are trying to have an organic impact on a reform process that seeks to overcome legislative hypertrophy, with a view to simplifying and rationalising measures and rules. It was finally adopted that "strategic vision projected into the future" evoked by the president emeritus, Senator Giorgio Napolitano, in his speech to the Superior Council of the Magistracy on December 23rd. As the President himself wished, it is necessary to proceed with "sober, essential and well-made provisions" for a more "efficient, functional and transparent" system, which is able to give certain and short-term responses to citizens and businesses, also for the recovery of the competitiveness of our economy. We therefore need more agile and faster justice, more productive in our work today, thanks also to the good level of computerization of the courts and the digitization of the processes, elements that the Minister has mentioned in a comprehensive way, and more effective in the result that is also linked to the heavy issue of the certainty of the sentence. In the area of criminal justice, Italy still has a sad record, according to the fifth biennial report drawn up by CEPEJ (the Commission for the Evaluation of the European Judicial System, in the Council of Europe), released last October. Among the 47 countries belonging to the pan-European body, ours is the one with the largest criminal backsliding, in second place for the civil one and is always on the podium - by no one desired - for the number of days it takes to see the end of a trial in first degree: about 2,566 for a bankruptcy judgment, against an average of the other countries of 537, and 424 for a judgment for voluntary murder (and there are about one and a half million pending criminal trials). It is true that these data refer to 2012 and that much has been done, but there is still a lot to do, so they are still emblematic of distortions and difficulties in order to many aspects not only regulatory but also organizational, and they provide the interpretative key to what needs to be corrected. It is not enough, therefore, to intervene separately and in part, but it is necessary to act with a structural approach, which this Government and this Parliament are finally doing, with a view to always constructive and collaborative confrontation. The frequent corruption and the widespread spread of organised crime are undoubtedly weighing on the criminal justice scene in Italy, which the Minister has already explained in detail. The fight against corruption is one of the pillars of the reform, which intervenes, on the one hand, by strengthening the repressive measures, by increasing the penalties, and, on the other hand, by affecting the prescription. However, it is significant that this morning the deadline for tabling amendments to the anti-corruption law has expired, which will certainly be fired in a very short time by the Commission, in order to arrive immediately in this House. The other issue that has already been mentioned is the overcrowding of prisons, on which - I remember - the well-known ruling of the European Court of Human Rights of 2013 weighs. However, I think it is necessary to recall and recall once again President Napolitano's words in his message to the Chambers of 8 October 2013, in which he also suggested the possibility of considering extraordinary remedies, which are also being discussed with differing opinions among political forces. We must deal with the emergency and correct the anomalies of our judicial and penitentiary system, but it is the systemic approach that must guide this path, intervening simultaneously on the front of the norms, the apparatus and the administration of the justice. This Government and this Parliament have already done a great deal on these issues, but there is still much more to be done and I am sure that you, Minister, will still be able to face up to the challenges we are facing in the field of justice with the same courage as you have shown to date. It is necessary to act on the extent of the penalties and their proportionality, by modifying the detention model and ensuring real opportunities for recovery in order to restore dignity to the prisoner, in compliance with Article 27 of the Constitution. The irrational length of the trials is one of the reasons for the congestion of the prisons and, if you do not intervene on the point, it is not realistic to think of being able to correct the criticalities. Among the solutions most likely to lead to tangible results, in my opinion, decriminalization - which must be clearly used in a careful and selective way and aimed above all at eliminating the prediction of a series of Bagatellar crimes, which, most of the time, inflate the offices of the prosecutor - and a concrete revision of the institute of prescription, to which the Government is already putting its hand. In any case, the results will not be optimal, if the competition machine for administrative staff is not restarted, the lack of which has a profound impact on the proper functioning of judicial activity. In conclusion, I consider it necessary to deal with the question of the honorary judiciary and the judges of peace. Several draft laws have long been before the Commission, of which I am the rapporteur, whose procedure has been interrupted pending the Government's announced intervention with a special measure. I hope that it will arrive in a very short time, since we can no longer fail to address the issue definitively and find the best solution, which, for a verse, takes due account of the significant contribution made to the administration of justice to date by the category of honorary magistrates, while at the same time ensuring the necessary professionalism and competences, indispensable for the proper performance of the high function that has been entrusted to them. We face, therefore, the reform path with the awareness that the most difficult challenge will certainly be to ensure that it has the ability to affect the system as a whole and to generate a thrust towards the innovation of justice in Italy become an improcrastinable priority, to restore the levels of democracy and civilization, and to restore greater credibility to our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u31	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u32	Madam President, Minister, your report has been very comprehensive and certainly in-depth, but it certainly did not convince us in the North Leg Group about the solutions and the procedure in which we are considering solving the problem of justice in Italy. We are still talking about this, since the majority of our fellow Member has mentioned it now, about a civilian backwardness, especially in Italy, in addition to the criminal one, which has absolutely shameful levels. In the 2013 report "Doing Business" regarding the execution of contracts, the parameter of Italy remains unchanged: we are in 160th place on 185. In Italy, in order to have an enforcement action in the event of a breach of contract, it is necessary to have 1. 210 days versus 510 in the OECD average, with 30% more spending than in other countries where on average about 20%. In some ways it is easier to obtain justice in Sudan and Madagascar and we can consider ourselves almost at the third world level. Again according to the "Doing Business" report, this type of inefficiency leads to an increase in costs for businesses. I cite the data provided by a study by the Confartigianato of Lombardy, according to which the excessive duration of the processes costs to the enterprises approximately 2.3 billion euros per year. We are talking about a system that makes Italy completely unappetising even for foreign investments. I see that the number of cases pending in the civil trial has miraculously fallen below 5 million. The solutions we have put forward today are absolutely not convincing to us. We are talking about this bill, which we hope will not only be announced and which will be discussed in the Chamber and in the Commission in the Senate, in order to actually talk about systems that renew and make the civil process efficient. The proposed reform regarding the introduction of assisted negotiation - which I remember was an institution that we had foreseen in a bill signed by the Divine Senator of the North League - is that system whereby separations and divorces can be done before civil state officials. These are not remedies that we believe to be decisive and we must also think that trying to resolve a backward situation by reducing the protection of citizens is a serious mistake. Providing for separations and divorces to be resolved before the civil state officers is the news that is almost like being in the market: 16 euros and you separate. We are talking about institutions which have involved lawyers and on which studies have been carried out and now it is thought that we can solve the problem with the degeneration of separation before a judge. As far as the systems for dealing with problems are concerned, let us take the question of criminal backsliding and the overcrowding of prisons. You said, Minister, that the numbers do not actually vary: the prison population has fallen to increase, of course, the number under alternative measures to prison. But this is not conclusive. This simply means that some criminals, instead of being in prison, are out. The remedies are others. What worries me is that the whole system of the various "empty prisons" that have been approved by this House has led to a regime of uncertainty on the part of all our fellow citizens: a system where it seems that, good or bad, those who commit a crime in Italy eventually, somehow, find a solution. This is a frightening message in relation to going in the face of extreme rigour, which is the rigor of which, among other things, you yourself, Minister, spoke with reference to the increase in the penalty for corruption and for the crime of fraud in the budget: on the one hand, we increase the penalty and, on the other hand, we expect institutions that go, on the other hand, against the trend. Let's remember the last case, of the last legislative decree that provides for non-criminality for crimes of particular tenuity. When we talk about these crimes, the particular tenuity does not mean that a crime has not been committed; strictness, in compliance with the law, should mean that, however, it is stealing a bottle of lacquer from the supermarket, as much as stealing a gold ring. For a person, a small object, like a small jewelry case that may be of irresolute value, can be a very important thing and have the same value as a Rolex. Let's remember that, among the various crimes for which you could face this form of decriminalization (we call it that, but you call it what you want), there are the theft, the scam, the trespassing, the threat, the fight, the tax and financial crimes, the corruption, the damages and the frauds. We're really talking about important crimes. All these measures, in reality of "clemency" (although they are certainly not to be considered as our measures of amnesty and indult, of which we would not even like to hear anymore), are a way to make it understood that, good or bad, in Italy it is easier to commit crimes than in other countries. Therefore, we need to assess the consequences of so-called empty-cars measures. In the end we find ourselves today with consequences and with the difficulty of finding the possibility of considering that those who commit a crime must actually be punished. All the solutions that are being prepared are not, in our view, credible. I shall conclude, Mr President. As far as the civil process is concerned, first we want to see the measure and then we definitely reserve the right to evaluate it. As for the increase in the cost of justice, there was talk of a problem of spending review and lack of resources also of the Ministry to succeed in approaching. However, it is not possible to increase the cost of appealing to justice. Justice must not be considered a privilege of a few: it must be considered a form accessible to all. In fact, justice must not be something elitist (of those who can afford great lawyers and do battles of principle): justice must be accessible to all. Only in this way will the perception be given that the law must be absolutely respected. I turn to the topic of the telematic process: nice to talk about even if, in the end, things happen and always happen to Italiana. Today to file an act with the telematic process you really need to be almost computer experts. I myself, who are here in these classrooms and I'm less involved in justice, wouldn't be able to make a computer store. I was given news today of a problem of immigration of the JEPs because of the executive eviction charged to the company that was to carry out the service. It blocks the computer system for eviction. We come to make a couple of considerations. Beautiful, yes, the Report, great intentions and great objectives, but, in the end, when we see how some situations are managed, it makes us a little 'have, great doubts. There has been talk of fake budgeting and false social communications and increased punishment. However, if we look at the Government's amendment, we see that a threshold of non-penalty has been inserted, for a fake in the budget we call it mild in relation to the size of the enterprise. In some ways, we devalue what should be a fundamental institution. So, there are still great doubts. Justice really needs structural and not just emergent interventions. Personally, I trust in the seriousness of the Minister and in the great activity he has tried to carry out, even trying to open a great dialogue. At this point the Minister listens to us, since we are talking about dialogue. Be careful not to ever get sick of "renzite" with the intention of making reforms just to call them reforms. Of course, Minister, you are a serious person and all the measures to be taken in the field of justice must never be polluted by demagogies, populism and the desire to do quickly. We do things with the right times, but that they are correct and serious. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u33	Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u34	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall use the very few minutes I have allowed myself for this brief speech, to talk about how justice in Italy must apply to the protection of the weakest. The first point concerns children, from zero to six years old, in prison with their mothers. You know that this is an issue that I have dealt with since the beginning of this parliamentary term, already with the previous Minister, and unfortunately I must point out that little progress has been made in relation to the great expectations of the associations that work in Italian prisons and of all the people who care about the future of these children. I would like to ask you, Minister, for the utmost care for the creation of institutions in attenuated custody provided for in Law No 61 of 2011 for mothers in custody. I remember that in January of this year the law came into force that extends the possibility for the mother to keep the child with her, no longer up to three years but up to six years. Thanks to you and the work of your Ministry, 11.7 million euros have been allocated from the fund for the prison plan and although some local administrations, such as that of Rome, we have given willingness to give to the Department of the penitentiary administration (DAP) an artifact to be used at a attenuated house of custody, we still see little in this sense. But I am sure that your sensitivity, Minister, will give more impetus to these projects. Let me turn to another sad and perhaps weak point of our action, which concerns violence against women. It is a subject that I follow every day, together with many senators, belonging to all sides, and first of all our President Faithful. Every day - it happened again this morning - there is a husband who kills a wife and there are still too many, Minister, women who turn to the judicial authority even two or three times, but they are not heard - or perhaps the risk they run is underestimated - and then they are killed. I believe that it will be important not only for police and emergency forces and authorities to pay more attention to this, but perhaps, Minister - as was said when we were younger: "to hit one to educate one hundred" - we would need some convicted people for not having listened to a woman who asked for help and who was later killed. Let me turn to the third point that I consider important in my brief speech: in the protection of the weakest I always put those who, when I administered this wonderful city of Rome, loved to call non-human citizens. You know, Minister - you have also helped me in this and you have written a beautiful note on the Ministry's website - that the legislative decree adopted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2014 speaks of the "tenuity of the fact" by reducing the causes of non-perpetuality. No decriminalization must be done for the offence of animal abuse. It is in fact a sentry crime, considered a way to discover and study what then a subject may be able to do against the weakest. It is often a matter of habitual crimes, so however the tenuity of the fact must be excluded, if nothing else because - as you have already specified - the victim cannot explain that the tenuity of the fact belongs to the crime itself. I am going to go a little further and put it in the opinion that we are going to write to the Justice Commission: perhaps this crime should be expressly excluded from the decree, if that were possible. I come to the last point, what I see in the Commission as the rapporteur for justice for a measure on a very important issue, which belongs to what our Prime Minister Renzi calls the rights season, civil unions. I would ask you, Minister, to pay close attention to the work we are doing in the Commission on justice with Mr Lumia, Mr Sergio Lo Giudice and all the senators of the Commission to respond to what the Constitutional Court is asking us to do: Parliament's utmost care in responding to couples made up of same-sex people. The decision of the Constitutional Court recognizes that the couple must be protected, be it composed of two men or two women, and it is the couple that must be given the utmost care. I will tell you more, Minister: I am very pleased that the parliamentary route has been chosen for the text on civil unions. The great battles of freedom and the affirmation of ethical issues in this country have seen the parliamentary route as the main route where we must build, win a large majority in this Parliament to respond to the rights of these families. I want to call them families, we have to call them families: they are families that live a drama, that of marginalization; they are families that live a great precariousness. Minister, if in a family made up of two men or two women today the biological parent fails because of a simple and dramatic car accident, the child of the couple becomes adoptable by third persons; the other parent, the non-organic parent, who, however, raised and loved that child, is not recognized in anything and in this way his pain would be given not only by the death of his partner or his partner but also by the subtraction of that child whom he loved and grew up. I will conclude, also out of respect for the times of those who will have to speak after me. You, Minister, have said a sentence in your report which I welcome and which - I am sure - the entire PD Group will want to sign up to: you said that freedom and security are marching together. Here, freedom and security must also be guaranteed to rainbow families; even to these children and to these couples of two mothers or two dads who at this moment without a norm on civil unions have neither freedom nor security. So I hope and ask you to help us too. In the Commission we will close the hearings at the latest in early March and open the deadline for amendments; we will discuss the amendments and then we will finally be ready to give a civilised response in this House. I hope you're with us. AIROLA (M5S). We vote, Minister, we vote. If you mark it: we vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crimi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so. Senator Airola, on the other hand, is not registered to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u35	Madam President, I am speaking for my colleague: yes, we are also voting immediately if there is a desire to complete the measure. Perhaps the parliamentary procedure has been specially chosen - I regret to say this, my colleague - to slow it down as much as possible and yet again. The commitment to this matter is from us and from you, Senator Cirinna, as part of the Democratic Party: let's take it forward and take home this provision, which is certainly awaited by many families. I address the Minister, after this somewhat monotonous report, difficult to listen to. We've heard the usual words. To hear about justice that for citizens and businesses is not the sphere to address for the protection of their rights, but the symbol of an ordeal to keep away, or that the malfunctioning of the judicial system is one of the biggest boulders on the road to growth are words we have heard the Minister say. It seems to hear someone talking about justice as something else; a matter of other people. You had the matter of justice in your hands. You, Minister, are there but you have been in your party forever, as have all those in this House. When you speak of justice, then have the decency to say that it is your fault if you have not been able to take the necessary steps to make the judicial machine work better. You have focused exclusively on the polemics - as you yourself said - and on this I invite you to make mea culpa as Minister responsible for your party - on the magistrates, on the separation of careers, on the civil responsibility of the magistrates: all issues which also have their right to be treated, but which are not, however, the fundamental problem of justice. It's as if we were going to improve the pilot, but always putting him behind the wheel of a "Fiat 500" which is the machine of the judicial organization, which has never been helped to improve. Also with respect to the interventions that have been made and to all the fine words spent on digitization and on the telematic process, when you go then to look at the reality of the facts - apart from some office where you work experimentally or in which you go ahead thanks to good will - the difficulties are really many, starting from the staff and resources available to the judicial offices. You yourself, Minister, spoke of staff. We're also talking about the precarious in the justice system. The Ministry of Justice is one of those that has had the most precarious in history and has been a continuous healing of precarious situations on precarious, starting from the typing of the distant '70s, until the quarterly of the '90s, to reach the subjects employed in socially useful works (LSU) LSU of the late '90s, to the law n. 242 of 2000 and to the fixed-term contracts transformed into contracts for indefinite time, to finish with the precarious ones of today, with the situation of the trainees and others that however there are. We continue to feed this system, instead of going to intervene in a clear and clear way on one of the main shortcomings existing within the Ministry of Justice, that is to say the staff, to whom we must refer, not only in the numerical sense, but also in terms of age, since, as we know, the staff is getting older: the average age is very high, because there has never been a turnover, of any kind. From this point of view, action must be taken. We are talking about a staff that is also a bit demotivated by the fact that they have always been within the same Ministry and the same Department. I am not talking about other ministries, because among the Departments within the Ministry of Justice itself there are children and stepchildren and that of the judicial organization was always the last. There is always talk of responsibility, but I remind you, Minister, that the government of which you are a member is the one that blocked the bill on anti-corruption, signed by President Grasso and examined by the Senate's Justice Commission, simply announcing a law, which arrived after six months: instead of using the instrument of the decree - perhaps, as we told you at once, it was the only case in which we would welcome it - you used the parliamentary route and the bill slowly continues its process. Not to mention the anti-mafia code, and here I call directly you, Minister, because you have a direct responsibility for a legislative decree issued by the Ministry of Justice, on which an opinion was given by the Commissions meeting 1a and 2a on a part in which there were six added words that were to be eliminated, with reference to the production of anti-mafia certificates for the living relatives of the owners of companies residing abroad. As we all heard, it was actually one more thing that could be saved. Despite this, after fifteen days the legislative decree came out as proposed by the Government, so the unanimous opinion expressed by 50 senators, from left to right, was taken into consideration. We then had to present a draft law which seemed almost to have been passed in the deliberating session, but it is still there, which is only waiting for a meeting of the Commissions meeting 1a and 2a to be voted on, since no amendments have been tabled since, as a common sense rule, a unanimous opinion has been expressed. We talk then every year - I repeat, I said this last year - of the recovery of procedural expenses, of justice, of recovery which takes place at the debt recovery offices through Equitalia. Do we want to make the service totally internal and internalized and to make sure that we can recover the resources of theaggio that Equitalia has, so as to spend them within the Ministry of Justice and not elsewhere, perhaps increasing the sector? The Ministry of Justice is among those who bring more money into the state's coffers, starting with expenses, which are increased whenever money is needed, up to fines, fines and all the penalties underlying the trials. Let's talk about a prescription. You have all been outraged recently, after the decision on asbestos, ready to intervene on the prescription. There was an intervention, one! Nothing, just words. Ready to intervene next time, because it's nice to have a theme for all seasons! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Just as now the day of remembrance is approaching and you will bring out again the issue of the crime of negationism. But we know, that one is pulled out of the drawer at the occasion, waved like the monstrance under Easter, and then locked in the drawer every time! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That's also a weapon of mass distraction. Finally, I should like to conclude with a subject which perhaps few people know. In the law of stability a fundamental novelty has been introduced for the judicial offices, which concerns the organization and therefore you, Minister, in first person; a novelty that concerns the expenses for the ordinary maintenance of the offices themselves. So far, these expenses have been incurred by the municipalities and then reimbursed by the Ministry - alas - late and not always in full. Well, from a certain point of view, the municipalities are finally freed from a burden, but the judicial offices? These had an outlet in the Municipalities, which were immediate in the answer when the judicial office had a requirement, starting from the payment of the fees (the Municipalities paid for those offices the bills of light and gas, heating and air conditioning), up to the small repairs, in short all that is needed. And everything happened directly and immediately, the municipalities also referred to internal resources without necessarily having to resort to external contracts, then asking the Ministry to honour those advances. Before the Ministry was unable to honour those advances in time to be able to account for them and to a total extent, sometimes providing no more than 70 percent of what was required and the Municipalities charged those expenses taking care that they were necessary, because after having anticipated them they could be cashed by the Commission for the maintenance of the judicial offices and therefore not refunded. The municipality therefore had all the interest in keeping the expenditure at the limit of what was necessary and kept the purse tight, but when there was an urgency it intervened immediately, and I who worked directly in that sector, I well know what the difficulty was to get the city out of what was necessary for a necessary and urgent expense. Knowing the times of the Ministry, we are afraid that a disaster will occur and still many judicial offices do not know well what will happen. We do not complain, therefore, if tomorrow falls, because there has not been an intervention in time, it will not be the roof of a school, but that of a courtroom because it expects the authorization, in order, of the President of the Court in the case of a peripheral office, of the President of the court of appeal, of the Commission of maintenance and of the Ministry of Justice, and then the credit of the funds, the performance of the races and whatever else. The other feared hypothesis, which worries me even more, is the custody of all this to a single national service company. It is a hypothesis that goes under the table that I throw there because, Minister, it is always better to say first the vibrations that are caught in the air, so when they are realized no one can say "you knew" and you did not say "it." I have the feeling - not only me, but also many who work in the judicial offices - that in the end, towards the middle of next year, we will resort to a large service company to which we entrust a large contract and many palates of euros because there will be no other solution. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u36	She's enlisted to speak Senator Filippin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u37	Madam President, Minister, first of all I would like to reassure you that your report has been a long and extensive one, but I did not find it monotonous or particularly challenging to follow, since it had to touch on all the issues of justice. It could not be otherwise because it responded exactly to what was the program on justice presented and started by this Government: different and innovative in the approach because complete and organic, as it was represented in fact the reform of justice, a complete and organic reform that puts in the first place - this is the essential, even more important - the reform of civil justice, even more important - I will be allowed this deviation - of the criminal one, also to fight the same phenomena of corruption that infest our country. Finally, in Italy, we can take care of all citizens and not just part of them or some of them. A path of renewal that began with the many measures that he mentioned in his Report, among which I simply recall the application of the telematic civil process and Decree-Law No 132 for the reduction of backwardness and the use of alternative measures to the jurisdiction of disputes. It is clear, to read at least in the newspapers, that success is especially with regard to simplified forms of separation and divorce. The enthusiastic response of the citizens, which I regret has been trivialized as due to the simple reduction to 16 euros of the cost of the stamp mark, shows that instead this is a useful way to go with tenacity, without forgetting - another parenthesis that I hope will be forgiven - that the reform of family law, and in particular of the mechanisms of government and crisis management, must be completed with the rapid approval of the law on short divorce and with a complete legislation on civil rights and unions. But all this, Minister, as you yourself mentioned, is not enough. I quote the valuable work of your Ministry, that is the presentation of interventions in the field of civil process, a field that is particularly important for reasons that would be too long to explain, but that have essentially to do with the efficiency of the Italy system and its competitiveness in Europe: The Italian civil process is a set of progressive technicalities, one created by the other, which make its natural result, that is, the judgment, tiring. Over the last forty years, to make time from the introductory law of the new rite of work, the interventions of the legislator have been numerous and have affected the connective tissue of the code of civil procedure, compromising its organicity and systematicity. With the passage of time, moreover, the code (...) has suffered more and more heavily the progressive increase of the litigation, with an organizational apparatus inadequate to face it. But an economy of inefficiency is what the country, increasingly immersed in the global story and therefore exposed to pay in economic, cultural and political terms its backwardness, can no longer afford. I stop here with the quotation of the card, which continues, as you yourself have just pointed out, with the examination of the various phases of jurisdiction, criticalities and possible solutions. Now we must go further, Minister: the delegation law, which has been announced for some time, is no longer postponed, the reform of the civil process is no longer postponed. I hope that as soon as possible Parliament will be able to intervene on this and, with the collaboration of all the parties involved (magistrates, lawyers, honorary judges and administrative staff), can finally give our country the necessary tools for an effective response of justice. But every reform also requires constant verification and I refer to petal No. 11 of the daisy in which the reform was highlighted: The reform of judicial geography, implemented by legislative decrees no. 155 and 156 of 2012, in compliance with the principles and guiding criteria of the delegation law n. 148 of 2011, marked an important step in the rationalization of the justice service. The reform has led to a significant increase in the efficiency of the judicial system, through the recovery of economies of scale and above all by improving the timing and quality of judicial decisions, thanks to the increased specialisation of the magistrates. In addition, the intervention allowed significant savings in public expenditure. I will stop here with the quotation, but I hope it is indeed so, Minister, because the wounds that many territories have had as a result of this reform are still bleeding, because the times of justice at the moment have not been reduced, because their costs for obtaining justice have increased, because they see millions of euro investments lying there, new, empty and unused, in constant remembrance of the sacrifices demanded in recent years to the Italian citizens and not adequately rewarded by this country. I want to close by thinking that there is still time to correct the mistakes, where there have been, as you yourself have just stated. Efficient justice, proximity justice, justice for citizens: this, and nothing less, is what we expect and want. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u39	Madam President, in the Minister's report, I read that he felt that he was intervening on civil justice so that - and I refer to his speech, Minister - it would be the dimension where even the weakest could be protected from the abuse of the strongest, and not the symbol of an ordeal to be kept as far away from their lives as possible. Well, I must say that I fully share your view. Minister, you have added that it is your intention to make the method of dialogue a fundamental element of your government action. I also share this view, because I believe that, regardless of whether you belong to your political forces, when we talk about issues of justice, there should be more cooperation in order to achieve goals and objectives in the interests of the citizens of our country. Minister, you are well aware that I have feelings of esteem for you on an exquisitely personal level: I declare it to you in private and I have no difficulty in making this statement in public. But when she is confronted with her offices and with the other political forces that make up the majority of this Government, I understand the difficulties she encounters in the implementation of her action. You have focused your attention on the civil process: well, Minister, how have you dealt with the civil process so far? We have an introduction to assisted mediation, which - to use a happy expression - has privatised a lot of the sector and civil disputes in our country. However, I would like to remind you, Minister, that in this privatisation mania your Government did not consider paying attention to some cooperation contribution that was offered to you, when you spoke, for example, about the issue of the family and the separations. In the Commission's work it was said by some, including myself, that marriage cannot be privatised. Well, with the government's assisted mediation and deafness, which did not consider subtracting the causes of separation from assisted mediation, I believe that this has been done in contempt of constitutional principles that want marriage as an institution with an even and essentially public function. Mr Minister, you have spoken with the amendment of the legal order, which has been awaited for years by the category of lawyers. Well, there was also a mistake in this measure, which we had tried to avoid. In fact, with the opinion expressed on the regulation for the conduct of the elections of the Councils of Orders, the Senate Commission, unanimously, pointed out to the Ministry that when the primary rule speaks of respect for minorities it refers to political minorities and not already to gender minorities, as you have, then, realized with the regulation. I can tell you that the National Forensic Council has suggested this kind of interpretation on the basis of certain reasons. But I would like to point out to you, Minister, that the National Forensic Council intervenes in the same way as the other decree on specialization, that is, the figure of the specialized lawyer: now also the primary rule speaks of delegation and identifies, as the subject who must carry out the courses and issue the certificate, the universities, while the National Forensic Council I believe that it suggests that other bodies - probably to the councils of the orders - allow the possibility of organizing these courses and, then, to issue the attestations. But, Minister, have you considered who the National Forensic Council is? But do you know, Minister, that the advisers of the National Forensic Council are elected by the advisers of the orders from among the advisers of the orders? So, what is the National Forensic Council? It is a derivation of the counsel of the orders. When the powers of the orders councils are affected, of course there is a national forensic council ready to indicate to the government a way that is corrective and that goes in the direction of the realization of its interests. But we in this House - and you, Minister, and your Government - must look after the interests of the Italians; you must look after the interests of democracy. At first, the TAR of Lazio suspended the provision of its Ministry and then, on the 14th of this month, gave the green light, asking where the damage was. But the damage is in democracy. I do not like, as an operator of law, to criticize the judgments and decisions of the judges, but in this case I must point out that that order, which revokes the suspension, cries vengeance. There must not be a person who suffers damage, if the damage is democracy. We shall see: the election of orders will take place, Minister, and you will see that in every court there will be a single list of 21 or 25 members, who will manage the organization of that district; there will be no internal opposition to the council. That is the damage: the lack of democracy. That's what you've accomplished. The telematic process requires a commitment of expenditure, Minister. In theory, I have nothing but to share the hypothesis of a fast trial, but it is not conceivable that one can intervene on the times of justice of the civil trial by eliminating the subscription by the witness of the minutes with his statements. We've earned those 30 seconds: but do we really think that's how we're going to reduce the trial time? In order to reduce the timing of the trial, dear Minister, as I have been able to say to you on other occasions, there is no need for a reform of the rules of the civil process. If you want to keep the guarantees unchanged, you cannot intervene by eliminating the subscription of the witness, or by other tricks that lead to nothing. The timing of the trial can be reduced by legal reform, Minister, where a judge is given the opportunity to have a judicial burden that allows him to know the disputes that are at his attention. But if in a civil hearing a magistrate has 70 or 80 files on his desk, in a cramped room, without a chancellor and without computer tools, how could he think he could give an adequate answer? The issues pertaining to the criminal sector I entrust to other interventions that will come after mine, in particular that of Senator Caliendo. I would just like to say, Minister, that I have expressed my appreciation for your goodwill, but I must also point out to you your weakness in not being able to counter, at the most significant moments, the interests of those who are institutionally obliged to cooperate with her and her Ministry, but who eventually cooperate for the achievement of personal purposes. We need to get out of this circle. If we want to, we must make clear rules, regardless of the interests of partisans and corporations, in the exclusive interest of the Italians. Its weakness is known, for example, also in the area of civil unions. There's no clarity.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u40	I invite you to conclude, Senator Falanga.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u41	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). I'm done, Madam President, thank you. If your government or if your majority are unable to support a thesis, then let's put it aside, but let's not deceive tens of tens, hundreds and thousands of people, different sex couples and same-sex couples, creating in them the legitimate expectation of a result of this government. You see, promising a decision or a certain measure hurts very much those who have been waiting for it for years and we cannot deceive our fellow citizens. We must be more clear, Minister, in all senses and in all directions. I would ask you to look at the things I have just said to you, particularly those relating to the organization of my profession, i.e. lawyers. Be careful, Minister, to the snares that come to you in the exercise of your honest work. That is why I declare my esteem for you: I am convinced of your intellectual honesty, but I invite you to be stronger, more determined, more decisive and clearer towards this Senate and this country. [[Senator Palma's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lo Giudice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u43	Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Orlando, not only and not so much for his report, but also for the efforts he has made on these issues, for the objective of setting a machine of justice in motion with too many problems, because for too long it has been neglected. I shall confine myself, in the few minutes I have available, to briefly mentioning three issues. The first concerns the conditions of prisoners in our prisons. I am obviously beginning with applause for the actions put in place by the Minister, the Government and also the Parliament, who in recent months have managed to achieve the objective that was mentioned earlier by the Minister: the presence of 53,000 prisoners, against the 66,000 in January 2013, thus avoiding the heavy sanctions in Strasbourg. In particular, I would like to stress the fact that the Minister referred to us earlier, concerning the decline of prisoners awaiting trial at first instance (from 11.108 in December 2013 to 9.549 in December 2014), which seems to me to be very significant. There is no doubt that this is one of the issues on which the action of the Government and Parliament has been more intensive and more effective. We must not, of course, think that this has solved the problem of harming rights within prison structures. I would like to mention two issues on which I am sure the Minister will not be lacking in attention. The first concerns the affectivity of persons who have been reclused. Today there is in fact a very difficult situation that concerns the theme of the affectionate and family relationship of the inmates with respect to their relatives, loved ones and their affections: sparse talks and only under observation of third parties, weekly phone calls of only ten minutes, according to a punitive logic that adds a further penalty to the detention and you do not understand who or what should benefit. What should be the use of the fact that those who are recluse should in fact break up their relationship with their family and lose those previously built emotional relationships? I therefore ask the Minister to be prepared to address this issue. Again with regard to the issue of imprisonment, with Law No. 81 of 2014, of extension of the OPGs, we have approved a principle that has exceeded the so-called white life sentences within the OPGs, establishing that prison security measures cannot last longer than the time set for the prison sentence for the crime committed. Having established that principle, it must be extended beyond psychiatric judicial hospitals, for example to working houses where the principle of uncertainty of the duration of imprisonment still prevails. Minister, I have listened with pleasure to your announcement of the next appointment of the National Prosecutor for the Rights of Prisoners, which I would like to hope will also help us to resolve these issues. The second issue I would like to address relates to the organization, which the Minister has rightly pointed out as a central issue. Today they look with attention, but also with concern, many subjects engaged in the judicial machine, from the judges of peace, to the judicial officers, to the internal staff waiting for requalification. In particular, I would like to remind the Minister here of the commitment made by Parliament with the approval of Law No 114 of 2014, of the conversion of Decree-Law No 90, which provides for the inclusion in the office for the trial of those precarious of the justice, former training trainees, who in recent years have played a fundamental role for the performance of the daily activity of the judicial offices. I take advantage of the presence of the Minister to ask us to update on the state of the art of this issue. The third and final issue, certainly not in order of importance, is that of civil rights. I will not go back to the issue of civil unions, because Senator Cirinna has talked about it extensively in a way that I fully agree with. In particular, I support Senator Cirinna's call for the rapid adoption of a law on which the Constitutional Court has already twice called Parliament in two separate judgments, if not to underline how strong the demand for intervention by the population on these issues is. From the short divorce to the adoption of the mother's surname, from the homophobia law to the amendment of the law n. 164 of 1982 on the change of sex, which the Council has come to declare unconstitutional in the part in which it imposes the divorce of State to the parties, until the citizenship of the children of foreigners, it will be important that the Government supports the parliamentary action of reform. I would like to conclude by recalling, in particular, an issue that is that of legal euthanasia, to date the only call of Napolitano that had no response, either from the Government or from Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u44	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u45	Madam President, Minister, fellow senators, in a country like ours, where corruption (I use the Minister's words) has reached intolerable dimensions also due to the frequent interweaving with the mafia-type organizations, with devastating effects on the economy and for the citizens; in a country where an entire political system has not hesitated to conduct an unconfessible negotiation with the mafia in order to pursue equally unconfessible objectives; in a country like ours where politics and crime are often so collusive that they do not allow to understand where the one begins and where the other ends, as in the investigations of the capital mafia, in the scandal of the Expo, in investigations of the MOSE of Venice or in those of the TAV. Here, in a country like ours, the question to ask is not how to make the machine of justice work, but who should keep it in condition not to work, at all levels, starting from the parties present here, from the government to the institutions. We certainly did not forget that sitting in that chair of Minister should have been the pm Nicola Gratteri, a highly esteemed person, who knows well the machine of justice, as well as the organized underworld, and who would not have hesitated to start those important and necessary reforms to make it work better. To make justice work in our country, however, is not an objective pursued by everyone: and in fact, Dr. Gratteri was kindly asked to take a step back. With regard to the state of justice of our country, I quote an effective, recent synthesis of Piercamillo Davigo: It continues to worsen Italy's position in the indices of perception of corruption and to collapse its prestige in the international community. Well, that's all I need to say. However, I want to go into the merits of the timing and duration of the trials, reforms, the problem of prison overcrowding and the general state of justice, so allow me to focus on an issue that seems to be of minor importance. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to his lack of response to parliamentary questions and, in particular, to the Senate Act 4-00804, awaiting a reply from 5 September 2013, i.e. 16 months. The question raises a significant issue: the conflict of interest of the then Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi and his role in the greatest building speculation ever seen in my city, Vicenza, probably one of the most serious in Italy, which includes, among other things, the construction of the new court. Mr. Minister, is it in order to live up to the Nazarene covenant that your Dicastery, despite the many reminders, does not respond to those questions that could cause boredom - and perhaps prejudice - to one of your closest allies, Berlusconi, precisely? Because, if so, other choices of the Government, contrary to the proper functioning of justice in our country, on the contrary, aimed at hindering it, would certainly appear much clearer and understandable: I refer, for example, to the continuous boycotts by the Government and the majority of an effective anti-corruption law, starting from the bill of your own President Grasso, to understand us. The reform, of course, was ready for the Senate vote before last summer in the Commission: now, probably, will come to the vote, however after the introduction of measures certainly more welcome to the Knight, such as the - ineffective - rule to combat self-money laundering and the reduction of penalties for crimes under Article 416-b of the Criminal Code; the conflict of interest, then, has disappeared from the political agenda; the reform of the prescription is in fact blocked, despite the insistence of the parliamentary majority and the majority of civil society, and the concomitant appreciation of the judiciary for a reform that provides for its suspension from referral to trial or at least from the judgment at first instance. This government has even come to present, on Christmas watch, the decree delegated tax with impunity to those who defraud or escape up to 3% of the declared taxable, which would give back full political agility to Berlusconi. Incidentally, on this issue, I hope that the judiciary will take a firm stand, so that the matter can be referred back to the Court of Ministers. I still remember the amendment to the reform of the fake in the budget, which intended to cancel the well-known sponge stroke of Berlusconi and which instead, by chance, is copied equal by the same, thus canceling its effects. On the important reform of the prescription, it should also be remembered the thought of the President of the Court of Cassation, according to which it should be understood as the reform of the reforms, which we are repeatedly - and, I add, unnecessarily - urged by international bodies (lastly the OECD report of May 2013), who deplore the high percentage of the crimes of corruption that are declared extinct for this cause. In short, nothing strange if to impose the political line on the Government in the matter of justice was still the most famous prejudiced in Italy: in reality, to pursue a policy so dear to Verdini and company is a central-left government, from which the country would have expected anything else. In the twenty years that we have left behind, after clean hands, we have witnessed the attempt, to a large extent, to dismantle the justice of our country. Now, in the 17th legislature, we needed the courage to move forward to become a normal country. On the other hand, for obvious reasons of political opportunity, it is always Berlusconi who dictates the law. You yourself, Minister Orlando, say that Justice has been (in the past) the ground of a bitter political confrontation, which has hindered the necessary reforms and transformed the problems into chronic ills. This is a page that, according to you, can be said closed. We must therefore take note of this. Its majority, in exchange for the support of Forza Italia for the most useless and harmful constitutional reforms in republican history, in exchange for the support of an electoral law forged on the needs of a single party, in exchange for a convergence perhaps in sending Amato or another "businessable" to the Presidency of the Republic, has renounced to face and resolve the many problems of justice in our country. Calamandrei said that in order to make the reforms it is necessary to be presbyted, that is, to see well from afar, but not closely. Here, Minister, you are short-sighted: pursuing short-term objectives; putting forward facade reforms and, in the meantime, to put it in his words: "the malfunctioning of the judicial system represents (...) one of the biggest boulders on the road to growth". From the report of the President of the Court of Cassation, at the inauguration of the judicial year, I drew some ideas. In the area of criminal justice, there are no significant improvements in the duration of proceedings. The spread of organised crime continues to be a dramatic emergency (...), we see a general increase in crimes against the heritage. The average time for the appeals courts (899 to 844 days) is still too far from the two-year benchmark indicated by the Court of Strasbourg, (...) making organisational and regulatory interventions indispensable. In addition, the permanent undersizing of staff concerns staff of both the judiciary and administrative and technical support. The significant increase in the average duration of the procedures defined (from 34.1 months to 42.5 months) is even a reversal of the trend over the last few years. I shall end with your words, Minister: "Efficient justice is an important goal to be achieved, a pillar of every modern democracy." In order to pursue it, however, do we need to decide which side to stand: on the side of corruption or anti-corruption, on the side of those who forge budgets or on the side of those who fight this crime, on the side of the organized underworld or on the side of those who oppose it, on the side of Berlusconi or on the side of justice? In order to satisfy the former you have renounced to face the reforms necessary to make the latter effective. You will have to take responsibility for this. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u46	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u47	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my brief speech will focus on assessing the progress made in the criminal enforcement phase, namely the phase following the condemnation of that justice system which is all too often removed in the collective imagination and from the policy left on the margins of the debate. It is important to stress, as you have done, where we are led, namely from a condition in which our country, in relation to the European scoreboards, appeared under special supervision for an inefficient justice system with respect to the principle of fair trial and following the well-known condemnation of the Court of Strasbourg, in the Torreggiani case and others, for violation of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. In 2013 more than 66,000 prisoners, out of about 48,000 places available, with an overcrowding rate lower than that of Serbia only. Central therefore appeared the need to start a path of reform of the overall justice, organic and coherent, able to mark the line of demarcation and passage. To this we were reminded by the President of the Republic of Naples with his message to the Chambers: an invitation to institutional and political responsibility. The situation of the Italian penitentiary system, following a series of regulatory interventions, today gives us a situation of almost normality, which has allowed us to avoid the condemnation of economic sanctions by Europe and to return to the penalty that function of its own, in accordance with the constitutional dictation referred to in Article 27, that is a reeducational function and social reintegration. We therefore record, today, a reduction in attendance in prison to 54,000 prisoners: 11,000 fewer than a year ago; also a reduction of that 40% of prisoners in custody, which we hope can further go down with the definitive approval of the bill that intervenes in this matter, to protect the fundamental principle of presumption of innocence and the principle of gradualness of restrictive measures, so that the prison remains the extreme ratio, especially in the precautionary phase. This decline in attendance is the result of the combination of the effects produced by the legal measures adopted: in particular, the extension of the suspension mechanism of the order of execution of the sentence, which limited the entry and the "revolving doors" effect of the prison. A further effect - as you have recalled - was produced by the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2014, which has affected the application of Article 73 of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 309 of 1990, in the matter of drugs, for the small facts, which could involve a considerable part of that 38 percent of subjects detained for the violation of such Single Text. They are often drug addicts, who could be admitted to alternative measures of therapeutic reliance, but who do not use them because of lack of public resources. Positive are also the effects of the strengthening of the instrument of transfer to the countries of origin of the condemned foreigners (you mentioned it: Romania, Albania and Morocco), for a total of more than 5,000 prisoners concerned. The introduction of the special early release, together with the enhancement of eligibility for alternative measures, has brought the prisoners in external execution from 16,000 to more than 31,000 today: an excellent result. Moreover, the introduction of compensatory compensation remedies enabled the Court of Strasbourg to reject more than 3,000 appeals for compensation against Italy. Finally, but no less important, it is the commitment not to grant further extensions on the closure of the OPGs and for the opening of adequate prison residences for the more than 1,000 inmates sentenced at the end of the sentence never. Today, from the data provided by the Ministry, it appears that the problem of overcrowding has been tackled effectively, but not yet shot down. Steps forward were made above all avoiding entry into prison, with the introduction of house detention, with the use of electronic bracelets and with the testing. However, Minister, some implementing decrees are still missing. We have chosen to address the issue of prison overcrowding as a structural and non-emergency problem. These results, however, require continuous monitoring. We therefore welcome the proposal to organise general states involving all those who work in and around prison. However, Minister, in order to strengthen external criminal enforcement, it will not be enough to reassign the savings identified by the recent Stability Act to the external enforcement offices, but much more courageous organisational choices within the new structure of the Ministry of Justice, which will streamline the central structures and free up resources in favour of the peripheral offices on the front line. In this direction, we therefore raise doubts as to whether the Department of External Enforcement for Adults should be brought together with juvenile justice. That worries us. In addition, there is still no further chapter: I refer to the chapter on the exploitation of professional resources committed to ensuring security and re-education (the prison police force, educators and psychologists). The prison planet is a planet that continues to revolve around the degree of civilization of a country and whose evolution cannot stop even in the face of reprehensible partnerships of corruption and fraud. In fact, our prospects must remain a penalty that favours reintegration and reduces relapse and a prison system capable of opening up to the contribution of the outside world, beyond the walls. I'm gonna finish. The shadows emerged from recent judicial investigations, which must certainly be pursued, cannot cancel 30 years of history and evolution of the legal system and prison policies, just as they cannot cancel experiments of positive planning in some institutions of our country, aimed at making the sentence in prison more human. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u48	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you, Minister, started your speech in a very interesting way. One of the first things he said was that, for citizens and businesses, justice is not the sphere to turn to for the protection of rights (...), but the symbol of a Calvary to keep as far away from one's own life as possible and that the country was the expense of it. I add that to the cost "is" the country. In the meantime, I would like to thank you, Minister Orlando, for your extensive presentation and, in general, for your willingness to speak with the Senate, including in the Commission, where you have been very present. Having said that, I note that this not long parliamentary term has not yet begun in the best way, as far as justice is concerned. When, in fact, it was decided what issues were to be dealt with in a constitutional reform, which in the first part of the legislature was supposed to be of a broad nature, the reform of justice was excluded - despite our request - and it really does not understand why. You yourself, Minister, have certainly not been stingy in denouncing situations that make our justice among the most important patients to be treated and among the areas in which the most important changes are to be made, because justice is not only about judges, lawyers and perhaps criminals, but it is about everyone. The fact that, in Italy, there is a justice that gives problems is one of the reasons - certainly not the only one, because unfortunately there are others, and also very important - that keeps away investments from Italy, that is, it makes the capitals run away - those that are still there - from Italy to other countries. It is, in fact, difficult to think of doing business in a country in which, if you are wronged, you do not know when you will have justice, but above all you do not know how it will end, although your case is identical to others that have already been judged, since one court judges in one way and another judges in a completely opposite way. Let us think of the reform of Article 18 of the Staff Regulations, which in any case has been touched on in some way. Many have said that this has not been done sufficiently and somewhat vaguely, but there has certainly been the Government's understanding of reducing the intervention of the judiciary and justice, in the sense of reintegrating the worker. This is in itself an admission of the fact that justice, in some cases, is unreliable. If we could, in fact, rely on the judgment we have in the courts, I would say first that the old version of Article 18 was fine, because if a worker was actually sent away for no justified reason and without sufficient grounds, he should be reinstated. The mere fact of admitting that the area in which the reintegration takes place must be reduced is an admission of the fact that, beyond the times, justice is also unreliable in what it says. This is even more serious, because you risk waiting for years and years and then being wronged when a completely identical case, if not for the names of the protagonists, has been judged in the opposite way. Unfortunately, I would say that in this sense the elements of uncertainty have increased, in front of some magistrates who make an extremely creative use of their very high and noble function. We have heard in these days, at hearings in the Justice Commission, some magistrates justify their judgment by saying that it was time to give a sidekick and others who have explicitly theorized, even in writing, that in some cases justice must go beyond the law, because certain issues must be absolutely resolved. I recalled that Article 101 of the Constitution says that magistrates are subject only to the law and, the word "only" is always stressed, in the sense that they must not be submitted to the Executive, as is the case in France, which is certainly not a country without democracy and the rule of law. In France the magistrates are subordinate to the Executive, but in Italy they must not be. I have pointed out, however, that the rest of the sentence also exists, namely that the magistrates are subject to the law. And in front of magistrates who justify their sentences, saying that they wanted to give a sidekick, what is the serenity of any person who lives in Italy or who comes from outside Italy in our country? What can that person think: will he apply the law or will he want to give a shoulder in the name of most noble (of course) ideals - certainly, his ideals are always very noble, while those of others far less - in this or that direction? How do you do business in this country? In fact - alas - we do it less and less and, certainly, not only because of the problems of justice - we know well - but companies close or move, and capital goes abroad. We also think of the rules that have been discussed and which you yourself, Minister, mentioned in your report: the fake in the budget. We all agree that, when the fake in the balance sheet has the result of damaging members of the company, shareholders, the public interest, of defrauding the tax, it must be pursued. However, if we are to pursue a false budget, in the sense of a budget that has been drawn up in such a way that the expert chosen by the judge does not approve of it on technical matters - and we know that this is also a vast objection - this means encouraging something else: do the budget as you wish, but do it outside of Italy, so you will have no more problems. The risk of this fight against corruption and tax evasion (all things sacred) is that it will be resolved in the fact that there is no more tax evasion because there is no more economic activity: no economic activity, no tax, no tax. But we would like to solve it in the sense that there is a friendly tax, right, and a justice that works and can really be above the sides. We have difficulties even when we receive an unfair fine, because we know that, with automatic systems, this is a daily reality that citizens are faced with. Before it was said that today he gets divorced with a payment of 16 euros. I don't know if that's exactly the case, but I still think that's the big deal. Well, in order to resort to an unfair 50 euro fine - for those with an average income it is a big figure - you have to pay 83. We know that this is not your responsibility, Minister, but certainly this situation continues and, together with others, is a serious imbalance. I would like to emphasise two specific points. The first is that tomorrow I will ask a question about the fact that, in the context of this legal uncertainty, in these days when there is a great deal of talk about the freedom of satire and so on, a website has been seized its main page because it contained expressions of excessive irony towards the LGBT association. Well, that's a problem: what would have happened if a magistrate had seized a page of Charlie Hebdo, why didn't he give a sufficiently correct description of the thought of some Islamic ulem or imam? I think there would have been an uprising. Finally, Minister, I ask you: in the programme with which you yourself were elected in Parliament - not you as Minister, since there is no direct election for ministers - it was written that, in order to compensate for the serious errors made in the implementation of the delegation law on judicial geography, it was necessary to exclude from the list of offices to be deleted those of Pinerolo, Bassano Del Grappa, Chiavari, Lucera, Rossano Calabro and Urbino. Without prejudice to Urbino's court, why didn't you implement this point of your program? Why, in the face of amendments tabled by myself and others, has the Government given an opinion against them? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u50	Senator Manconi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u51	Madam President, Senators and Senators, Minister of Justice, I have listened very carefully and with equal interest to the Minister of Justice's Report, and I must say that I have shared many passages and many indications of perspective. On the other hand - mine is not just a personal note - I value the Minister of Justice for his serious reformist commitment and his guaranteeing vocation; quality, the latter, all the more appreciated the more in contemporary Italy it is a rare virtue, I would say very rare. Having said that, however, I have to express my dissatisfaction with the substance of the report, because I think that the reform process that is described in it presents many factors of very significant uncertainty and delays. In other words, I think that not only has that process failed to bear fruit, but it has not yet had a successful regulatory outcome in its precise legislative form. There are many reasons for these factors of uncertainty and the elements of delay that are so burdensome: among them there are undoubtedly the acute differences within the majority and the viscousness, resistance and genuine hostility that, on the subject, cross Parliament. It would be very interesting if the debate were to proceed by identifying the essential issues. Since it is my interest to do so by entering the subject matter with precision and punctuality, I ask permission to deliver a written text in which, in a widespread and precise way, within the merit of the many reasons for dissatisfaction that I have previously recalled, signaling what I think are delays and uncertainty. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Petris]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u52	The Presidency takes note of this and authorises it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u53	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u54	Senator, please button your jacket.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr President, as usual, I am still correct, wearing a suit and a tie. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u56	Colleagues, please let the senator speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u57	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Minister, I do not fully share your report, because I believe it is imbued with a little too much demagogy and a little too much hypocrisy. The same colleague of the Democratic Party who preceded me, Senator Manconi, in delivering the written text of his speech, has already said that he considers the Report that we have heard today not fully sufficient, between 5 and 6. As far as I am concerned, I am more severe because I, who are of guaranteed culture, do not see in your Report that guaranteed vocation that someone says to be present. I talked about demagogy earlier. You, Minister, together with your parliamentary and government majority - you mentioned this at the beginning of your speech and I mentioned it in detail - following the resignation of the first office of the State, you praised President Napolitano. It should be remembered, however, that the words must follow the facts and in fact, you and the Democratic Party have disowned President Napolitano. With the letter that Napolitano sent to the Chambers, and that you quoted, some precise things have been said: this is the first time that President Napolitano tells the Chambers what to do. Did we? No, we didn't. Napolitano has clearly told us that we need tools such as indult and amnesty and you have completely disinterested yourself. In the only circumstance, in the course of nine years, in which, as Head of State, Napolitano sent a message to the Chambers, as foreseen by the Constitution, his words fell into the void and that was a guarantee message. We're talking "reformist and reformist planet." But, Minister, the flight of capital abroad is no longer a problem for Italy, because now they are no longer fleeing capital, but they are fleeing entrepreneurs and brains. If you go not to the countries of the East, where the labour force is cheap, but to Switzerland, you would find thousands of Italian entrepreneurs who build on the border. From the border up to thirty kilometers from it there are yards, ruspes and cranes to work, because our manufacturing industry and our excellences leave. While you are going to legislate on carriage transport dragged by horses, the others are leaving with air carriers abroad. That's what we're worried about. We are concerned about why they are leaving and, Minister, they are leaving because the ordeal of criminality has taken away their hope of continuing to live in Italy and of giving work to the Italians. There is no work and they take work abroad. The number of cross-borders, i.e. Italian citizens forced to cross the border to go to work, has tripled in recent years. Minister, unemployment in neighbouring London - according to ISTAT - does not exist, although England has a 5%-6% unemployment attributable to Ireland and Scotland. There is no unemployment because in England there were really reformist Presidents of the Council, from Thatcher to Tony Blair, to the current Premier, who knows how to carry out a truly reformist policy that produces work. Minister, today I have spoken, remembering that the fifteenth anniversary of the martyrdom of Bettino Craxi is celebrated. [[Comments from the M5S Group. Call the president back.]] Well, criminality in Italy has broken into the wall of hypocrisies, falsehoods and lies that continue to float even with this Government, because the law and certainty of punishment continue not to exist. As a reformist socialist I cannot fail to remember the failures and how this Second Republic was born, because this is the original sin that must be dissolved. You have spoken of peace, but peace must be sought concretely in fact: it is not enough to state it and then let it fall, like those who throw a stone and then hide their hand. I could read you the quote words of the former head of the Milan Public Prosecutor at the time of the Pool Mani Pulite, Borrelli, who, together with Di Pietro, has allowed his party, in recent years, sometimes, to reach the Government of the Nation. He said that if he were a public man from some Asian country like Japan, where it is customary to apologize for his mistakes, he would apologize for the disaster followed by Clean Hands. [[Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]] That's what the former Chief Prosecutor of Clean Hands in Milan says. [[Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u58	Senator Giarrusso, please. Let Senator Barani finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u59	[[Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]] Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Don't worry, we know who the voice comes from. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, you have to complete. Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). It doesn't bother me. [[Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]] The former judge of Peter's Clean Hands, on the other hand, made it clear that Bettino Craxi had to pay for responsibility that he didn't have and that now he wouldn't do that trial again. It is here, Minister, that you must intervene, because peace is taking place not from today, but from the past. You can't tell us that the judges are 007 with the license to kill, because they killed the economy and led to the Calvary of the citizens and if you wonder why. It's like that king who says, I do not understand why my people do not understand me. Citizens feel Italian justice as their enemy: citizens feel it and businesses feel it. There is this sense of mistrust and you, therefore, must restore confidence in justice and I do not believe that the reforms that we have carried out, and which have given little positive signals, are reformist. In addition to the civil trial, on which you have spent a great deal of your report, the criminal trial is another aspect that we must resolve in the sense of guaranteeing. You cannot tell me that the fact that people who are awaiting judgment have gone from 25,000 to 13,000 is a guarantee answer: it would be enough that there was one person still waiting for trial in prison to say that we have failed. But here we are still talking about thousands of people who are awaiting judgment, and I think statistically 33%. I am not saying that it has not achieved results, it has achieved them, but they are not yet sufficient. I therefore believe that the drama of the indiscriminate use of the institution of protective custody - an issue which was also raised by President Napolitano - still deserves to be considered: it does not mention finding immediate solutions, so that all too often unjust detentions occur, with the related social damage that this entails, but also with damage to industrial enterprises and in terms of GDP. Statistics tell us that the GDP of criminality costs Italians 2%, which means 36 billion, which is a good figure. In addition to these damages, there are also those of an economic nature, since the State (and therefore the citizens) compensates those who are unjustly treated in prison in advance without the trial beginning, and this goes beyond all other episodes of unjust detention, overcrowding and torture. In conclusion, I would like to refer you, of course, to the explanation of vote I will make on behalf of and on behalf of my Group, and I believe that there are little glimpses of light in your report. But I say to her - as they say, speaking to her mother-in-law so that she may understand - that, as long as the Lumia and the Cassons are in the Commission for justice, she will go a short distance, in terms of measures of a purely reformist type, because they are justiceists in DNA and are giving this Senate an imprint, in accordance with the 5 Star Movement, a justiceist, which is not good for Italy and the Italians. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u60	. Senator Capacchione is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u61	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's report by the Guardasigilli acknowledges the slow movement, but at last it has begun in the direction of modernising the justice service to the citizen, starting from the data, which are not yet decisive but certainly positive, on the crowding of prisons and on the more general conditions of prisoners (at the state over 50,000), with a significant reduction of those in preventive custody. This is a budget, to which Parliament and this House have contributed, thanks to the work carried out in this direction by the Commission Justice, with a view to the more general revision - which you have announced several times - of the codes and a different approach of the citizens themselves to the judicial system; a system which, in the light of the latest reforms, is preparing for a lesser quarrel and containment of it through alternative means of recomposing disputes, both civil and criminal. It is still too early, I believe, to draw up a budget, but the reduction of pending cases confirms one thing: the path taken, although in need of other corrective measures, is the right one. Too bad only for the inefficiencies that still resist in some parts of Italy after the new judicial geography, inefficiencies that are still done in time to remedy. Another significant fact is also: in view of the reduction of the use of prison as the only measure to guarantee the security of citizens, there has not been so much dreaded and declaimed, for reasons of propaganda rather than factual, the rise of crimes against the person and the heritage, the development of which is also determined by the still harsh economic crisis. It is a clear step forward - I said - but that is not all. If - as Voltaire said - the civilization of a country is measured by the conditions of its prisons, it is necessary to continue on this path, widening the field of initiatives aimed at the re-education and rehabilitation of prisoners so as to fully satisfy the constitutional dictation. In this context, the closure of judicial psychiatric hospitals, one of the first acts voted by this House in the very first days of the XVII legislature, but not yet effective, should also be included. It is a measure that also imposes the modification of the penal code in the part that governs the security measures, from Articles 203 to 207, still today linked to the healing of the inmate-sick and not already to the penalty previewed for the contested crime. The corrective measures provided for by the Ministry are, in fact, linked to the suppression of the OPGs and the "white life sentences," and not to a modernization of the code that, in this part, still suffers from the fascist legislation and an almost demonic conception of mental illness. The work carried out on the subject of civil rights is also to be emphasized, but it is not yet decisive in terms of the dissolution of marriage (short divorce has yet to be approved) and civil unions: areas for which there is still a need for comparison in the Commission, given the diversity of views between the different sensitivities present in Parliament. But here too the road is traced. And then there is, the reform of the crime of defamation through the press with the abolition of the prison, still in the middle of the ford, to which it will have to follow as soon as possible the reform of the order of the journalists, subjected to the control of the Guardasigilli and the national council, in the perspective of the efficiency and the reduction of the expense, to which it will have to follow instead to an abnormal organism slot, moreover little representative of the category. Even in the area of combating organised crime, after more than twenty years of unnecessary discussion, the amendment of 416-b, the vote on political-mafia exchange, is to be stressed. And it is positive the contribution arrived from your Ministry in the matter of tightening the penalties within the Mafia association, also because - as you, Minister, has emphasized in your Report - the investigations show that the corruption - I am quoting - has reached intolerable dimensions, also for the frequent interweaving with the mafia type organizations. This has devastating economic and public effects. This has confirmed the devastating union between the phenomena of corruption and the mafias, which feed on each other. Therefore, the obligation to inform the Anti-Corruption Authority regarding the prosecution should be welcomed. And let there be those reforms in the area of financial crimes that keep the fate well separate, with different limits and cuts in penalties and procedures for the prosecution, of those who are wrongfully and of those who do not use the folds of tax law to form supplies in black, necessary for the payment of bribes or to win, outside the rules of the market, the public provisions for contracts. However, there is still a long way to go, and it is certainly not easy. The PD Group and the Justice Commission have shown that they have every intention of proceeding quickly and with the necessary attention not to yield to demagogy, keeping in mind Cicero's words, which he recalled as the foundation of justice is faith, that is, constancy and sincerity in keeping things said and agreed. [[Applause from the PD Group]] AIROLA (M5S). Even the short divorce, if you will, Minister, we will vote on it tomorrow. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u62	Madam President, Minister, we have listened to you and perhaps you are overly optimistic about the judgments reported at least in this House. You are satisfied with one thing, namely that there are only 4,900,000 pending cases and, therefore, we have passed substantially below the threshold of 5 million. All right: there is always the eye that sees more pink or the eye that sees more black. It is in fact, however, that we have an enviable backwardness, we could say euphemistically. You mentioned some small questions that are helping to get back in. There is one that I particularly like: arbitration with negotiation assisted by the lawyer. Too bad that your government and you assumed this rule in September last year, while I have this same rule - I must say that I did not invent it, but borrowed it from the French system - I presented it a year and a half ago, exactly on March 15, 2013: it remained there a year and a half. It would have been possible to adopt it sooner if it had been found to be welcome and useful for making the judicial system more efficient. I'm proud of it, as they say when you're copied. If you do anything stupid, you're hardly copied. With regard to the closure of the judicial offices, Minister, I do not know how the matter has been dealt with, but look at it does not lead to savings. In order to achieve real savings, in fact, we have to put two plates on the old scale: we put everything on one side and the opposite on the other. Maybe if we close a location, we'll save in the rents and management of that place. But we must now consider that, while a magistrate was going there, moving from a central court to a detached office, now, vice versa, they must move, for every day of hearing, "n" lawyers, more "n" parties, more "n" victims, more "n" witnesses, more "n" defendants. We must, therefore, calculate the social costs of this transhumance, of this transfer of people, when only one person moved from the center to a detached section. I have been speaking to her since Trentino, where the orography of certain mountain areas is not exactly that of the plain: for all these people who must move and travel 30, 40, 50, 80 kilometers, maybe in winter time, it is not so easy to get justice. You talk about reform of the prescriptions, as if everything were a matter of delay in the hands of legal experts, lawyers, who would have all the interest in playing on the timing of the lawsuits. I do not know if they have given you the real data, Minister: 70% of the prescriptions are still in the investigation phase; in this case the lawyers are not involved, because they have not yet entered and have not yet been able to delay the dispute. 70% of the requirements are still being investigated. This could be a matter of structure, of staff. Do we have enough magistrates? Some say they could be implemented. Too bad, Minister, that there is still a plethora of judges who are out of office, who do not work with judicial functions, but mostly with administrative functions: they are the consultants of the independent authorities, ministries and legislative offices, which undoubtedly, with an important increase in remuneration, prefer to perform this second function rather than the judicial function. I could have a particularly harsh eye on the magistrates, but what I am saying is not just me, but also the Supreme Council of the judiciary, which even, in a 2008 note, referring to all magistrates out of function or assigned to extrajudicial functions, recommended that this phenomenon be brought back to normal, because it is now out of control. To it was to be placed an embankment. To date, 2015, I understand that absolutely nothing has been done to bring all the magistrates back to the judicial function and that all those out of office are still used for those functions. One might say that it is not only a matter of quantity of justice but there is also a quality problem. If we go to see, the quality is also very low. We know, for example, that since 1991 we have had legislation providing for compensation in the event of unjust detention, that is, when it was wrong to do the trial and to condemn the person. In 2014 there were 995 claims for compensation, for a total of 35,200,000 euros. This is maladministration, where other judges state that there has been an unjust application of the law. If we go to see how much money we're spending on the fact that we don't have the ability to manage all our prisoners in five-star prisons, maybe with a b.p. inside, but we have to keep them in uncomfortable cells, we notice that this costs us 8 euros a day of compensation for each inmate. This tells you a lot about how both the detention system and our judicial system are put in place. Someone has dared: but why this justice so grievous, why have to do three degrees of judgment? We abolish the appeal. In this way, undoubtedly, it would give a nice scissors. Too bad, though, if we look, 40% of the first-degree judgments are then overturned on appeal. Well, lively God, let's keep this appeal, luckily there is, because at least we have a guarantee for all these people who in the first instance saw themselves unjustly convicted, but who, at least in the second degree, have found justice. The justice we don't like is media justice, Minister, and that's in your hands. We do not like press conferences in stages when the prosecution is still a hypothesis and the responsibility is still to be ascertained; and perhaps these press conferences are managed by investigative magistrates. Here it would take a brake, because once a monster is created, once a media responsibility is created, there is not even justice that does justice or that renders justice to that unjust accusation that by now has mediated the greatest damage. Let's look at her on the citizen's side. You certainly know how the hearings take place: every day all the roles of hearing are fixed and, by chance, they are all fixed at the same time, knowing that not even the most efficient magistrate would be able to perform them and celebrate them all in the same morning and at the same time. So there are countless witnesses, defendants and victims, left waiting for hours and hours, until their turn arrives. It would take very little to manage a calendar and to ensure that this small part of justice dysfunction could be regulated. You have not even mentioned any mention, Minister, of Article 19- bis of the legislative decree implementing the tax delegation, in the matter of the decriminalisation of tax offences. Perhaps he was right not to mention you, because it is really a shameful page of Italian justice. This is a measure blocked by the President-in-Office of the Council, because, by chance, it affects one person. But did we not attend the university classrooms and hear us say that we are in a system of distribution of powers and, above all, in a system where the norm is general and abstract? If then in fact it touches or does not touch a particular person, opponent or friend it is, then let's say that in the books we write that the norm is general and abstract, but in fact everything is tailored. This is no longer tolerated by citizens. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please finish, Senator Divine. DIVINE (LN-Aut). I'm done, Madam President. Dear Minister, I would like to read you a small sentence, which I found very interesting: the magistrates are not the masters of the courts, but the citizen is the only master of the courts; and this landlord bears so much and in silence, but he certainly does not forget the experiences that made him live. Remember that, too. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Caliendo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u63	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u64	Madam President, in anticipation and in view of the various calls made to President Napolitano and his repeated messages and incentives to take decisive action to reform justice in our country, feeling in full harmony with his messages, I would like to express today my great satisfaction, and that of my colleagues in the Group for the Autonomous-PSI-MAIE, for his decision to join our Group. Minister, it is undeniable that you have impressed on your Ministry and the area of justice reform in our country a strong acceleration and it is equally undeniable that it is necessary to recognize you also an appropriate courage, given certain resistances and also given the climate that remains on the subject by many political forces that use the limitations and criticalities of our judicial system instrumentally. The objective situation is that of justice at various speeds in the different areas of our country, for the times of the processes, for the geographical distances between the institutions and the citizens who ask or suffer justice, for the quality of the performances and often unfortunately also for the denial of the justice itself, for the distorting and perverse effects of the prescription. You have identified organisational issues as central and priority. I fully agree with you, Minister. That is where the reform begins, from the facts and not from the words. The office of trial is fine, so it is necessary to give the office an adequate and qualified substance and dimension quickly. However, we must not forget, Minister (and I know that you have special attention, but the time is ripe for concrete answers), the more than 2,000 insecure justice people who have long been waiting for answers and who cannot maintain a just state in the conditions in which they are located. We must therefore work for the strengthening of administrative staff, for their qualification, for their remotivation, which has often failed in the face of disillusionment, loss of credibility and even of the promises made over the years. Transfers from other parts of the public administration are good, but always taking into account the professional quality, therefore the recognition of those who have already been committed from this point of view. There is a need for reasoning, Minister, with regard to the reform of judicial geography, as other colleagues have already done. The reform has produced good results, it must be known, but there are still some shadows that need to be removed quickly, and the credibility of the reform itself has to be undermined. There have been closures of wrong and unjust courts for citizens and territories and perhaps excesses of undeserved benevolence toward others. The statistical data you have also referred to, as well as those published in recent weeks, show that certain combinations have caused serious problems, inconveniences, the increase of the judicial backwardness, an absolutely unqualified response of the judicial performance that our system should guarantee - as mentioned before - to all citizens in the same way. A good reform is capable of self-correction; I therefore believe that the help that the Senate in particular will give to it with our bill, signed by all colleagues of all political forces to revisit the situation, will certainly be useful and necessary to give credibility to the reform actions. But let's get to the other issues. You rightly referred to the reform of the honorary judiciary. This is a situation on which delays have now accumulated three years in three years, from year to year. We must give stability and recognition to this absolutely indispensable service that the honorary judiciary gives to our country in the field of justice; we cannot remain in the present precariousness. At the same time, I think that we cannot overlook the situation of our prison system, while acknowledging that it has certainly recorded following the reforms proposed by you and supported by us, an overcoming of the criticalities that had led us to be sanctioned at European level; however, we must bear in mind that the reeducational purpose of the sentence is still very far away as a goal achieved within our prison system. 19.25 (BUEMI follow-up). We must humanize, of course, but also modernise and bring criminal detention to the constitutional end. We cannot save our conscience, Minister, with the presence of the Pinto law and the other compensations that we have added over the years in the face of failures by the State and some of its distracted servants. I believe that we must certainly give answers in that direction, but the main thing is to prevent compensation from being paid through the proper use of the resources that they would use, in order instead to do adequate action to strengthen our judicial system. A special consideration must be made with regard to psychiatric judicial hospitals. The law adopted in recent years by Parliament certainly had the right aims, but we must be realistic: I do not believe that we will quickly achieve the objectives without causing collateral damage; therefore, more concreteness and realism should lead us to reconsider some of the elements of that law, so that all citizens are guaranteed, not only those who suffer the serious discomfort of detention in the psychiatric hospital. With regard to the prescription, it is certainly necessary to revisit, Minister, particularly as regards the most serious offenses: it is not, however, an extension of the process. We need to find a way to review this situation, giving responsibility to the various stages of the process. It is clear that in the current situation the first phase of the process erodes the maximum times of the process, so we need to give to the subsequent ones - which are those of guarantee - the necessary times; at the same time, however, we cannot access to an extension of the times of the processes in our country, which are already long in an unacceptable way. Well, the non-penalty of small crimes: we cannot continue to think that every small infringement must be sanctioned, in particular by criminal prosecution, but, even where it is indispensable, we must give the judge the opportunity to assess in a timely manner the small crimes and those offences that, although of criminal importance, do not have a particular gravity. On this we could still extend, trying to provide solutions of an administrative nature: I believe that we must not entrust the entire sanctioning part to the criminal system, but we must also make sure that there is some other solution. There are certainly crimes that in recent years have had a growth of their danger both for the community and for the general interest of the country, but there are also others that need more effective sanctioning. Corruption and public administration offences therefore need special attention and rigorous evaluation. I think that those who commit serious crimes against the public administration cannot return to any public function, because it is clear that credibility and reliability are difficult to recover. Finally, Minister, I would like to draw attention to one element: the substantial inapplicability of the mandatory prosecution. We must have the courage to admit and to tell the truth: this constitutional principle of fact is not respected, but not because of the failure of the magistrates, but because of the objective difficulties and the workloads, as well as the complications of our procedures, which therefore overload in an unsustainable way... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Time's up, I'd ask you to synthesize. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I will conclude by drawing attention to the necessary reform of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, and the facts of these days are exemplary. In conclusion, Minister, yes to short divorce, but now the time for the adoption of the relevant bill must also be such. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Filippin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u65	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u66	Madam President, Minister (which I do not see, however, will come or read my speech), I certainly appreciated in the report the literary quote from our Beccaria, which reminded me of the possibility of another literary quotation about the intervention of the Minister: the old embellished one that appears in the essay "L'Umorismo" by Pirandello. The report actually describes a series of intentions and efforts and a framework in which it is broad and perfectly described throughout the world of the needs of justice which, according to Minister Orlando himself, is felt too often by citizens more as a trap than as a guarantee. The Minister then emphasizes in his speech how the problems are then those recognized by all: the length of the processes and the perception of the absence of legal certainty which, in my opinion, is to be linked to a low value that is given to legality today. Perhaps this is also related to the fact that for too long we have seen in our country that laws are built ad personam for the powerful, while the needs of the weakest and most fragile people or of the average working world are not taken into account. So we are talking about a reform that is perceived by everyone as necessary. The Minister rightly reminds us that Commissioner Katainen has welcomed reform and we must also say that it is finally a reform that would actually have the advantage of touching some central aspects of the country's life and not aspects that relate to interests more exquisitely linked to the world of politicians. The reform of justice is certainly something that has a profound impact on the living part of the country. However, I fear that, once again, the term'reform' is confused with the term'saving', because in reality, within this Report there are always small indicators that we find curiously every time this Government proposes reforms to us. For example, we find digitisation, which is proposed as a key factor in increasing the efficiency of justice, except that digitisation is only an instrument and cannot be dissociated either from appropriate investment or from adequate staff preparation, training and selection. I do not know what the situation is in the other regions, but in my Province, that of Reggio-Emilia, in order to have computers that effectively guarantee the digitization of the path of the audience, the council of the forensic order had to move because the contributions of the Ministry consisted in ridiculous figures. So my question is: will digitalization really be supported in practice or will computer science be, once again, a tool to confuse ideas and not promote the efficiency we would like? With regard to the preparation and selection of staff, we can certainly adopt mobility solutions and trainees, but we must not forget that first of all, theoretically but also practically, the trainee if he is to carry out a qualifying course for himself and useful also for the administration must be helped and supported and must be guided in the practical learning of an activity linked to his training path. It is clear that this does not imply a reduction in resources. The intern is not the solution to a greater number of practices; the intern can be a way of bringing those who are doing some training closer to the world of work and are interested in working in the same sector. Other paths, such as arbitration and assisted negotiation, in fact, in practice - it has also been repeated in this House - we see that they have very little impact at the moment because they involve cultural change. Therefore, we can hope that, in the future, there may be a cultural change in this direction, but we certainly cannot think that this is the solution today for a number of practices that will certainly not be destined to diminish. I do not know whether the figures that the Minister gives us about the decline in practices are linked to the use of alternative routes or, rather, to an increase in the costs of justice and to a lack of confidence in the justice system itself. That is: it may be that more and more citizens, rather than being recognized a right that becomes extremely expensive, prefer to be content not to worsen their situation and, therefore, accept a substantial lack of isonomy. In this, too, the path of subsidiarity, which the Minister speaks to us about precisely as an answer to the small amount of resources, seems to me to be a rather disturbing statement: it is for justice, as would also - too many times we have heard it - for health and education, because it actually opens the way for justice for the rich, for health for the rich and for education for the rich, instead of as many rights denied, or in any case made more difficult for the poor. In fact, as Mr Stefani has also said, I am very much afraid that, in the end, those who are weaker, in situations of this kind are feeling less and less protected and less encouraged to turn to the State. Everywhere there is also the idea that a minor crime has a lower value than a crime that, in some way, is quantified as heavier and more significant. For example, the Minister tells us about the re-introduction of fake into the budget. It is true that we are debating it here in the Senate, but it is also true that, by setting thresholds, we go to accredit the idea that a small fake in the budget is a lesser crime than a big fake in the budget. I believe that it should be recognised that, if there can be a different treatment depending on the extent of the damage caused, there must nevertheless be certainty that an offence is such and remains such. We also run this risk with delegated decrees concerning depenalizations. In fact, I believe that, precisely in order to confirm and rebuild in our society a sense of legality, we must always bear in mind that, if there is no sanction, there will be hardly even the perception of the existence of a rule because there will be difficult the perception of the infringement of a rule. With regard to how to intervene, the Minister speaks to us of self-cycling as something that is now law, but I would like to remind you, once again, that it is law but is not yet a crime, because - in fact - we have reached the fourth dimension here when we set up a crime that, in fact, is not yet such. We have established it for the future, but up to now, the crime of self-cycling is not such: it exists - yes - but it exists there in the air and, on the other hand, it has already been decriminalized. These aspects are somewhat incongruent, those cracks and wrinkles that, in fact, the old embellished leaves a glimpse, to look well. The impression is that there is a great desire to give an answer to those requests that are also linked to a media vision of government action; that we proceed with an urgent decree on individual situations (such as the return of capital), or by giving answers that are, more than anything else, of a media nature and that, then, are systematically watered down because they are the result of a negotiation that is not, in fact, the negotiation of parliamentary classrooms (while within our parliamentary classrooms there are several bills that lie). Even with regard to the whole anti-corruption package, it must be said that now the Government has moved and has tabled a number of amendments to the bill under discussion in the Commission, but it must also be said that that bill could already have been fired for some time by the Commission and perhaps also by the Assembly, if the Government itself had not expressed on several occasions its intention to intervene, having then always postponed its intervention. There are also problems concerning the clarity of the rules and the certainty of what we can call the distribution belt. We have approved - indeed, you have done so - the legislation on the return of capital from abroad, but already from this morning's news, the "Euroconference News" article speaks in an article on the grounds that preventvoluntary disclosure and refers to that formal knowledge of a criminal investigation procedure, which is precisely a subject on which we have debated in the Commission, because we wonder what exactly this formal knowledge refers to. In this article the Ministry is asked - also for other matters - to produce as quickly as possible explanatory circulars, to clarify what must be understood by these definitions, which we may insert in the regulations because they are the result of some compromise, but which then run the risk of weakening the clarity of the norm itself and of ensuring that all hierarchically inferior jurisprudence eventually becomes the reference case law for those who then these norms must use. The same is true of the compensatory remedy, which, theoretically speaking, would have ended the sanction imposed by the European Union as regards the inhumane treatment of prisoners, because these compensatory remedies and compensations are blocked by a procedure which - nobody escapes - has a component of difficulty. So I wonder if we really put ourselves in a position to close this sanction and whether we can morally feel good about it. As far as prison overcrowding is concerned, I must also say that the solutions that have actually been adopted have more the flavor of the buffer solution, especially as we are talking about the external execution of the sentence as a solution, but we do not give certainties and guarantees relating to the external execution system and to all the staff that must be involved, if we want this different way of performing the sentence - which is certainly more advanced and advanced - to give citizens the guarantees of success and can give them the tranquility that we surely all need. However, we have no guarantee that these bodies will be in a position to respond to the request, which will certainly increase in this area. The same can be said with regard to the subject of inmates' work. In this case, too, we believe it is appropriate, with regard to a penalty which has a rehabilitation function and which, if possible, also has the capacity to create a reintegration into society, to find some forms of greater coordination between the initiatives of the Ministry of Justice and all the territorial institutions, with which the Ministry must then dialogue, in order to find a way of employing the prisoners in the work of public utility. Similarly, there is little coordination with regard to the issue of judicial psychiatric hospitals (PDGs). In fact, it is a good thing to say that we will not give a further extension, but the situation of the OPGs has not improved at all and we all know it. A few days ago in the OPG of Reggio Emilia - my city - a boy died of suffocation. An investigation has been opened and certainly all the reasons will be investigated, but it is really important to point out that - at least to talk to operators within the OPGs - it does not seem that the provisions taken actually go in the direction of a lightening and that they really allow the possibility and the prospect of a closure of the OPGs. The fear is that this closure of the OPGs is nothing more than an operation, a kind of bed of Procuste that will not solve the problem first of all of the protection of citizenship against those who in any case need care, assistance, someone who helps them take the medicines, someone who supports them in a path outside the OPG itself. On the other hand, it does not seem to me that the regions have really and uniformly been active in the construction and commissioning of the REMS. The lack of coordination also concerns, for example, a subject such as the procurement code because in this House the procurement code has been assigned to the Commission public works and not to the Commission justice. I wonder if this is a way of proceeding that can then also guarantee us with respect to what may be the intersection of the two themes. Above all, I think it's really important that there are... presidents. It should conclude, Mr MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Sure, I'll finish. There are these and other issues that are partly the responsibility of Parliament's legislative work, and on this we would like to see the greatest cooperation from the Government so that these disciplines can go ahead and a truly adequate regulatory framework can be created for a changing society. I am talking about issues that have been mentioned in this House during the general debate: civil unions, de facto couples, short divorce. I am talking, that is, about a whole series of issues that deeply affect society in its folds and that, if we do not resolve, will undoubtedly give rise to further litigation. That's up to us. We ask the Government to be available, not to block but to favor and ensure that these draft laws can be discussed without becoming a commodity of exchange in majority and minority agreements. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator. MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Rather, we ask the Government to leave us autonomous, to work with us in legislative work and to take real responsibility for the implementation of this necessary reform, which is first and foremost economically supported, just as any reform must be. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u67	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u68	Madam President, I must acknowledge that the Minister has carried out a comprehensive, detailed, long-term report, which is not a waste of time, because he referred to Parliament about a series of civil and criminal events, which have gigantic reflections from the moral point of view, of the content, of the economy of our country. Justice is really a central issue, and I believe that the Minister has done well from civil justice, from today's Italian mechanism that civil justice is a reverse justice, that is, the wrong person has all the advantages of turning to the slowness of justice that he never decides, while for those who are right and pretend to have satisfied his reason the length of proceedings is a damage in itself. It becomes so ironic to say: sue me, then see me in court, by those who are wrong. Therefore, all attempts to streamline, modify and rationalise are absolutely to be supported. However, Minister, I also say that when we get to the point, for example to the staff, the choice of not having reconfirmed at the end of the year those socially useful workers, who for years had been engaged in the Chancellors, acquiring a professionalism recognized by the courts and prosecutors in years of commitment, so that they suddenly find themselves without work and the courts and prosecutors without their support, does not go in the direction of laws that must be fair but neither of structures that must be adequate. Then he went to the penalty, to a series of notes. Here too we must find the right way. A few days ago, the President of the National Anti-Corruption Authority said something about fake in the budget that I have heard from several colleagues (from Malan, for example): the proportion, the principle of offensiveness. We must adopt rules that punish those who commit crimes that are of social importance, that harm people, and distinguish these crimes from mere formalities. Unfortunately, in Italy, as you know, entrepreneurs, accountants, traders or artisans can find themselves in the tunnel of a tax dispute in order to find out, in the end, that the dispute that had been made about formalities was totally over the air, not true, with all the consequences that this however may entail. I also call on the Minister - and I take advantage of this - to review, together with the Minister of the Interior, the infernal mechanism of anti-mafia interdicts. In the case of anti-mafia interdicts, in fact, just as they were applied by the prefects in the North and as the TAR of Emilia Romagna has recognized, writing that we go to see affective relations with relatives and friends, the only consequence would be - I said it in this House and I repeat - that no entrepreneur or politician in the North regions could have relations with people who were born or who lived in Calabria, Sicily or Campania. In fact, the interdicts, with police reports, go to hit businesses and make them fail simply because, perhaps, it turns out that the employed, perfectly honest, laborer has a sentimental relationship with a woman who is the daughter or relative of a boss. We must review these mechanisms that, contrary to what happens in criminal matters, where there are three degrees of judgment and there are guarantees, are based on total and absolute discretion and not even of the Ministry of the Interior, but of the individual prefect. If we want to fight the Mafia, the 'ndrangheta and the Camorra, we cannot theorize, as it has been done, that in Modena and Reggio Emilia - which would have been militarily occupied by the Mafia, the Camorra and the 'ndrangheta - the minds of 1,500,000 people would also have been occupied by the Mafia, so we would all succubi, then building, on the basis of this, theorems that are not good for the fight against the Mafia, the Camorra and the 'ndrangheta: in fact, when honest citizens are struck, the mafia, the Camorra and the 'ndrangheta are not hit, but the credibility of the institutions. As far as minor crimes are concerned, let us take a serious look at them. I have seen all the controversies created by the animalists with respect to the proposal that has been made, that we will deepen and that we will see how it is. There are, however, crimes that are growing in the North, Minister: I am thinking of the robbed houses, which are creating a considerable social alarm. What I want to say is that, while decriminalizing, we must also find satisfactory answers to a phenomenon of thousands and thousands of thefts taking place in the houses: I speak about it because I have suffered two thefts in a year and, therefore, I know it from experience. You know very well that the phenomenon is widespread and that, when strangers penetrate the house, maybe at night or maybe when the children are in bed, throwing the house in the air, not only is the intimacy of the house violated, but a syndrome, a fear, a discomfort and a widespread terror is born: all this in some way must be stopped. Often then the Police and the Carabinieri tell you that these gangs of Slavs come to Italy because they essentially risk nothing compared to what they would risk in their country, Albania or Romania, so - for them who fear prison - we have almost the security of impunity. Therefore, while there are some criminal offences that do not actually cause any social alarm, on the other hand it would be necessary to give serious answers to a discomfort, to a terror that grows among people with respect to this new forms of crime. I would also like to say - and I am beginning to conclude - about the very delicate issues which have been referred to several times and which concern the Scalfarotto law, which is being discussed in the Justice Commission, civil unions, that is to say, all matters relating to these issues. I say two things, calling me also to the topicality and, in particular, to the incredible initiative of the tribunal of Perugia, which censored with a preemptive seizure a page of the website of the Forum of Family Associations of Umbria, guilty of containing the video of a speech by Simone Pillon, member of the director of the Forum itself who, in a speech held in Assisi in front of the mayor and the bishop of the city, complained about the distribution, to fifteen-year-old boys in a school in Perugia and without the consent of the principal, of images that represented rawly two naked boys embraced each other or two girls next to each other and the system of lubricants to be used when they have anal relationships for not having any damage, as well as a series of addresses in which to practice certain things. The court found the grounds for ordering the seizure of excess irony in the complaint of that activity. It is not that someone has therefore been concerned to go and kidnap in schools that material distributed to the children; they were concerned to go to strike with censorship the opinion of the Forum family associations, which is the largest Italian network of family associations - that of the Family Day - because he dared to criticize this type of initiative. We are all excited about French affairs, and we are confronted, Minister, with an initiative of this kind by the judiciary. Why do I say that? Because I demand - and I say this clearly and strongly - the right and duty of Parliament to enact laws, and it is not that Parliament is late, as the magistrates explain when they issue creative judgments. For example, the adoption law was unanimously passed by the House and Senate ten years ago and the boundaries of adoptions (who could adopt, the need for a family, a father and a mother, married people and the impediment for homosexual couples) were meditated, discussed and deepened and the legislator decided. The legislator can very well change, but be careful, Minister... (The minister converses with Senator Simeoni.) ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As long as Article 29 is in force, as the Constitutional Court has repeatedly reiterated, marriage in Italy is between men and women. If so, the Minister of the Interior does well to avoid the transcription of marriages contracted abroad by homosexuals, because our legal system does not allow it. And as long as Article 29 of the Constitution applies, the draft law on civil unions, which overlaps with marriage because it fully identifies them with all the norms of marriage, is not acceptable unless the Constitution is first amended. Let it be clear, then, that there is no government agreement with the attempts to introduce surreptitiously not so much the equality of rights and duties and non-discrimination, on which we agree to find all the systems imaginable... [[Senator Giovanardi's microphone automatically switches off. The President shall arrange for its reactivation.]] Therefore: not the uterus for rent, not the buying-in of production factors so that a paid child can be assembled with the exploitation of the pain, discomfort and poverty of the third world. We are absolutely opposed to this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u69	You should finish, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u70	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). On one thing they all agreed in the Commission, both those who came to speak in favour and against: that text of law inevitably, with a case-law evolution of the next Constitutional Court, would open the door to these phenomena. Well, it is quite clear that we are absolutely opposed to putting ourselves on this line. We are in favour of anti-discrimination rules and we are opposed to a comparable marriage to that provided for in the Constitution, unless the text of the Constitution is democratically changed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u71	Minister, I believe that your report starts from a tragic misunderstanding: in this country the problem has never been the quantity of litigation; the problem of this country, especially in the civil process, is the amount of litigation that has not been overcome. We lack the word "inevaded" which outlines another concept. Mr Minister, coming to this House and boasting a figure such as the drop in litigation at a time of great crisis should make us reflect on what is happening. It is not a result that can be boasted, especially if it has been achieved by imposing class justice, putting an abnormal barrier to access to justice, which is that of the census, with the double maneuver of the unified contribution - which is an immoral act - and the sanctions approved towards legal aid, which has been brutally halved not to say cancelled. It starts from a completely wrong fact because there is a demand for justice in this country and coming here and boasting as a result the abolition of 68 percent of the judicial offices is boasting to bring this country back to pre-Roman barbarism. Our country, Minister, was born of a culture that saw its center in the cities and the center of these cities was the forum, where citizens enjoyed a privilege, which was the right, Minister. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] That forum that we are preventing, closing, whose access we are foreclosure to a large mass of citizens, Minister, who now do not understand why they pay their taxes: perhaps to be protected by Carabinieri, who are no longer there because you closed the barracks, or by the police, who are no longer on the streets because they do not have cars, gasoline, there are no police stations, to have justice in the courts that you closed? No, Minister, citizens think that they pay taxes only to keep privileged people, their quirks and their greed: that's what they're thinking. And let us tell you, Minister, this distortion of the vision of justice has a very precise name and surname: conflict of interest. We, in the Ministry of Justice, no longer want to see all these judges, who correspond to about 60-70 percent of the executives. The judges must sit in the courts and do what the citizens pay them for: ius dicere. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The other conflicts are those of the lawyers' and public employees' lobby of the Ministry of Justice that all together, of course, have an interest in staying where it suits the most; in the big cities. You see, Minister, justice is not administered on behalf of Italian judges, Italian lawyers, chancellors, but is administered on behalf of the Italian people and must be administered where the people are born, lives, works and dies in the cities. Now, Minister, that drop in litigation you see, do you know what that corresponds to? It corresponds to an increase in crimes, because people still desperate in the face of the withdrawal of the State, is addressed to someone who, in the territories where the State is no longer there, regulates the disputes brutally and effectively. That is the reality. This explosive combination of decriminalization, of the impossibility of arresting people who commit new crimes even before they are convicted for the precedents, this closure of judicial offices, barracks of the Carabinieri, this reduction of personnel is an explosive mixture in our country. In our city, Minister, there was a life sentence sentenced to ten years at home, a villa with a swimming pool, serving the sentence. Catania's Mafia District Attorney told us, Salvi. And what took him to get him back to his cell? A very dangerous mobster. This is our order, this is what we are risking. And then, Minister, it must be remembered that the Charter of Human Rights does not contain the right of limitation, it does not find it if it reads the Charter of Human Rights. There is the right to a court ruling, which is something else. The right to limitation is sought by the guilty defendants, not by those who have a clean record and a clear conscience. It is the saint of the scoundrels the prescription, and you are reducing an institute born for good purposes, transforming it and disfiguring it into a hateful mockery that follows the harm of the crime, to the detriment of the unarmed citizens, a mockery that as such is lived and as such will be swept away sooner or later by the citizens, with an unjust act, but that will be inevitable because of you. One thing, however, as we have said, we share this view: the abolition of the extraordinary Commissioner for emergency in prisons. We thank you, Minister, for accepting one of our battles. But we always arrive after years: we said it immediately, as soon as the previous Minister came to the Commission that the extraordinary commissioner for the emergency prisons was a criminal act, it served only for the umpteenth division of bribes and contracts outside the rules. How did it end? With the intervention of the judiciary, punctual and precise, which affects every extraordinary commissioner and of course with the abolition. All you had to do was listen to the opposition. We, Minister, are for justice that is close to the citizens, but not in words and chatter, as one colleague said, who has cheerfully voted for the dismantling of justice. Justice must be where citizens live and work, not the opposite; it must be at the service of citizens. It is not the citizens who are in the service of justice: this must be understood quickly and quickly, Minister. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u72	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u73	Minister, I have very much appreciated some of the passages in your report, mainly those in which you speak of dialogue, overcoming the political confrontation, of certain necessities. You see, even this joint reflection - let us call it this - that was introduced a few years ago with a Report by the Minister of Justice probably deserves a reflection, given the little attention paid not only by Members, but also by the press and citizens. Justice must be rendered differently. You have rightly had to report on what the Ministry has done, but I believe that at the next sitting, with your commitment, we could also amend the law: without resolutions, but with a report by the Minister to be deposited, and after ten days we could have a debate on general principles, some of which have been mentioned here. I am just talking about those, but allow me only to reflect on what you have said. You have brought in data that will have to be evaluated and verified, statistics that relate to cases, on the whole, less than 5 million, pending at the judicial offices. First of all, we're going to have to make an assessment, and that's what Senators Filippin and Buemi have already said. Parliament, with its help when you were not yet Minister, has identified nine inconsistencies in the revision of the districts, which had to be resolved by an intervention covering territorial competence, but not according to bell-tower criteria to save one court instead of another, so check whether the statistical data on those areas bring us a worse result than the previous data or better in that area as well. Secondly, you, Minister, say that trials have been reduced. How much impact has the difficulty of access to justice that has been created in our country with the increase of the unified contribution, with a series of legislative interventions, also in this legislature, that dissuade from the judicial initiative? I would just like to remind you that in the 1980s, in Riva del Garda, I attended a conference in the presence of almost all the European countries where access to justice was discussed. The aspect of access to justice placed Italy among the most democratic and most guaranteed countries because this is democracy: access to justice, not justice close to citizens. In fact, justice has its own feature of empire. However, as far as general matters are concerned, Minister, this year we have witnessed the ignorance of those who write in the newspapers, the ignorance of the debate or sometimes the exploitation of certain expressions in order to achieve certain different results. Let me give you an example: with regard to the civil liability of the judges, I had proposed that the case should also be considered if the judge had not taken into account the principles established by the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation. Someone said that we wanted judicial conformism; it is not the fault of those who said it because he ignores that in our country the foundation of the freedom of decision of the judge is precisely that of being able to deviate from the rule established by the Court of Cassation to United Sections, with specific motivation. This was done by the Supreme Council of the judiciary in the disciplinary section of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and this distinguishes the current judiciary from the fascist one, which was hierarchical. Those are the rules. At the same time, Senator Buemi says something sacrosanct about the rules: there are behaviors, even judges. But on the de facto discretion of prosecution, I have to challenge Senator Buemi: the intelligent magistrates are not happy, those who are called real magistrates. A magistrate who is aware of his role cannot fail to agree that, when there is discretion, he cannot compete with the judge, the magistrate who guarantees impartiality. The magistrate cannot be partial, he cannot have discretion. Discretion is about political power, political responsibility. Where there is discretion, there must be responsibility, strong, political. In the same way, how can we imagine that we only reason in terms of fighting corruption or major crime in terms of punishment? Yesterday I was pleased to hear President Canton say that he is not interested in increasing the penalties, which is wrong. Having been part, even on appeal, of all the procedures of Clean Hands, I remember what was the logic that made the penalty effective: the penalty is an element that must be perceived as just and fair by the criminal, by the one who is corrupt and by the one who corrupts, by the mob. If the penalty is not correct, it is not fair, it is unbalanced with respect to the system no longer has deterrent because it is not perceived as fair. People vulgarly in the street wonder why Guy killed one and takes twenty years and the other takes twenty for the same crime? These are decisions perceived as unjust. I must, then, defend the Minister, but not because I want to defend him, but always for general reasons. When the penalty is fair, it is fair, the so-called criminality thresholds are relevant. Look, the criminality threshold determines an objective relevance or irrelevance of the conduct for the purposes of the criminal penalty. Why is this rule more just than that for which the magistrate would evaluate the tenuity of the fact? Do you realize that? There is discretion. The threshold, on the other hand, identifies an objective criminal relevance, which does not lend itself, therefore, to a different assessment. I have always supported the thresholds of criminality not today but since I was magistrate as a guarantee of the correct application of minimum criminal law. In conclusion, Minister, how can we not think of staff? I disagree with Senator Giarrusso when he said to throw the magistrates out of the Ministry. The autonomy and independence of the judiciary are built with a series of guarantees. We can certainly set certain maximum limits of permanence, as I have had responsibility for this in the past legislature, even if they have not been respected by the Ministry itself. I fully agree with the introduction of maximum permanence limits. By saying instead that we can exclude the magistrates from some areas of that Ministry, it indirectly affects the same guarantee of independence and impartiality of the jurisdiction. I come to the conclusion: you have a certain number of staff and as the precarious have already said, we had solved the issue thanks to Parliament's intervention, with the help of the Government. It is not possible to think that there is no solution for these people. After two years we were able to find a solution that guaranteed no more than 250 euros per month. I hope that the Minister will have the opportunity to intervene within the trial office, knowing very well that a training course is no longer possible after three years. But what matters most - that is why I am talking about general principles - is the fact that the staff of the Ministry of Justice, Department of the Organization, is the only staff of the State administration that has not had a redevelopment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u74	You should finish, Senator Caliendo.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u75	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I have concluded, Madam President. Is it possible to think of a redevelopment of law, by transferring from here to three or four years the guarantee to pay the economic treatment to the legal guarantee? [[Applause from Senators Amidei and Barani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u76	Senator Lumia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I very much appreciated the non-bureaucratic approach of the Minister on the evils of Italian justice, let us say non-negatorist and non-minimalist. I prefer a minister to tell the truth, to have a serious idea of the problems present and to indicate in Parliament a place where we can get the data out, make proposals and define legislative and administrative paths. Colleagues, the Minister finally proposes the end of a dispute: security and freedom. Yes, the demand for security in the citizens is well matched by the demand for more guarantees; in politics - alas - for many years we have opposed these two important aspects, both resource for each other. The Minister invites us to reflect and it is now widely demonstrated that there is a direct correlation between the Italian crisis and the state of justice. Let us put it on the positive side: one way out of the crisis is the radical reform of justice. Colleagues, it is undeniable that the past one has been a year in which the engine of the reforms, between thousand difficulties, has set in motion. I'd like to pick up some data again. Firstly, there has been a reduction in the number of prisoners, to date to 53,000. Think: we were at 70,000 and no one bet on the idea that we would fall below 60,000 without resorting to amnesty and indult. Think a bit about the telematic process, which seemed like a chimera, impossible to carry out in our country; instead the telematic process started. One thing struck me, Minister, and I would like to point out here: the reduction from 61 to 37 directors-general of the Ministry, something almost impossible. There have been years and years of discussion on the trial office, years and years of evaluation, then on the facts nothing; now finally this modern organization of our justice has begun. However, I would like to highlight not only these contents that have been indicated, but above all the method, Minister: dialogue with the main actors of the Government and the administration of justice (the magistrates, lawyers, administrative staff), dialogue with all the political forces of majority and opposition. Parliament did not have a passive role, as a brake, but also the Senate was able to play an active role and implement the same proposals of the Government: think about what has been done on decriminalization, on self-recycling, on article 416 -ter of the penal code, on the increase of penalties, on assisted negotiation, on civil rights, on the introduction of the crime of torture. It is, in short, a Senate that is not watching, that discusses, reflects, makes proposals and in some cases corrects the Government too. The motor of the reforms, Minister, must now increase its laps: we are just at the beginning, as I said at the beginning when I introduced this intervention, and 2015 must be the year of the great leap in quality. As far as the judicial organization is concerned, we have always told you on judicial geography to be careful, to evaluate its implementation as soon as possible, because if there are any corrections we must not be afraid of, we must not wait for the results to be negative; we are ready to do so, without bell towers and without discounts. The same applies also to the staff, the precarious, the telematic organization, which must be even stronger, and the managerial organization of the offices. Minister, we also believe that the European legal area is now mature; it has taken account of the work that has been done and, despite the fact that we no longer have the Presidency, it has sown itself well and therefore we must reap the benefits. I am referring to the European legal area, both in the field of anti-mafia and corruption. Minister, the reforms of the civil process and criminal proceedings can no longer wait. A modern country must be able to measure itself also on this; it will not be easy, but on this objective we must give our best, so in the fight against mafias and corruption, intervening on prescription and increase of the penalties, that they marry well with a cultural and preventive phase (it is not true that the two things go in contrast), so on the regime referred to in article 41-bis of the penitentiary order and also on the aggression to the great assets of the corrupt and the mafia. There is, however, also a period of civil rights to be brought into this House at last. We're ready. How can we not restate that Parliament must give a positive response to the short divorce and civil unions in order to align ourselves with the great countries, with the advanced democracies? At the same time, we must say something serious and concrete about the fight against homophobia, about the adoption of children by foster families; we are also ready to transpose environmental crimes into our code. I mean, the weather has changed. In this House for years the clash has been on the autonomy and independence of the judiciary, on the ad personam laws. Minister, pay attention to the tailstrokes. We will be very careful with regard to the fake in the budget to prevent the thresholds from bringing back from the window what we are looking together with you and the government to keep out of the door. That is why the relationship between the Government and Parliament is vital. That is why the design dimension, the verification of results and working together on reforms must take over more and more. It is true; I agree: perhaps we must also change the mode of organization of this liturgy of ours; it is true, in the past this was the time of the clash and the benches were full: perhaps having that conflict no longer makes the attention a little lower. Then, we can remedy by making sure that there is time for a broad and profound discussion, without the final vote, because we are all called to the same responsibility: to serve our country, radically improving the justice system in all its components and in all its actors [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u78	The debate is closed. I communicate that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Zeller and Susta, No 2, Senator Stefani and other Senators, No 3, Senator De Petris and other Senators, and No 4, Senator Buccarella and other Senators, whose texts are distributed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u79	Colleagues, I warn you that, according to the agreements between the Groups, the Minister's reply and explanations of vote, as well as the vote on the motions for resolutions will take place tomorrow morning from 9.30 a.m. The afternoon sitting of tomorrow will then be taken off in relation to the simultaneous meeting of a parliamentary group, at the request of the same group. The discussion of bill No. 1385 of reform of the electoral law will resume in the afternoon session of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u82	VACCARI (PD). Madam President, although the House is empty, I would like to recall a date, Sunday 19 January 2014, that Modena will not forget: it is imprinted in our mind, along with others, such as 20 and 29 May 2012, which for us Emilians means fear and destruction, but also a sense of duty, humility, strength and mutual assistance. I asked to intervene because a year ago the territory of Modena was hit by a devastating flood: the collapse of the right bank of the river Secchia caused the flood of some hamlets of Modena and of vast areas in seven municipalities, including Bastille and Bomporto the most affected; a man, Oberdan Salvioli, lost his life while he was engaged to lend the first reliefs, and very serious were the damage to housing, businesses and public works. It is the condition of those same subjects and territories that, while they were rising up after the shock immediately from the 2012 earthquake, were brought back to their knees by a sudden event with very significant dimensional consequences: 1,000 volunteers engaged in rescue operations, 180 firefighters, 150 army soldiers activated by the prefecture, dozens of municipal, provincial and regional administrators involved from the first minute in giving adequate responses to citizens and businesses. Our thanks go to them, warm and heartfelt for the commendable work and the prompt response given to thousands of citizens and businesses: 600 farms, for 10,000 hectares of submerged land, in a territory full of the most valuable productions of local agriculture, 1,400 companies with about 5,000 employees, on which a trumpet would have arrived a few months later. As with the earthquake, I quote the director of the "Gazzetta di Modena" (Gazzetta di Modena), Enrico Grazioli, with yesterday's editorial: "Modena and Emilia have not shed tears, but have dried up roads, houses and sheds, and have fought. They fought to obtain the funds necessary for a reconstruction made of thousands of small and less small interventions and to put the care of the territory back to an acceptable step in the scale of priorities of those who govern. It has not been easy, as for the earthquake: if we look at what it has been, if we think about the figures of the damage and treatment already planned, we see that many concrete and innovative steps forward have been made, with the commitment of everyone, citizens, businesses and institutions, with humility, perseverance and even the ingenuity to find practical solutions. For the first time, with Decree-Law No. 4 of 2014, 210 million euros of resources have been allocated for the compensation damages caused by a flood, of which more than 50 million for the private, 15 for 52 yards concluded on the banks of the rivers, another 23 million always for the banks for interventions in course of programming, 80 million for the damages to the productive activities, 7,5 million for the restoration of the damaged public works and the social public structures. The remaining resources will be used for further security interventions. What about the citizens? In December last year, less than a year after the flood, thanks to the work done by the municipalities, they have already received a first part of the compensations and by January another 1,000 payments should be made compared to private individuals who have already submitted the expenditure documentation. As with the earthquake, in conclusion, Madam President, the plans to strengthen the defences have, however, started, at the same time completing the framework of knowledge on stability and resistance of the margins. In other words, we have shown that money to make up for and restore can be spent well because investing in prevention can be an opportunity to improve our living conditions and also create work. We now need a new law for natural disasters, starting with the bill at the first signature of my colleague Chiara Braga, who will begin the examination in the House on Thursday, who will treasure our experience on the earthquake and the flood, as well as other experiences that in our country have been able to react positively and effectively. This would be the best answer to honor Oberdan Salvioli, along with the many mourning that these tragedies have brought with them. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u85	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Madam President, yesterday, Sunday, 18 January, two Italian fishing vessels, both from Sicily, the "Jonathan" of Syracuse and the "Alba Chiara" of Cagliari (located in Riposto, in Catania), were seized in Egypt by the local authorities. It seems that on board the boats there are Italian citizens and that the detention took place because the vessels would have entered Egyptian territorial waters without authorisation. According to a note issued by the regional president of the association of professional marine fishermen of Catania, from the satellite instrumentation on board the two boats were found to be in international waters. The most curious thing is that the members of the two crews to date, until a couple of hours ago, had not yet come into contact with any representative of the Italian State, or of the Sicilian Region or with someone who informed them of the state of operations for their repatriation and for the decapitation of the boat. I guess they feel abounded. I would like to announce a question on this fact to know what the Government intends to do to give a breakthrough in the security of fisheries in the Mediterranean Sea, since it is not the first of these episodes and, in the absence of incisive interventions, it risks not being the last. Above all, I would like the Government to report to the House on the situation of these people and on what is being done to bring them back to their homeland.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u88	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, I will be very brief, asking you to be able to attach the full text of my speech to the report. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. CASTALDI (M5S). I wanted to denounce the story of a citizen, Romeo Raimondi, resident in my Province, who suffered serious illegality and irregularities in the Municipality of Termoli, where he ran a small business within a shopping center called "La Fontana": he has been waiting for justice and answers for twenty-two years. I would just point out that there is already an act of inspection union in 1986, which remained unanswered, to the Ministry of Industry at that time. I leave to the record the summary of this affair, which has lasted for twenty-two years, hoping that the citizen Raimondi and all those who are in a similar situation will obtain, if not justice, at least a response from the State. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u89	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-378.ana.u90	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Tuesday 20 January, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.35 p.m.
