ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10.13 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u3	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft Constitutional Act No 1429-B, which was first approved by the Senate and first amended by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u6	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking under Rules 8, 97 and 104 of the Rules of Procedure. This morning I sent you a letter contesting the admissibility and admissibility of amendment 39,1000, tabled by the Government, and now I will try to make you understand why. First of all, I do not think you should have received the text either because in Article 10, relating to Article 70 of the Constitution, the fourth line reads one of the many grammars present within the provision: "and the other constitutional laws, and only". When I was in high school (I attended classical high school) this was considered a blue error because the term "e" is a conjunction and joins, the comma is a disjunctive element and therefore would make no sense. Entering the substance of the amendment, we take a paragraph 10 which objectively has nothing to do with the subject then dealt with, so much so that it begins with the incipit: "Also for the purposes referred to in this paragraph": in the paragraph are specified the various periods and procedures of application of the preventive appeal to the Constitutional Court for which the sentence "Even for the purposes referred to in this paragraph" has absolutely nothing to do with it. Also in the amendment of the Government we read: "the term referred to in article 39, paragraph 6". I am therefore going to read the relevant text, because it is one of those who received the double resolution in accordance with it. It reads: The law referred to in the sixth paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution, as amended by Article 2 of this Constitutional Law, shall be approved within six months of the date of the election of the Chamber of Deputies referred to in paragraph 4 of this Constitution. Amendment 39,1000 presented by the Government states: "the term referred to in Article 39, paragraph 6 - or within six months of the election of the Chamber - starts from the date of entry into force of this Constitutional Law." What happens as a result? In the first place there is the paradox that in the article is present the same temporal term that starts however from two completely different moments: in paragraph 6 of Article 39 it is said within six months from the date of the holding of the elections of the Chamber of Deputies, in paragraph 10 it is said, instead, within six months from the date of entry into force of this constitutional law. Well, I think that writing the Constitution has to include completely opposite deadlines is a legal nonsense. Even if I had to overcome the legal nonsense, it is clear that through the intervention of paragraph 10 we go to touch paragraph 6 in which we read: "within six months from the date of the holding of the elections of the Chamber of Deputies, that nothing has to do with the sentence within six months from the date of entry into force of this constitutional law". So an artifice was used to modify paragraph 6. Among the principles that have governed, on the basis of Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, eligibility in the Commission and in this House has prevailed the non-eligibility of the paragraphs not modified by the Chamber of Deputies, except in contradicent nemine and in that case the contradictory was the Democratic Party. In this case, since we are going to change paragraph 6 of Article 39, the contradictory is me. I'm not gonna take that kind of crap right at the end of everything we're writing. So, Mr President, I am also available for an opening, and I would not oppose it if, according to the principle of contradictive nemine, we go to the right place and write the rules correctly. Otherwise, I object. I have made this speech in the Chamber and sent that letter because the acts of the constituent phases then become acts that matter in the examination of the Constitutional Court, when it evaluates this measure (which will certainly end up under the scrutiny of the Court), or become elements of reflection for the President of the Republic, when it is to sign this law, which will have been approved - I hope that this will not happen - by means of artifices, cheating and any type of incorrect instrument. Finally, Mr President, for those who are content with these tricks, this is no longer even a plate of lentils, because they made him smell only the slice of salami. Someone tell me what the hell is going to happen if Parliament doesn't do state law and the regions don't do regional laws. Paragraph 1 of Article 39 will apply, or it will happen that the regional councillors, regardless of any indication of the people, will choose between them who will go for Roman holidays. This will happen because, once this legislature has expired, those who will be called to write state and regional law are the same regional councillors who divide the place of senators. I believe that once we report the problem, we can't ignore it. I do not think that the government, which is now dressed in white, can do this, and I do not think that the Presidency and this House should either.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u7	We greet the students of the bilingual Italian School of Sydney, their teachers and their accompanying parents, who follow our work in the forums. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u10	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, Senator Calderoli took the words out of my mouth, almost as if we had agreed before, because he said the same things that I wanted to say. However, I would like to appeal to you, Mr President, but not as President, but as a man with a respectable legal culture. I am sure that you will have read this amendment and that you will not have relied solely on the judgment of the Government and the offices of the Presidency, which certainly do a fine job. Finding in the same law and article, in two paragraphs one after the other, paragraph 6 and paragraph 10, a contradiction (because that is) is something that cannot be seen in a law of reform of the Constitution. I say this as Voghera's housewife would say: you can't see it. Mr President, paragraph 6 expressly states that national law in order to identify how senators should be chosen must be done within six months of the date of the next elections. Later, in a kind of repentance or re-evaluation - I don't know how to define it - it is said: no, we were wrong and the term referred to in Article 39 starts from the date of entry into force of this law. Oops, something's wrong here, there's an internal decoupling from the same law. It is certainly a "beard trick," which Renzi has used to us many times and which is also used in this case, to try to remedy those regulatory cages in which we of oppositions have been placed. This is in fact to modify in an artificial way another paragraph, which could not have been modified. At this point, let us be very frank that, if you really have to write this text, at least try to do it well. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So, go and amend paragraph 6, go and amend paragraph 1. What could be the consequence? What would we also ask to make some changes? However, instead of having an amendment and twenty sub-amendments, Mr President, we will have twenty amendments. He puts one to the vote and the others are foreclosed. Perhaps it would have been done sooner and better and there would have been no illegible text. As we had asked you from the beginning, it would have sufficed to speak on paragraph 1, to which I had tabled five amendments pursuant to Article 100 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate on the basis of the principle of correlation. I think other groups could have introduced them, as well as the government. It would have been enough to accept the amendments to paragraphs 1 and 6 to avoid this clowning. I wonder how this law can be interpreted correctly by those who read it. We're gonna open some incredible rifts for any appeals. We are also talking about the fact that there is no sanctioning system and we have tabled amendments to that effect. You know what's gonna happen by leaving this window open. I have already told you many times the case of the Lombardy Region, which for eight years has not legislated in electoral matters and there are those who make four mandates, instead of maximum two as provided by the framework law in this matter. Honestly, the presence in the same bill of these two paragraphs is really a typical case of disassociation. As we would say here in Rome: make peace with your brains. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u13	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, my colleague, Mr Crimes, spoke of disassociation, while I would use the exact medical term: this is a legislative schizophrenia. Mr President, without focusing too much on this subject and with respect for everyone, I am frankly surprised that this amendment has not been declared inadmissible. I say this for a very simple reason. There have been a number of amendments which were declared inadmissible - on yesterday's occasion we had further proof of this with reference to Article 33 - which were intended to make amending contents, but they were absolutely within the rules and the system of the article on which they intervened. With this amendment of the Government, while not intervening on paragraph 6, it is actually modified. In this way we will find ourselves with an article 39 in which paragraph 6 provides for deadlines (-approved within six months) and with an amendment of the Government that provides to add to paragraph 10 (which, moreover, has nothing to do with paragraph 6) the sentence: For the purposes of this paragraph, too, the following definitions shall apply: It really is an artifice. We could put ourselves in a position to "displace" a large number of amendments tabled in modified and declared inadmissible amendments. This could be done with reference, for example, to the amendments to Articles 57 and 70 of the Constitution. By the way, we should understand whether there will be a clear interpretation in the end, as there is a risk of an infinite discussion since two different things are laid down in the same article. In addition, another operation is being carried out in the measure, because this amendment also amends Article 2, which deals with Article 57 of the Constitution. Mr President, when we contested a number of inadmissibilitys, you took responsibility for explaining why some of the amendments had been declared inadmissible. Frankly, I do not know whether we should appeal, but certainly no law can do such a thing, even though we are accustomed to legislative confusion. The question which we, and not only, have set out very clearly should have been dealt with in this constitutional reform. In fact, we are accustomed to the fact that on 23 December the law of stability is approved and, tending, with the decree of 27 December, some of the norms contained in it are modified. At least, however, this is done by a later measure. Instead, in this case, two paragraphs will appear in the same article in contradiction with each other. So, what do you think you're doing? A coordination, which eventually changes everything? Mr President, I am saying this out of respect for all of us and also for the quality of regulatory action. The Senate has always been characterized by the quality of legislative work, thanks to the expertise and valuable work of our officials and offices. We cannot do such things precisely in the Constitutional Review Act: I believe that this is absolutely unacceptable. It is not that politics can win and, since an agreement has been reached, it can put itself above the legal order, the rules and the legislative rationality. This is absolutely not acceptable, especially since we have reached the end of a path, where the number of amendments declared inadmissible is enormous and many of them were much more appropriate than the one we are discussing. In addition, this story demonstrates one thing and I address in particular my colleagues in the PD minority. It is clear to everyone that, if there had been a will, the debate on Article 2 could have been reopened quietly and in an orderly manner, and then done a serious job. These surreptitious interventions, which will only lead to confusion, will be one of the blackest pages in the history of the Senate and the legislative production of the country. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u16	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we certainly share the concerns expressed by my previous colleagues regarding the admissibility - or inadmissibility - of Amendment No 39.1000, which would leave two completely contradictory and contradictory rules in the text of the Constitutional Charter. We realize that there has been an effort to connect, as always within the Democratic Party, but in my opinion it has not marked what should have been the surrender of the Government compared to requests of different tone, with respect to the approved text. Mr President, I shall confine myself to this brief comment and put two interpretative questions, which could help us. In paragraph 10, approved by the Chamber of Deputies, which now proposes to amend further, there is an issue, which I do not define as "truffalda," because it would be an exaggerated term, but which certainly marks the impossibility of applying the rule concerning the possibility to challenge before the Constitutional Court the electoral law of the Senate of the Republic. While, the legislation for the election of the Chamber of Deputies, Italicum, is already law and therefore it is certainly to be postponed, within ten days of the approval of this constitutional law, before the Constitutional Court, the law governing the election of senators, being certainly enacted after the approval of this constitutional law, will not be able to benefit from the ten-day deadline for referral to the Court, as strictly establishes the first part of paragraph 10 of Article 39, according to which: In the first application, in the current parliamentary term on the date of entry into force of this Constitutional Law, on a reasoned appeal lodged within 10 days of that The entry into force of this constitutional law constitutes the dies a quo and, therefore, takes ten days in which I can challenge an electoral law of the House and Senate, according to what the text later says, but in reality I only have the Italicum to send to the Constitutional Court. And, in fact, as provided for in the same amendment tabled by the Government, I have six months to make the Senate election law, and since it will certainly be passed within those six months - at least it is hoped that this will happen - it is still approved after ten days. The forecast of the possible referral to the Constitutional Court of the electoral law of the senators is a completely unworkable forecast. In this case, therefore, intellectual honesty - of the Government, of the majority and of those who draw up the final text - should lead to: No, gentlemen, this is absolutely not workable and, therefore, we cancel the prediction that we can bring to the Constitutional Court the law of election of senators, which then, according to the amendment presented, takes place in two stages, the national parliamentary and the application by the Regions. This is, therefore, absolutely unenforceable. Having said that, in the Government's amendment, it is not written that the six months must be, however, within the current legislature, but that they must start from the date of approval of the constitutional law. There is nothing to exclude that, in a fruitless way, the ten days for the appeal against Italicum to the Constitutional Court - no one does - the Chambers can be dissolved immediately: fifty days are sufficient for the elections and, therefore, the electoral law of the Senate - since there is not in the text the government the mandatory prescription that should be in this legislature and after the adoption of the constitutional law - can be issued in the six months after the adoption of the constitutional law, but in any case by the new Parliament. And what would be the new Parliament? It would be the one elected, as far as the House is concerned, with Italicum and, as far as the Senate is concerned, by the transitional rule and, therefore, by the Regional Councils. Dear friends of the democratic left, you have obtained not the certainty of what you wanted, but simply that it would be entangled, almost inextricably and in any case subject to constitutional litigation, an already complex rule in itself, without having any guarantee that the electoral law for senators, which should therefore exclude the election within the regional councils, should take place within this legislature. Once again, therefore, there is a chord that serves only to officially certify a reached understanding and a achieved re-repair of the internal components to PD, as well as to complicate the life of Italian citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u19	Mr Bruni (CoR). Mr President, I would like to make a few more brief points, because my colleagues have already said some of the things I would have liked to have said. From the point of view of legislative technique, as Senator Crimi has said, this text is very perplexing and even makes us regret the clarity of the laws of stability, which are much easier to read than the amendment, as well as its effects on previous articles. Senator D'Alì has made a great deal of sense of the risks in the event of a lack of approval and dissolution of the legislature, regardless of the completion of that path advocated by this amendment. I would point out that we have often come across legislative forecasts which were then to be implemented by the regional legislator, on the basis of laws of state and national principle: I am thinking of equal opportunities and gender equality in access to the elected offices of the regional councils, where we have seen how the regional legislator is in breach or indifferent to certain requirements. I can say then, retracing and resuming all the doubts already raised by my colleagues from the technical point of view, that it is still present and is not averted in any way the risk of going to an elected Senate with the original prediction, namely that in the first application it is elected by the regional councillors themselves. This risk is the child of the vice of origin of the reading that we are carrying out in the Senate, that is the indispensable premise posed by the Government not to touch the double reading compliant for any reason, even in the face of obvious reasons of common sense and serious errors matured and accumulated during the two previous readings. For having respected this postulate by the majority, we are also trying to remedy the irremediable because, with all good intentions, this amendment does not remedy anything. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u22	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, my speech will be on the order of business and never, as in this case, is on the order. I would like to remind my fellow Members - since many people are looking to the outside world, to those who have the potential to follow Parliament's work - that, as I have pointed out in recent days, the current stage of the Senate's work is particularly important, because we are reviewing our Constitution in a broad way. When the Constitution came into force in 1948, the transitional rules touched on sensitive issues. If you were going to look at what those rules are dealing with, you would notice that they even deal with fundamental issues for the democratic order of the Republic, so much so that those transitional and final provisions remained, in fact, in force. We now have before us, Mr President, an article in the Constitution, because the transitional rules are rules of the Constitution to all intents and - as I have already said - their transitory nature, in some cases, has not been so transitory, since some of the rules of the 1948 Constitution are still considered to be in force, important and even fundamental for the democratic principles of the Republic. And I say this in order to call ourselves to the order of business that we are carrying out. Well, through confused legislative work, it has come to prepare a transitional rule of twelve paragraphs, and that already says a lot about the current Constitution, which in 1946-1948 was also drafted with the help of linguists and God knows how much they would have needed for the majority amendments to Article 2 and other passages. We carry out the cumbersome production of a transitional article of 12 paragraphs, after which, according to the principle - already illustrated by others, so I will be brief on this - of the double conformance, we consider paragraph 6 approved and, therefore, not modifiable. And after yet another agreement, colleagues from the various currents of the Democratic Party, among the currents of a party (other than a constituent spirit!), an amendment of the Government that contradicts - as pointed out earlier by Senators D'Alì, Calderoli and others - that paragraph 6 and you understand nothing. We have a paragraph 6 that provides for a deadline to approve the law on the election of senators, which should be six months after the entry into force of the Constitution. We are talking about the principle of the electivity of the senators, of that principle that everyone has invoked, and in respect of which - days ago I recalled in this Chamber - perhaps the most widespread daily newspaper in the country, or in any case one of the main ones, in a survey - the polls are worth what they are worth - said to be urged by the 73 percent of Italians: a principle of electiveity, otherwise you can close the Senate, abolish it. Democracy does not necessarily need two Chambers, although with different weights and roles. We first want the perfect bicameralism to be overcome, but not in confusion. So, Mr President, I appeal to you, who preside with dedication and commitment, and who have taken on important responsibilities - whether you judge them right or wrong - and I also understand the importance and delicacy of the role. You made decisions, and there weren't even any regulations to refer to. But the functioning of democracy - in my view - is a supreme standard of protection. The functioning of democracy does not, however, apply only when there are x million amendments, and then something must be done to prevent the decision being blocked. The safeguarding of democracy also applies when constitutional norms are made on a very delicate subject, on how to elect the future Senate, depowered, that does not vote for trust - then, at that point, it would have been better to abolish it - but that will still be a democratic body of the country in reference to the territories. You can't do this ballet of paragraph 6 and the additional paragraph: it's unbecoming. We have arrived on Friday; millions of amendments have been withdrawn or deleted; we are absolutely in line with the road map, Mr President, which provides for the final vote on Tuesday. So, the established order wouldn't be turned upside down. Today is Friday, it's 10:54. I'm not saying this for obstructionist purposes, but let's establish a term of decency, finding the contradictive nemine. We find the method of writing something that makes sense and doesn't open a dispute tomorrow, and not on a little something, because if the law is to be done sooner or later, on the direct election and on the designation of senators, it is not a trivial matter. It was said that the main points of this discussion would be, precisely, Article 2, that is, the functions of the Senate, the election of the President of the Republic, and the non-trivial, fundamental question of safeguarding a democratic principle in the designation of future senators. I shall conclude, Mr President, because I am really concerned about the way in which we proceed. I am not to make chaos or confusion ends in themselves. I feel the responsibility that each of us has in this House; then we can be in favour or against, and our critical reasons will prevail, especially in the face of the aspects mentioned in relation to this rewriting of the Constitution. I think we should play the role in this House. Then at the time of the final vote we will evaluate - certainly, in the face of rips of this type - how to make the country understand that they become shrewd. Sometimes we have seen legislative decrees and procedures do everything and more: contradictory rules, overlapping rules. I have also witnessed decrees that, in the passage between the House and the Senate, were amended to the Quirinale; everything happened, I have seen so many, and therefore my flexibility with respect to the legislative rules can be broad. But here we are making the Constitution. Transitional rules - as I said before - are sometimes fundamental in democratic life: we are talking about how to elect the Senate; then we involve regional councils, citizens. It's not a banal norm. So, because there is time - I do not see Senator Finocchiaro present now, but I address President Zanda and others - I believe that a work of constitutional decency can be done. Mine is, therefore, a reference to the order of business and to constitutional decency, because then we will have to explain to the people that this stuff was done, on the 6th, on the 12th, on the 15th, the busts: this is not how we play with the Constitution and democracy. Let's all consider it. We do a more serious job because there is time. Don't take excuses. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u23	On behalf of the Assembly I greet Milan Vranic, coordinator of the Serbian Government's Foreign Investment Agency and Plenipotentiary for relations with Albania, Kosovo and Macedonia, who is attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u26	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, I rise on an issue of inadmissibility, because, unfortunately, Amendment 39.2 has been declared inadmissible and, as this proposal is very important for the 5 Star Movement, I would like to stress that. This amendment is to speculate on a bill filed by all the Senators of the 5 Star Movement, which intended to remedy a very serious problem that we have in Sicily. As many know, the appeal body of the TAR in Sicily, the only Region of Italy, is the Administrative Justice Council. It was foreseen with the approval of the Statute, with constitutional law, as a privilege for our Region and unfortunately over the years, for the poor wording of the text, which gave rise to a hybrid organ, criticized by the doctrine, has become a handicap. Like many things in our country, this story has exploded in recent years and has even worsened in recent months, because this organ is churning out, one after the other, some anonymous decisions. We cite two: one concerns the Municipality of Syracuse for a sentence to ghost compensations decided by a consultant, taken in a small village of few souls and without any experience; the other even concerns MUOS and forced lawyers to turn to the prosecutor's office, something never seen in the history of our Region. I am referring, in other words, to lawyers who turn to a court of law and who, for the sake of the anonymity of that decision, have to go to the prosecutor. The position of the 5 Star Movement on this is clear and in this regard I wanted to say that Sicily must be considered as the other Regions of Italy: we have the right to have a free, independent, neutral and autonomous appeal body, but with the decisions of the last year this Administrative Council of Justice has trampled on and deleted this right.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u27	Senator Giarrusso, I will answer you immediately because - as you yourself said - this problem was posed by the 5 Star Movement with the presentation of a bill that is being examined by the Senate. His amendment presupposed an amendment to the Statute of the Region of Sicily, which is certainly not an issue that we are facing in this reform. These are the reasons for its inadmissibility. The bill may have its own iter. With regard to the other issue highlighted, Senator Calderoli first and then Senators Crimi, De Petris, D'Alì, Bruni and Gasparri raised the question of the admissibility of amendment 39,1000, tabled at the sitting on Thursday 8 October. Senator Calderoli, in particular, recalled the decision of the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the criteria you identified for the admissibility of the amendments submitted to the Commission, including the reference to the principle of contradictive nemine as the only possible derogation from the restrictive interpretation of Rule 104 of the Rules of the Senate. I would remind you that the presidency of the Senate did not consider itself to be expressing itself or to be consistent with those assessments. Other substantive criteria have been adopted for the discussion in this House, which are consistent with the amendments relating to all articles of the draft law in our examination. For example, only on the basis of the less restrictive criteria adopted by the presidency of the Senate, it was possible to accept amendment 2.204, at the first signature of Senator Finocchiaro, signed by all the majority leaders, as well as by Senator D'Adda, and on which no one has observed anything in this respect, despite the fact that the Commission had made declarations of inadmissibility for amendments of the same kind. In particular, the amendment made to paragraph 5 of Article 2 by amendment 2.204, in fact, results in a further interpretation of paragraph 2 of the same Article, although not formally amended. In the same way as amendment 2,204, amendment 39,1000, which insists on a paragraph amended by the Chamber of Deputies, is therefore considered admissible and its possible approval determines the need to interpret also the parts not modified during the examination at the other branch of Parliament: in particular paragraph 6, in the light of this innovation. So, that remains the problem. Senator Calderoli, I think I've answered your remark. [[Senator D'Alì's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u30	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, you have answered absolutely, but I just want to clarify what you have said: the parts that have not been changed must be interpreted. Paragraph 6 must be interpreted in the light of any amendment. What does that mean? In the final coordination will we adapt paragraph 2 of Article 2 and paragraph 6 of Article 39? In other words, will there be two provisions that say different things in the same articles? PRESIDENT. - The debate is This is left to the interpretation of those who will then have to apply. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). But you're writing the Constitution, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u31	Then, if there are proposals for coordination, they will be evaluated, as you yourself can understand. [[Comments from FI-PdL XVII, M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]] AIROLA (M5S). You cannot say that, Mr President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would now like to give notice of the 20-minute deadline for electronic voting. Then the debate will continue, because we left out the procedural steps at the beginning of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u32	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 11.05).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u35	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I understand that the Government amendment in question has received the applause and applause of the Democratic Party minority, as we saw yesterday. Objectively, however, I do not know how many colleagues have read the amendment of the Government and paragraph 6 of Article 39. Just read them. In the second case, in paragraph 6 of Article 39, it is written that "The law referred to in Article 57" (i.e. the famous ordinary law we are talking about) is approved within six months of the date of the election of the Chamber of Deputies. The Government's amendment 39,1000 says that even for the purposes referred to in this paragraph, the term referred to in Article 39, paragraph 6, shall begin from the date of entry into force of this Constitutional Law. This is not an interpretation of the Government with respect to paragraph 6, but they are two completely and totally different things. I wonder, Mr President, how these forces can be made. We all agree that the transitional rules try to put in place the most difficult part of the application of a constitutional law, but of contradictions - as I think it has been said in other previous interventions - there is a resounding paragraph 10, in which ten days are given, compared to a law not promulgated, to appeal to the Constitutional Court: a series of appalling contradictions. If, however, we want to conclude the measure by exacerbating the contradictions and ambiguities contained in Article 39, that is clear and remains in the act. But I don't think this is the best way to proceed. And, since I think that the problem must be solved anyway and the principle of contradictive nemine has also been mentioned here, if all the groups agree, we agree that a House - at this point the House of Deputies - rewrites Rule 39 in its entirety and adapts it to a rule that is interpretable and understandable. As it is about to be approved, it contains two paragraphs in contradiction with each other and is not a problem of interpretation. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u36	Senator, you reiterated what Senator Gasparri said and the decision was communicated.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u37	We shall resume the examination of the articles, in the text including the amendments made by the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting amendments 30,200 (text 2), which are entirely replacing Article 30, corresponding to Article 29 of the text approved by the Senate, were adopted, Articles 31, 33 and 35, corresponding respectively to Articles 30, 32 and 34 of the text approved by the Senate, and Amendment 37,200, entirely replacing Article 37, corresponding to Article 36 of the text approved by the Senate. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 38, which corresponds to Article 37 of the text approved by the Senate, on which amendments have been tabled, which have already been tabled. I note that the list of inadmissible amendments to this article is being distributed and that, pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, a request for a secret ballot has been received, referring to amendment 38,900, which was deemed admissible by the Presidency. I call on the Government representative to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u38	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments, with the exception of Senator Calderoli's amendment 38,900, on which we refer to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u39	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 38.1c. CRIMI (M5S). We call for the vote on this amendment to be taken simultaneously by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Colleagues, awaiting the expiry of twenty minutes from the notice referred to in Rule 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting until 11.25 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.10 a.m. and resumed at 11.26 a.m.) The session is resumed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 38.1c, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 38.2c to 38.701 are inadmissible. Amendment 38.9c (text 2) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u42	Mr Quegliariello (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business, especially in order to put a judgment on your opinion on the record, which we obviously respect, but which we frankly do not understand. It concerns the inadmissibility of amendment 38.1, signed by Mr Quagliariello, Mr Augello and Mr Torrisi. I must say, Mr President, that your decision seemed unfounded to me. This impression was strongly strengthened after listening to his words regarding the alleged admissibility of the amendment tabled by the Government to Article 39. You referred to Rule 104 of our Rules of Procedure. Amendment 38.1, which provides for the establishment of a Audit Committee on Public Finance with an equal composition between majority and opposition, as the nucleus of a real opposition statute, seems to me to be directly related to the amendment of Article 64 of the Constitution (as referred to in Article 6 of the draft law in question) which was made by the House, which introduced, in fact, the Statute of the Opposition. This therefore falls fully - and in some way reinforces the words you have used - into Rule 104 of our Rules of Procedure, the second part of which reads as follows: New amendments can only be considered if they are directly related to the amendments introduced by the Chamber of Deputies. We are precisely in this case with both feet and, if you will allow me, with a little more clarity than in Article 39. Having said that, I must also tell you that your decision takes me and my Group away from an embarrassment, which was to defend the amendment in this House. The words remain in the minutes, but politically his decision makes us involuntarily comfortable. Mr President, I take advantage of the word I have been given to say something. During this second reading of the bill we received some general satisfactions, starting with the solution of the lists for the choice of future senators, which we had indicated for a long time, until further strengthening, by correcting the House's provisions, of the relationship between European legislation and the Senate, and the allocation to this Assembly of a role in the control of the quality of legislation. Finally, yesterday the amendment was adopted whereby two constitutional judges will be elected by this Assembly. Then there is a great issue that we raised and that I cannot help but mention: that of the counterweights present in the system. We had loudly supported, sometimes even in controversy with the Democratic Party minority, that it was not possible for the Senate to be considered a counterweight and that, when the system changes so radically, counterweights should have been identified. We had indicated three of them, starting with a change in the way the President of the Republic is elected to make it a guarantee body. We had proposed a necessary enlargement of the audience, so as not to run the possible risk of a solution that is identified within a single party (with the further implication of also granting a blocking power to the minority of the party itself), precisely because a situation such as today will not be projected over time endlessly. This is a situation that is valid today, while a Constitution is valid for today and also for tomorrow. We also indicated the need for a stronger relationship between the independent authorities and Parliament in the Constitution, because it is not possible for the relationship to be consumed in a ceremony to be celebrated in the hall of the Wolf or in the Zuccari room every other year. Finally, we had indicated a stronger role for the opposition, starting with the control over public finance that the Commission envisaged in our amendment would allow precisely because it was chaired by a member of the opposition. This part has been completely ignored. I do not think it is merely a lack of consideration for an ally who has made this measure a path of absolute loyalty and great clarity, as - above all - a weakness in the establishment of the Constitution of tomorrow of the Italian Republic. I believe that this observation should not be silenced here. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u43	Senator Quagliariello, amendment 38.1 was declared inadmissible by the Presidency as it was formulated as an insertion of a completely new paragraph in Article 38 of the draft constitutional law under consideration. This article, as we know, introduces a series of transitional provisions relating to Articles 57, 72, 117 and 120 of the Constitution and the only modified parts are paragraphs 9, 10 and 12, where Amendment 38.1 is constructed as an amendment to Constitutional Law No 1 of 2012 on budgetary balance. The Presidency recalls that she had actually tabled an amendment of the same content to Article 6 of this measure. This amendment, 6.2, which you subsequently withdrawn, had been more correctly - in the view of the Presidency - placed in the form of additional words to the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Constitution, as amended by the Chamber of Deputies, being therefore admissible, at least in its first part, in the light of Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. The second part of amendment 6.2 would however have fallen into the same pronunciation of inadmissibility as amendment 38.1, since it always tends to add, at the end of Article 38 of the draft law, a paragraph concerning the recalled constitutional law No. 1 of 2012. Therefore, the Presidency can only confirm that it has already stated its position of inadmissibility, while taking into account, on the substance, the goodness of its arguments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u46	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, this may seem strange, but this time I completely agree with Senator Quagliariello. In the Chamber of Deputies we have seen additional paragraphs in Rule 10, Rule 38 and Rule 39, and no one has had any objection. In particular, what has been added to Article 38 speaks precisely of a series of constitutional laws. We must accept his verdict, but it must also be added that that famous amendment 6.2 was one of the few points to which the New Right Centre particularly cared. On the other hand, there was an undoubted hostility on the part of the government, which kept saying: Yes, it's okay, but then it's okay. So Amendment 6.2 is withdrawn, put in Article 38, and then declared inadmissible, and then, "who gave, gave and who had, had." Congratulations, keep going!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u49	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, I would just like to point out that amendments 38,700, 38,701 and 38,703 were declared inadmissible, which, in my opinion, were an opportunity for the Government, to ensure that the constitutional reform strengthened the content of the Del Rio law, in Article 1, paragraph 3, giving to the provinces entirely mountain - such as the Belluno and the others recognized as such - and neighbouring with foreign countries, that autonomy which the Del Rio law, at a practical level, of economic capacity, does not grant. To foresee this provision in the Constitution, citing these Provinces immediately after the list of Autonomous Regions could have given recognition and allowed the Government to give the mountain areas a concrete response. I am therefore sorry that an opportunity has been missed. In Article 38 there are amendments which have the same purpose and I hope that the Government will take them into account.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u52	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the decisions taken will be repeated, but I would like to point out that we have tried to improve the text under discussion. I think, for example, that this amendment has some interesting things in itself, which I think I can agree with. However, we are faced with a barrier of inadmissibility, which in fact prevented the attempt to improve. I was faced with this barrier for a number of additional amendments, which I had tabled, in addition to the Commission, on regional legislative competences. This is a system that introduces weaknesses in the measure: I say this because sooner or later the debate on this measure will end. Above all, it introduces and causes injury to the democratic debate around the revision of the Constitution. Perhaps a moment's thought should be given to how we should organise this kind of debate, because it is true that at this stage it will mark a step forward, at least a formal one, but it does not end definitively. The political events that concern our country, the life and development of the system of local and regional autonomy, will return with all their currentity also to make better and more reflect those who have the responsibility of government and the proposal of this measure. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u53	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 38.10c, tabled by Senator Calderoli, on page 1, Volume 1, of the electronic file, identical to amendment 38.600, tabled by Senator D'Alì and other senators, on page 4 of the main file. Colleagues, I have to cancel the vote. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Listen because: support for the request for electronic voting had been voted for only the first amendment; if anyone asks for it throughout the article, perhaps we can work together to move forward faster. Mr Russo (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 38.10c, tabled by Senator Calderoli, essentially identical to amendment 38.600, tabled by Senator D'Alì and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 38,900, on which the requested number of senators requested a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of Amendment 38.900, tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 38,901 to 38,903 are inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 38.11c, tabled by Senator Calderoli, on page 1, Volume 2, Volume 1, of the dossier in electronic format, up to the following word: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 38.11c and Amendments 38.12c to 38.35010c, on page 670, Volume 8, Volume 2, are therefore excluded. Amendments 38,702 to 38,35011c and amendment 38,35012c are inadmissible. Amendment 38.2001 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 38,35015c, tabled by Senator Calderoli, up to (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 38.35015c and amendments 38.2002 to 38.800, as well as amendment 38.35017c on page 1 of volume 9 of the dossier in electronic format, are therefore excluded. Amendments 38,35013c to 38,35020c are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 38,35021c, which is identical to Amendment No 38,602.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u56	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, since we see some fibrillation, they may need a suspension. I'm suggesting that because he's working very well, but we find out from here that there's some fibrillation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u57	Senator Crimes, please. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 38 35021c, tabled by Senator Calderoli, on page 1, Volume 9, of the electronic file, identical to amendment 38.602, tabled by Senator D'Alì and other senators, on the main file. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). He asked the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u58	Mr President, I do indeed call for a very short suspension for a review of Article 38. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u59	I can't hear you, please! Excuse me again? Mr Boschi, Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament. I would ask, Mr President, for the courtesy of a short suspension for a check on Rule 38 before the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u60	I shall suspend the sitting until 12.30 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.47 a.m. and resumed at 12.38 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u63	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, before the work is resumed, I would like to inform you that I have received news of the withdrawal from the shelves of the COOP supermarkets in Lazio, Tuscany, Umbria and Campania of the gastronomic product "Girellone cotto olive" produced by the cooperative "Il Forteto" for a deadly bacterium. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bottici, but this subject must be the subject of an intervention at the end of the session. I really don't think it can get into the debate on constitutional reform. BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, this is a matter of these hours. Since Deputy Minister Nencini is present, who is from Tuscany and, therefore, knows the cooperative "Il Forteto" (Forteto), I take the opportunity to ask that the Government do not obstruct the establishment of a Commission of inquiry on "Il Forteto" and the calendarization of a measure in this regard. [[Comments from the PD Group. Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u64	He asked the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u65	Mr President, I am also speaking to take account of the request for suspension of the examination of Rule 38. Reviewing, the amendment that was approved yesterday by this House with a very large majority, basically almost unanimously, concerning the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court (the amendment tabled by Senator Finocchiaro and the majority group leaders, voted almost unanimously), obviously involved the modification of the procedures for the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court, which are no longer elected by Parliament in common sitting, but by the Chamber and Senate separately, with two separate elections. In the light of the adoption of this amendment and therefore of the amendment made, we will therefore have to amend the constitutional law governing the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court, in order to make it clear that Parliament will no longer be in joint session. This is a consequence of the amendment adopted yesterday, which insists on Article 38. That is precisely why I am going to present to the Presidency an amendment by the Government - at this stage, as is well known, only the Government can table new amendments - to clarify this aspect and amend the constitutional law accordingly. I am therefore going to read the text of amendment 38.5000 which I am going to table: 'In Article 38, add the following paragraph to the end: Article 3 of Constitutional Law No 2 of 22 November 1967, as amended, is replaced by the following: "Art. 3. -. The judges of the Constitutional Court appointed by the Parliament shall be elected by each Chamber by secret ballot and by a two-thirds majority of its members. The majority of the three fifths of the components are sufficient for scrutins after the third.'........................................................................................................................................................................................ Of course, there is no change in the majorities and quorums already planned.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u68	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, better late than never, someone says. When you combine a mess and write the Constitutions like this, then you need the last three quarters of an hour to realize that you have written a donkey (but unfortunately there are many). Mr President, in Rule 38 we amend a number of constitutional laws which follow the previous resolution. Now, the law that is touched, No. 2 of November 22, 1967, is not among them. If elections are to be held in two separate sessions and not in Parliament at a joint sitting, all the rules governing the election of each Chamber for its part of the Judges of the Court must also be reviewed. We have had debates of days and hours with respect to the quorums for the President of the Republic and I do not believe that it can be cleared with the term 'consequentiality' that the same quorums should be maintained as were planned for the election in common sitting. There is the introduction of a rather important innovation compared to a discipline that lasts from 1948 to today. I would have included this change in the final coordination, as a consequence of what was laid down yesterday: it seems to me very questionable whether an amendment should be tabled. However, in view of the fact that an amendment has been tabled, each of us must have the opportunity to produce and propose, through sub-amendments, framework rules on how to elect judges of the Constitutional Court. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to open up the time limits for preparing and presenting the sub-amendments and also to be able to reason on what quorums are necessary and more correct for the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court, once it is established that each Chamber is acting on its own behalf. What the Minister said about maintaining the same quorums could make sense if we were talking about a Senate as configured today: but the next Senate will be a completely different thing. So with regard to quorums planned for the House, given the composition that the Senate of the Republic will have with a law that however will be proportional and will not foresee a majority prize, I think we have to reason to decide whether they should be the same. I entrust myself to you, Mr President, for as long as you can allow us for the sub-emerging phase. Everyone was convinced in their hearts that by 1 p.m. we would finish the work. I'm sorry, but between one thing and another (not because of obstructionism) we have arrived at this time. So let us put our hearts in peace and take back the trolley that had been parked and with which we should have gone to the airport. One thing is certain and I was very sorry (underline that this paper was delivered to me when I entered the Chamber): that not only the majority forces were brought into the government room, but also a force of opposition. If you are in opposition, you don't agree and you don't get involved with the government!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u71	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would say that Senator Calderoli was lucky: at least the paper on entering the Chamber was handed over to him! Mr President, I do not want to go too far, partly because, at this point, we have decided, in fact, to keep a number of other inconsistencies for ourselves. I say it with great tranquility. There are others and we will act on all the procedures allowed and the means, including legal ones, to make them clear. Someone in the hearings called this reform a condominium regulation, but if a condominium regulation had been made in this way, I wonder what could have happened. We've gone further. We've really moved on! In the condo regulations it is necessary to be precise, otherwise the condominiums explode. As it seems obvious, the issue is not purely formal. Amendment 38.5000, among other things, is an additional amendment (with all that this entails with regard to the debate that we did just now on the additional amendments) and it is clear to everyone that, being an amendment of the Government, we must have the opportunity to sub-emend it. It is not a request that can be accepted or not: when the Government submits an amendment, it is absolutely necessary to have the opportunity to subservient and, therefore, to have sufficient time to do so, because we are not just talking about a matter. All oppositions have virtually voted for amendment 37,200, the first of which is Senator Finocchiaro (as a demonstration that when serious reasonings are made, there is certainly no obstructive attitude). Precisely because we are dealing with a very sensitive issue concerning the election of the Supreme Court (I don't think there is a higher-ranking body), one cannot think of simply taking the current arrangements for Parliament in common sitting and transferring them tout court to the Senate, because the Senate will be completely different. I therefore believe that we must have the opportunity to articulate our sub-emerging proposals.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u74	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, we realize that even without our obstruction, the majority is obstructing itself by making a mistake in the composition of their amendments and always realizing that they are in the end. The issue that has been raised by my fellow Members is important. It is not simply a question of translating the current way of electing judges, the current quorum, into the separate composition of the Chamber and Senate, because this does not take into account the fact that Chamber and Senate are two completely different things. Or bicameralism or monocameralism. Decide what you want! If you want monocameralism and the Senate becomes something else, it becomes the Senate of the Republic of the autonomouss, representative of the territorial institutions with hundred senators, you must, in identifying quorums for the appointment of judges, but also of other offices that one tomorrow could be, to measure everything to the type of this Senate and its characteristic representative of the territorial institutions. Perhaps not even the concept of quorum (numbers) can be a useful element in giving a fair representativeness to the election of judges. Perhaps there may also be other criteria. I am not saying that this is certain, but the criteria could be different and different, precisely because the Senate is no longer the House as we have always seen it, but you have completely devastated it and turned it into something else. It is a Senate where there are no majorities and there are no oppositions, it is a Senate that represents institutions and not citizens: so it is a different Senate. So even the logic of quorum (three fifths, four fifths, half and so on) may not be applied to this Senate. For this reason, it is not enough to settle the matter with amendments and sub-amendments, but perhaps it is necessary to give a useful time to be able to calmly review what will come out of this Senate. There is time, because this measure must still make three more steps; we hope that it will be even more, but three are mandatory: Room, Senate and then again Chamber (this is taken for granted). Then there will be the referendum, about which a lot has been said. So before the fall of 2016, we are not talking about promulgating this law. Not only that, I remind you that this constitutional reform, as it is written in Article 39, will come into force, but it will have its effects - to be precise - with the subsequent legislature. There would therefore be plenty of time to make changes to all constitutional laws that are linked to the Constitution; I am not just referring to the Constitutional Judges, because there are also other constitutional laws that should be taken into account. I am thinking of the laws concerning, for example, Article 68, that is, the immunity of Members of Parliament, which could clearly be revised in their process and in their characteristics: these are regulated by constitutional laws. Therefore, the whole framework of constitutional laws in support of this new Constitution should be revised. It would therefore be appropriate, immediately after the final adoption and before the referendum, to try to make a framework law of all changes to constitutional laws, so that then this Constitution can have its application and not remain something so, with pieces put here and there. In fact, now we are putting on a piece, but, while we put on a piece, another hole opens and maybe we realize that there is another constitutional law that regulated a certain thing. And I could mention others: I am thinking of the Councils, for example, or the Committee for the indictment of the President of the Republic, which is made up of the two Councils of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities and which met for the first time this year, when we asked for the indictment of President Napolitano. It is regulated by a law, which governs how it is formed, and also this law should be revised according to what the new Senate and Chamber will be and according to their composition. So it may be necessary to take action in that case too. I repeat that there are so many constitutional laws: I have just mentioned those relating to Article 68 and all the procedures for parliamentary immunity, which must be reviewed in an organic way and not so crowded. It will soon become clear that there is another constitutional law that we have missed, and then we will have to put another piece in it. We continue to do something very unworthy of this country, Mr President, and above all of those who have written the first Constitutional Charter: it is truly unworthy of this way of proceeding. I would therefore not only ask that sub-amendments be tabled, but I would ask that the Government refrain from tabling this amendment and propose that Parliament or even the Government, if it wants to do so (it has done constitutional reform, let alone a constitutional law), put forward a proposal for a constitutional law which contains, within it, all the changes to the laws that go as a framework around our Constitution, which are many, Mr President, and which have been enacted over the years. This law should take into account all that can happen and the changes resulting from this new Senate, as you wished. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u77	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I rise as a result of the formal impeccable dispute that Senator Calderoli has addressed to the way in which the Government intervenes (being the only one to be able to do so today) on the text, in an attempt to remedy one of the many inconsistencies present in this reform process. I would therefore like to add to the request made by my colleague to ask you, Mr President, for a reasonable time to present those sub-amendments which, at least, can make it clear that the text proposed by the Government continues and perseveres in an approach to a subject which, on the other hand, is extremely important. Sub-amendments could clarify better and address the true heart of this affair. The Senate Assembly, which will be different from that of the House, must conform to the modalities (whether correct or not is only a matter of opinions) decided for the House? I think that within this debate it can be made clear how we are talking about two functions, two assemblies and two compositions so different that we have to envisage, in this case too, different ways than, for example, the quorum. The number and quality of the sub-amendments that will be proposed will certainly be of this kind. I must also agree with Mr Calderoli on another point raised in his speech. Mr President, in this process of reform the oppositions, in an attempt to represent different points and positions, have maintained their unity and a thread that led them to carry out battles sometimes of strong opposition or attempts to find possible solutions together with the majority and the government in the general interest. We are today on the last day of evaluation of the amendments and we can say that it is not true that we have taken part in a reform process. In fact, we have taken part in the vote on an almost ordinary law which has seen a majority of it find its agreement with rigid, rigid orders of stables, and an opposition that - once again, on this last day of examination of the amendments - is frayed in an attempt to find, within a possible dialogue with the Government, even more than with the majority, the satisfaction of some position obviously political, but I do not see it. I therefore bitterly record that, once again, the aid of the Nazarene Pact comes quickly if, even on the last day, there is some problem in the amendments. In a few minutes you enter the government room and read, in advance of all the other oppositions, a hypothesis, a proposal that the government certainly wanted to share. Register, which wanted to share it with Forza Italia and not with the rest of the oppositions. [[Applause from Senator Calderoli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u80	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I do not go into the substance of this amendment, but I would like to make a comment by addressing Senator Bonfrisco and Senator Calderoli. I asked the government what was happening and, please, the government told me what was happening. This isn't about any mischief. Let's not confuse courtesy with curls. That's enough! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] AIROLA (M5S). We'll see when you vote! [[Comments from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u81	Colleagues, silence, please. Senator Gasparri, I invite you to take your seat. The amendment was tabled by the Government to Article 38 of the Constitutional Bill when we examined it. This Article shall include, as part of the Final Provisions of Chapter VI, rules of consequential and coordination. The amendment, in amending Constitutional Law No 2 of 1967, appears necessary to ensure the overall coherence of the constitutional order with respect to the amendment of Article 135 of the Constitution, which was adopted yesterday. It is therefore, as it were, a 'necessary' and co-ordination amendment which has the requirements of eligibility. The Presidency therefore allows the submission of sub-amendments by 1.30 p.m. I therefore suspend the sitting, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. [[Comments from the M5S Group. The sitting was suspended at 10.01 p.m. and resumed at 3.30 p.m.]] Colleagues, let us take up our work from Amendment 38.603, on page 9 of the main dossier, on which the Government has expressed its opposition.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u84	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to make a very brief statement on the eligibility you have previously announced. I read the shorthand report which says that the amendment, in amending Constitutional Law No. 2 of 1967, appears necessary to ensure the overall coherence of the constitutional order with respect to the amendment of Article 135 of the Constitution which was adopted yesterday. It is therefore, as it were, a necessary and coordinated amendment which has the requirements of eligibility. Mr President, one thing must be made clear for everyone to know: the amendment adopted yesterday restores the original text of the Government. The law was sent to us on April 8, 2014: did you arrive at 12.30 today to notice that it contained a hole? I'd worry! Because even the Senate didn't notice and passed a law with a hole! I personally did not vote for that law, but I would be concerned about those who voted for it and the possible holes that still exist within the measure and, Mr President, I would like to give an example. Ten regions will elect two senators. We remove the mayors, who do not know by what criteria will be chosen, certainly not the ones based on the electorate's voting instructions. The ten regional councillors, one per region, will have to be elected taking into account the indications of vote of citizens, gender balance, linguistic minorities and respecting the composition of the Regional Council. I do not know if there will be vertical or horizontal divisions in order to put together a kind of ornitorinco that represents all these characteristics, that will be identified in a single elected, but it is clear that this amendment does not save something that wants to be called democracy: this is the saving-legislature amendment, because before writing an electoral law that meets all the characteristics that I have stated, if it is okay we will vote for 2018. Perhaps someone will be satisfied that the legislature is safe, but democracy is certainly not. [[Applause from Senator Castaldi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u85	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 38.603, tabled by Senator D'Ali and other senators, on page 9 of the main file. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 38.604, tabled by Senator D'Alì and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the sub-amendments tabled to Amendment 38.5000.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u88	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I would like to inform the Presidency that I have had to clarify some of the points on sub-amendment 38.5000/2 that we have tabled and that I have already given the amended text to the Presidency, which is a recomposition of the original.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u89	We take note of that. I call on the Government representative to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u90	I am against all sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u91	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 38.5000/1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u94	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, of course - as you have already been informed - I will not take part in the vote, but I believe that a reflection must be made. This morning I mentioned the problem of the provision of identical quorums for the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court by the two Chambers. Now, the planned quorums make sense to the House that has an absolutely majority law, while I believe that they should be revised for the Senate, which will be elected with a proportional system. Sub-amendment 38.500/1 proposes for the House a majority equal to two thirds of the members while for the Senate at the beginning of the three fifths and, after the third ballot, the absolute majority of its members. This is because there is a risk that if there is no reduction in quorums, the Senate will probably never be able to elect a judge of the Constitutional Court, I think with good peace of the House that instead its own will elect them anyway. So, Mr President, this is just a common sense amendment aimed at the fact that the Senate also has its own representation in the Court.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u95	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 38.5000/1, tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator De Petris, I would be grateful if you would read the reworded text of Amendment 38.5000/2, because I cannot read your handwriting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u96	The concept is very simple, President. With this sub-amendment we leave the quorums unchanged for the Chamber of Deputies (two thirds and three fifths), while for the Senate we introduce a quorum differentiation for a very simple reason. In fact, as I had already pointed out, if the senators have present the scheme of allocation of seats for each Region, with the planned quorums (two thirds and three fifths) we risk favoring the emergence of a block of Regions. This is very dangerous, in my opinion, for the unity of the country - if we still want to maintain it - and yet it says a lot about the potential of conflictuality of this Senate as it is configured. In fact, there are, for example, regions in the North - I simply mention them because they are the ones with the greatest weight - which ultimately have a very large number of seats and senators, who, with these quorums, and with a few other additions, could decide for themselves the judges of the Constitutional Court. This is not a peregrine issue, so ours is not a superfluous sub-amendment. For example, the South as a whole would have thirty seats; the three fifths of a hundred is sixty, so you understand well that it could be specifically excluded, with the consequence that blockages could be formed so that the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court would in fact be completely monopolized by representatives of some regions. For this reason, we propose quorums - they will seem very high to you, instead this is precisely in the spirit of the election of judges by the Senate - four fifths for the first ballots and two thirds from the third. It is a very high quorum but fixed precisely in order to avoid that there can be blocks of Regions, that could trigger really heavy mechanisms with consequences for the country. The quorums we propose ensure that there must be a much more general agreement.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u97	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 38.5000/2 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u100	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I am voting in favour of Amendment 38.5000/2 (text 2) and I also want to be a concern. According to the new constitutional text, the Senate does not represent the whole of the Republic, not the Italian people, it no longer represents the unity of the nation, but the territorial realities of our country, which have often highlighted opposing interests towards each other, a strong economic competition and a significant social difference. The choice made to define this type of Chamber introduces a virus that has already crossed this country, that of the division, and the more it would manifest itself if even the body responsible for making the assessment on the constitutionality of our legislative measures and those of the Regions had to be composed on the basis of an evil pact of interests between some territorial realities, that is the strongest ones, the richest ones and sometimes even the most bullying ones. I say this because I come from an experience in which unfortunately ethnic-territorial discrimination has been consumed despite a fundamental charter of the rights of our people much more advanced than what we are writing [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u101	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 38.5000/2 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 38.5000/3, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 38.5000/4, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 38.5000/5.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u104	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Amendment 38.5000/5 responds to the need raised by several colleagues on the differentiation of quorums between the House and the Senate. It is clear that we must reduce the quorum to the Senate, while we must maintain the quorum to the House, given the system of voting of Italicum compared to what is expected will be issued for the election of senators. We would therefore maintain the level of the three fifths of the members in the House, while in the Senate we would go down to that already provided for in the Constitution, because the risk is that the Senate will freeze and have no representative in the Constitutional Court, while the other magistrates of the State would have them.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u105	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 38.5000/5, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 38.5000/6.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u108	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, this amendment, which I ask Members to read, differs from all the other amendments tabled, which have acted on the quorum. It is proposed that the following words be added to the amendment appointed by the Government: The Judges appointed by the Senate of the Republic must also be elected by senators representing at least eleven territorial institutions represented there. This amendment is an example of how (in twenty minutes, taking into account the time to write it, print it and bring it to the secretariat, since the Constitution must write it in these times) we should reason in the new Senate. The new Senate is no longer the Senate elected by the citizens in a proportional manner. The new Senate is representative of the territorial institutions; so you wanted it and so you should also build everything around you. Now, if it is representative of territorial institutions, and you yourself have denied that it is representative of communities and citizens, when it is said to be representative of territorial institutions, it means that it is representative of each region, and therefore, in certain situations, equally. For the elections of the judges of the Constitutional Court, not being the Senate representative of the citizens but of the institutions, the Lombardy Region should have a weight, in these typical and specific functions, equal to that of the Basilicata Region. Yet that is not the case, because, as my colleague Mrs De Petris pointed out earlier, a block of a few regions could have a very strong majority in this Senate. If the representativeness had been that of the citizens this made sense, because each senator or group of senators of a region carried with it the popular vote, for example, of those 10 million voters of the population of Lombardy. But that is not the case, because the senators represent the institution, I would like to emphasise this point. Therefore, what we are considering is only a possible amendment, which shows that, if we had had more time and had done, as we had proposed, a broader reasoning on all the laws related to the Constitutional Charter, we could perhaps have done a good service to this country, and not a bad service like what we are doing. This amendment demonstrates one of the possible options. Clearly, I will be told that other forms of election need to be identified, because we should vote with different ballot boxes. Surely, if we had time to reason on this elective method, we could find ways to ensure that the territorial institutions represented in the Senate can elect the judges of the Constitutional Court, with a qualified majority in terms of territorial institutions, even more than individual senators. That is why this suggestion, which we allow ourselves to give, could be useful in overcoming this difficulty. I would also like to say to the Government and colleagues of the majority that we found, in twenty minutes, when we wrote this sub-amendment, two other points where other constitutional laws should be corrected. We found them in twenty minutes, but perhaps, if the legislative offices of the government and the majority were to work, they would have hundreds of changes to make, in parts where we are still talking about Parliament in common sitting and not just about judges of the Constitutional Court. I repeat, in twenty minutes we have found two points, with a short search on the Internet, still in force and that have not been identified by the Government. I don't have the kindness to provide them to the government and the majority: please do it yourself. We shall, if necessary, present them to the House as amendments, and I would like to hear them say that they are not necessary in relation to what has been said today, namely that our amendments were not necessary. There's two here. We reserve the right to present them to the House, and then we will see whether the President of the House will have to declare them inadmissible or whether the Government will have to give an opinion against amendments which, as you yourself said, are necessary for the coordination of all the texts related to the Constitutional Charter. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u111	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we will of course be voting in favour of sub-amendment 38.5000/6: this is the same reasoning that led us to work on raising quorums. The problem is very serious. Of course, if a Bundesrat-type Senate had been set up, it would have been voted en bloc and perhaps everything would have been clearer from that point of view. With the hybrid that came out instead, we are finally faced with a Senate that - you have told us - no longer represents the nation (I want to remind you of it in the absence of misunderstandings) and whose definition of functions and representation refers to the territorial institutions. We voted in favour of the amendment by Senator Finocchiaro precisely to point out that, at that point, in the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court, the Senate obviously should have the opportunity to express them, precisely because it is configured as the Senate of the Regions; but the point - I repeat - is that this mechanism could easily trigger a dangerous situation also with regard to national unity. That of the judges of the Court is not a trivial election; it is the indication of the supreme body of constitutional guarantee. I want to remind you of a passage: the Regions (Piedmont, Valle d'Aosta, Liguria, Lombardy, Autonomous Province of Bolzano, Autonomous Province of Trento, Veneto, Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Emilia-Romagna, Tuscany) alone have 49 seats. I could go on like this: the South, including the islands, has 30; the Centre, excluding Lazio, has very few seats. You understand well - and I invite all senators to reflect on this - that with these numbers (almost 50% of the seats of this kind of Senate, in fact, are attributed to Northern Regions) it could be that some regions, the larger and stronger ones, block and succeed, in the end, in imposing the election of the two judges of the Constitutional Court. We are voting in favour of the amendment tabled by Senator Crimi, because it raises the same issue. However, I would like to say to my colleague, Mr Crimes, that with the prediction that votes should be the expression of at least eleven territorial institutions there is a problem, for a very simple reason: the vote is by secret ballot. This prediction would be good in a Bundesrat Senate, where the vote is by region, by block, and so it would be much easier to affirm this principle. [[Applause from Senator Petraglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u112	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 38.5000/6, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 38.5000, tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 38.1 to 38 35022c are inadmissible. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 38, corresponding to Article 37 of the text approved by the Senate, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 38.0.700 is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 39, which corresponds to Article 38 of the text approved by the Senate, on which amendments have been tabled, which have already been tabled. The Presidency declares Amendments 39,1000/1, 39,1000/11 and 39,1000/19 inadmissible. I also note that two requests for secret ballots, pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, have been received by the required number of senators on sub-amendments 39,1000/12 and 39,1000/17. The Presidency considers both requests admissible. Since the two amendments have a substantially identical content, they will be put to the vote together. The list of further inadmissible amendments is being distributed. I call on the Government representative to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u113	The Government's opinion is opposed to all amendments, with the exception of amendment 39,700 (text 3), at the first signature of Senator Zeller, on which the opinion is in favour. With regard to the sub-amendments to the amendment of the Government 39,1000, the opinion is opposed to all sub-amendments, with the exception of 39,1000/12, submitted by Senator Calderoli, and 39,1000/17, at the first signature of Senator Crimi, on which the Assembly is committed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u116	SOLLO (PD). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u117	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 39.1c, which is the same for the part eligible for Amendments Nos 39.2c, 39.3c and 39.4c.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u120	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking for an explanation of vote on Amendments Nos 39.1c, 39.2c and 39.3c and 39.4c proposing the deletion of the Rule. I believe that this is a solution of common sense, because with Article 39 we are preparing to approve yet another illegible and ininterpretable text, following the further changes, already illegible and some even not applicable, made by paragraph 10 to the Chamber. In addition, there was the presentation of an amendment of the Government that, as was said in the preliminary interventions this morning, introduces an amendment to a part, paragraph 6, which had already been approved in the same text by Senate and Chamber and, despite the forcing on eligibility, leaves a text contradictory to the one originally proposed and which was supposed to be approved. The common sense solution that I would like to submit to the Government and to the majority is only one: the total abolition of this article, which is very confusing, full of inextricable points and difficult to interpret, among other things offensive to the clarity of a Constitution that, until we got through this reform, was one of the simplest and most readable Constitutions in the world. The deletion of this article gives the government the opportunity to calmly meditate on a readable text and above all to put together a series of applicable rules, have them voted in the House and, within a few days, resolve the problem. What I address to the majority and the government is an appeal to delete the article, to rewrite it and to move forward, to leave the posterity a decent text. As we have already said this morning, it is not possible that there are rules that are not applicable, there is no way that there are rules that should be subject to a difficult interpretation because one paragraph says one thing and another says one completely opposite. Let us then overcome this article 39 and thus avoid, not the lengths, which certainly do not frighten us, but the difficulties of dialectic understanding and avoid to get into a debate that then does not lead us to a real result. The only real and clear result is the deletion of the article and the opportunity to rewrite it in full in terms of clarity in the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u123	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I too would like to appeal to the majority and to the Government, and I support the appeal made earlier by Senator D'Alì. Maybe this is the way out. In the House you have an absolute majority and therefore you can write article 39 in your secretariat or in your management, cleanly and again, presenting it as a well written text, within which there are all the things required by the Democratic Party minority regarding the transitional rules. It could be made a clean text and that - as Senator D'Alì said earlier - does not offend the intelligence of the reader who will read this text. Perhaps this is the last chance to be able to heal this "condominium regulation," as we could call this new Constitution. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Yeah, maybe you're right. It's the rules of a big condo and not a small condo. You could correct this anonymity perhaps by suppressing it and allowing the House to insert a correct, homogeneous, honest text that is readable by anyone, as was the Constitutional Charter before you made it rag paper. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u124	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u126	CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). Mr President, I would like to join in the words of Senator D'Alì and Senator Crimi. I remember that, when I was a boy and in middle school there was civic education, there were pieces of the Constitution; the teacher explained them to us and commented on them. They were my first approaches to what politics means. Now, in reading Article 39 frankly I had to overcome not small difficulties of understanding, and I am no longer a middle school boy. The problem is that this text is very similar to the texts we are used to encounter when we read the laws of stability, with references and rather impervious passages from the point of view of the language. Now there is no more Marquis Concept; I remind myself that the text of the Constitution of 1947 was then revised by a committee of linguists. It does not seem to me that this is the spirit in which the Government is preparing to amend the Constitution; but I believe that it is useful for everyone that any citizen, even not particularly educated, is in a position to understand the fundamental text that regulates our civil coexistence. So I would like, as mentioned by Senator D'Alì and Senator Crimi, that the Government wanted, for the sake of our country, to take a pause for reflection on this text, which, among other things, goes so deeply into mechanisms (almost administrative or regulation) that do not fit into our Constitution. I don't know if you've ever seen beautiful old villas with surfaces, for example with anodized aluminum windows. Here, the idea that this text gives, compared to the rest of the Constitution, is something similar; a kind of herpes on beautiful lips. [[Applause from Senator Bocchino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u127	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the eligible part of Amendment 39.1c, tabled by Senator D'Alì, identical to Amendments 39.2c, tabled by Senator Bignami and other Senators, 39.3c, tabled by Senator Biinella and other Senators, and 39.4c, tabled by Senator D'Alì. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 39,200 to 39,31c are inadmissible. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 39.35c, tabled by Senator Calderoli, until the words "comma 9" on page 7 of the dossier in electronic format. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 39.35c and Amendments 39.36c, on page 7 of the dossier in electronic format, and 39.600, on page 7 of the main dossier, are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 39.42c, tabled by Senator Calderoli, until the words "with the following" are inserted on page 7 of the dossier in electronic format. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 39.42c and Amendments 39.38c on page 7 of the main dossier, 39.41c and 39.37c, on page 7 of the dossier in electronic format, are therefore excluded. Amendments 39.2001 and 39.2002 have been withdrawn. Amendment 39.43c is inadmissible. Amendment 39.2003 has been withdrawn. Amendments 39,601, 39,44c and 39,900 are absorbed by the adoption of amendment 37,200. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 39.800, on page 9 of the main dossier, identical to Amendment No 39.48c, on page 8 of the dossier in electronic format.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u130	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, why was not Amendment 39.38c put to the vote on page 7 of the main file? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendment 39.38c was foreclosed as a result of the rejection of Amendment 39.42c, tabled by Senator Calderoli. CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, this is one of the cases where the so-called kangaroo technique probably does not work well. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you wish, the amendment will be put to the vote. CRIMI (M5S). I would like to try to make it clear how we sometimes follow procedures that do not correspond to good and quality legislation. Our proposal is to replace the words 'ten days' with the words 'twenty days', which is different from that contained in Senator 39.42c's amendment, put to the vote, which proposed to raise the days to forty-five. Faced with the latter proposal, someone might well say no, as forty-five days is four and a half times more than ten days. My proposal is instead to raise the number of days from ten to twenty and there may be senators in agreement in raising to this extent the time limits for the application of the rules referred to in Article 72. Perhaps the mechanism of foreclosure should be done backwards, that is, gradually by the amendment closer to the farthest. If I reject the nearest amendment (in this case my amendment) it is clear that the amendment that provides for 45 days is also excluded, whereas this is not the case with the procedure that we are applying, which certainly involves a violation of the possibility for the senators to express their opinion. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u131	All right.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u132	We shall proceed with the vote on Amendment No 39.800. CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, did you say that you agree, or did I hear wrong? Should I go check out the shorthand report? I'm gonna ask you to be clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u133	It was a way to take note of what he said, that you can also share, but the cut and foreclosure there are. It was just a way of saying that I take note of what you said. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 39,800, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators, identical to amendment 39,48c, tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 39,801 and 39,802 are inadmissible. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment No 39.50c, tabled by Senator Calderoli, until the words 'with the following texts', on page 8 of the dossier in electronic format. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 39.50c and amendments 39.51c to 39.55c, on page 8 of the dossier in electronic format, are therefore excluded. Amendments 39/2004 to 39.2006 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment No 39.61c.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u136	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak in an explanation of vote on this amendment, although I had previously asked for the floor to ask the reasons for the inadmissibility of Amendment No 39.43c, which seems to me to be a rather strange decision, since this amendment called for the elimination of vitalities. I would have liked to have had clarification, but we rushed to vote on Amendment No 39.800. If you can clarify this inadmissibility, we will thank you. I would now like to speak in an explanation of vote on the amendment that we are about to vote on, namely Amendment No 39.61c. You have already declared many amendments inadmissible, you have eliminated the legislative functions of the Senate in important matters, such as health and education, after you have made a big mess about the reform of the school: I remember that schools already have great difficulty in carrying on the reform of the school. Well, despite this, we are continuing unceasingly in the approval of this constitutional reform, without accepting any of the adjustments proposed by the minority, despite the fact that President Grasso himself has declared some issues valid, as he did just now. Unfortunately, however, you did not accept the corrections. I would therefore ask you to consider this amendment. In the legislation before us, it is foreseen that, within ten days of the entry into force of the constitutional reform, the Constitutional Court can be used to verify the compatibility of the Constitution of Italicum. It's a law to verify... [[Brusio]] I ask colleagues to listen: we are talking about constitutional reforms. [[Brusio.]] President, please...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u137	Colleagues, let's listen to Senator Blondo. However, I would ask you to remain on the subject of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u138	BLUNDO (M5S). I remain on the subject of the amendment, Mr President. The legislation under consideration therefore provides that such recourse to the Constitutional Court may be made by at least a quarter of the members of the Chamber or a third of the members of the Senate: it is about 160 Members and about 107 Senators. On the other hand, we ask that one fifth of the members of the House, which corresponds to 126 Members, be brought before the Court. We are also asking for this because it is the current Parliament that has been elected by constitutionally flawed law to put its hand in the reform of the Constitution. So we are putting our hands on the Constitution, taking over this right, even though there is an imbalance in the representativeness of this Assembly, as stated by the Constitutional Court, with the well-known judgment No. 1 of 2014, in reference to electoral law No. 270 of 2005. Therefore, we must at least broaden the possibility of assessing a new electoral law, which could be unconstitutional, also giving minorities the opportunity to appeal to the Constitutional Court. We therefore call for this number to be reduced, because it is truly absurd that a Parliament which has come out of a non-constitutional law may feel legitimate and entitled to a mutilation of a part of the Senate, without having heard the citizens, to know if it prefers that the number of Members of Parliament be reduced in both Chambers, and above all to such radical action on our Constitutional Charter. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u139	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 39.61c, tabled by Senator Crimes and other senators, up to the words "with the following words." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 39.61c and amendments 39.58c to 39.60c, on page 9 of the dossier in electronic format, are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 39.902, tabled by Senator Calderoli, on page 11 of the main file. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 39.901, tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 39.62c, tabled by Senator Calderoli, until the words... with the following words, on page 9 of the dossier in electronic format. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 39.62c and Amendments 39.63c to 39.65c, page 9 of the dossier in electronic format, as well as amendment 39.66c, on page 11 of the main dossier, are therefore excluded. Amendments 39.67c and 39.68c are inadmissible. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 39.69c, tabled by Senator Crimes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u142	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, you did not leave the time to vote, you gave us just one second: repeat that vote, I did not have time to vote! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, I'll leave more time for the vote. Say how you intend to vote, Senator Cotti. Cotti (M5S). Endorsed by Parliament (first reading)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u145	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, my vote was also in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u146	We take note of that, that it remains in the record. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 39.903, tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 39.201 to 39.905 are inadmissible. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment No 39.70c, tabled by Senator Calderoli, until the words "with the following words," on page 9 of the dossier in electronic format. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 39.70c and Amendment 39.71c are therefore excluded. Amendment 39.73c is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the sub-amendments tabled to the Government's amendment 39.1000. Amendment 39,1000\1 is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 39.1000/2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u147	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u149	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, that is acceptable, isn't it? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes. MARTON (M5S). Here, then, I have a question: I was convinced that it was unacceptable because it was out of regulatory scope. I went to touch on the introductory part of the amendment exclusively, putting it in the plural, and the Government expressed an opinion contrary to this amendment. However, if we go to read the Government's amendment there is a problem of logical interpretation because it starts with the device that reads: "Add the following period at the end" and we know that the period ends with the point, the exclamation point or the question point. Therefore, if I go to read, the period to be added should end with the words "of this Constitutional Law." So I want to understand if the government wants to stop at this point and therefore intends to include only this period, cashing out everything that follows. Otherwise my amendment is right, which puts this sentence to the plural and should therefore have a favourable opinion and be put to the vote. I don't know if we're against Italian now! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senators Crimes and D'Alì]] I'd say that's really unworthy.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u150	Senator Marton, you are right, so as Amendment No 39,1000/2 has no scope for amendment, we do not vote for it and I declare it inadmissible. We take note of the cooperation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u151	MARTON (M5S). President. - Forgive me, however: how many of these amendments may have been made admissible or inadmissible by mistake? If the government were to write the amendments well once and for all we would also be willing not to do these interventions. Mr President, since it is an amendment by the Government, I believe that the Government can write it correctly once and for all. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You are right, when we arrive at the Government's amendment 39,1000 you will have to write down the following periods.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u152	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u154	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to understand whether you propose that the plural be transposed in coordination or do so by the government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This is not a coordination. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). The Italian language, Mr President, must be respected. What does the government say, if it says "period" and instead there are two periods?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u155	In the Government's amendment 39,1000, the following period shall be inserted at the end of paragraph 10: [[Senator Marton's comments.]] The Government will refer to the following periods. I don't know, let's hear the government. However, this does not enter the body of legislation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u156	That is right, Mr President, it does not affect the scope of legislation. It is simply the premise of the body of the amendment. Therefore, I sincerely believe that the observation is fine, but it does not affect the text of the transitional rule in that paragraph. It is simply the introduction to the text. It's fine if it's the following periods.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u157	It is therefore understood that the following periods are to be taken into account. [[Comments from Senators Crimes and Marton.]] I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 39,1000/3, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, until the words "present constitutional law" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 39.1000/3 and Amendment 39.1000/4 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 39,1000/5, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators, up to the words "from the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 39 1000/5 and amendments 39 1000/6 to 39 1000/10 are therefore excluded. Amendment 39,1000/11 is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 39.1000/12, which is essentially the same as Amendment No 39.1000/17, on which the requested number of senators requested a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 39,1000/12, tabled by Senator Calderoli, essentially identical to amendment 39,1000/17, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u158	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u160	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, excuse me, but I would like to understand how it is possible for the PD delegate, Senator Tonini, to give explanations of vote on a secret vote. [[Comments from the PD Group. Applause from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] You tell me if, in regulatory terms, that's something you can do. I believe that it is indecent and outside of any Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u161	Senator Santangelo, you're right, but you can't know if anyone followed your directions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u162	[[Applause from the PD Group and the Repetti and Bellot Senators]] That's the problem: he gives directions, but... SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, please take this seriously. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I mean it. The Rules of Procedure say nothing about this. SANTANGELO (M5S). So, you say there is no regulation? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, no. SANTANGELO (M5S). The important thing is that you say so, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you find him, he'll offer me a partnership. SANTANGELO (M5S). I think it is a very serious thing for you to allow someone to give indications of vote on the secret vote in this House. It's a shame. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u163	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 39,1000/13, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 39.1000/14.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u164	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u166	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, this amendment of ours should be very welcome to that part of the Democratic Party which called for the amendment of paragraph 5 of Article 2, because it reinforces the concept of compliance with the choices made by voters also on regional laws. We, in fact, have introduced a principle, but we must be sure that it is then observed by all those who have to apply it, even in the second-round laws. Therefore, apart from the fact that the requests made by the PD minority at the time have now been the subject of the compromise and final agreement on the text of Article 2, I believe that the criterion of compliance with the choices made by the voters is the patrimony of this constitutional law and must be absolutely reaffirmed, since here we are talking about another regulatory "turn" that is at the head of the Regions. In order to avoid subsequent disputes or different interpretations that give rise to disputes between national and regional law, it is therefore appropriate to reiterate this on this occasion too.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u167	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 39,1000/14, tabled by Senators D'Alì and Romani Paolo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 39.1000/15, which is essentially the same as Amendment No 39.1000/16.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u168	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u170	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, Amendment No 39,1000/16 is even more clear than that of Senator D'Alì, whose words, perhaps, have not been interpreted correctly by my fellow Members, having gone a bit different in language. On the contrary, we must be very precise in order to understand what we are voting on. The amendment refers to the words: "in accordance with the choices made by the electorate." This is a simple and identical wording to what was approved by the Finocchiaro amendment and, therefore, without any linguistic change. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u171	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 39.1000/15, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators, which is essentially identical to Amendment No 39.1000/16, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 39.1000/18, tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 39,1000/19 is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 39.1000.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u172	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u174	LO MORO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Boschi, I take the floor to express, on behalf of the PD Group in its entirety, the vote in favour and our satisfaction with this amendment, which has enabled the entire Group to find itself in the legislation. I spend just a few words and I address it above all to those who listen to us, because many things have been said today, especially in the technical field, which distance them from the truth. Amendment No 39.1000 has its own reason to be that it is deeply political and, for this reason, I am speaking primarily to all of us and to all of us who are listening to us outside this House. The political reason for this is that we all want the amendments made to the second and fifth paragraphs of Article 2 concerning the electoral system that we have introduced for the election of the Senators of the Republic to be effective immediately. I very much appreciated the President's words on an occasion when he spoke of a subject that had a bearing on this subject. He, speaking of Article 2, said something sacred for a technician of law: when writing the rules, when modifying a paragraph, the article must be reread in its entirety and must be interpreted. This is especially true of those who read an article in its entirety. There is no doubt today that we could certainly have written that article better if there had not been the problem of double-reading in accordance with it, as well as the amendment before us and the Government could have written better if there had been no need to respect a principle. Well, that rule (Article 2 (2) and (5)) establishes one very clear thing: it will be the citizens who choose senators at regional level and, basically, the regional advisers, when they elect them, will only ratify this choice. And, therefore, the interpretation to be given is nothing more than this. The real point of this debate is that transitional legislation had to solve the problem of immediacy, that is, what will happen when this legislature is completed, when it is over (however it ends, I say at the end of the legislature), when it will no longer be possible to convene electoral meetings for the Senate. The rule therefore establishes the rules by which the first Senate of the new phase will be elected. In my opinion, the effect that we want to achieve with this amendment is only one, namely that for this first phase too, and for the elections that will be contextual or subsequent to the establishment of the first Senate, the rule set out in Article 2 (2) and (5) is the only one possible. Consider that this is not a small matter, because in 2018 there will be a vote on 24 million voters at regional level, at least 7 or 8 regional councils will be renewed. So, knowing from now on that we are not introducing a principle that will never apply, but we are giving citizens the opportunity to choose senators, it will be possible as soon as the regional councils in the various regions are renewed, but immediately. Therefore, the amendment makes it clear that the new legislation will apply immediately, that it will immediately be the citizens who will choose for the regions that will go to new elections. Many have made a technical speech, criticizing the contextuality of this amendment with paragraph 6 which, with great honesty, recalls. Clearly, each of us, if possible, could have suppressed that paragraph 6. And if we want to say it from a technical point of view, after having clearly stated what we want to achieve with this amendment, there was no need, if there had not been that deletion, to tell the Italian Parliament that it can immediately provide and make a law. But we wanted this, and we wanted it together with the government. It must be said clearly, because the rule of paragraph 6, which is closing, could seem to be a rule that prevented this Parliament from law-making. The commitment that we must make, as a majority and as a Parliament at the moment, by voting on this amendment, is to go beyond technicalism and also to respect the will that we have put into practice with it. And how can we do that? I now turn to Mr Boschi: we can only achieve this in one way, which is already photographed in this amendment. As soon as the reform is approved and will enter into force, this Parliament, perhaps starting from this Senate of the Republic, will have to put hand to the national law provided for in the sixth paragraph of Article 2, and then to start the process that will lead to the approval of the regional laws, allowing with a legislation completed to the regional councils to be elected and to the senators, elected at the same time to the regional councillors, to be it according to the new discipline. Mr Boschi, we acknowledge them, because we have passed, from positions which are not opposed but which, however, have faced each other, that we have listened very appropriately. Some points that the Government and even part of the Democratic Party supported had a technical basis. I am thinking of the speech, so dear to Mr Boschi, to hold to the double compliance that some of us might have wanted to reverse. But this is no longer the time to divide ourselves into technical aspects. We listened within the Group and also with her, who accepted and shared this passage politically. We make a commitment, as parliamentarians. We do not submit agendas to the Government for future legislation, because we claim the right and duty of this Parliament to provide. We expect, however, also a formal position, the position of a government that, as it has accompanied this reform, is ready to face with the same urgency, the same speed and determination its implementation, starting from the approval of the law that will immediately allow the citizens to choose the regional senator councilors of the Republic.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u175	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u177	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I regret to freeze the self-celebrative enthusiasm of Senator Lo Moro's surrender, but what could happen is completely different from what she says will happen. Since - as Professor Quagliariello teaches us - this rule lacks closure, it could well happen that the six months, within which the constitutional law of the new electoral system of senators is to be approved, fall after the elections. After the definitive approval of the norm, the Chambers, in fact, can be dissolved immediately, ten days after the possibility of appeal to the Court that, moreover, does not exist under the electoral law of the Senate. Have you read paragraph 10? It, if you have read it well, prevents, in the combination of the time available, from being able to use for the electoral law of the Senate the immediate recourse to the Constitutional Court, which is expected only within ten days after the entry into force of the law. And, since the Senate election law must take place after the entry into force of the constitutional law, for that Senate of the Republic - as the President, in his exegesis, could certainly agree - will not be usable. So, I'll show you what might happen again. I'm not telling you what's gonna happen: you give for sure what's gonna happen, but I'm gonna tell you what's gonna happen. The law is finally passed, it comes into force after the referendum, within a few days the Chambers can be dissolved and the six months will take effect usefully. There may be two elections before the six months expire, as our system takes fifty days to organize the elections in accordance with constitutional terms. Therefore, his self-celebration of success is, instead, a celebration of surrender, in perfect communist style. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u178	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u180	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, we are about to vote for yet another piece of crap in this condominium regulation, which I continue to call it that, because that is what will come out. I regret to contradict what Mrs Lo Moro says, but we are about to vote on a paragraph of an article which runs counter to an earlier paragraph. If it were true what Senator Lo Moro said - and I repeat this - they would have had to formulate it differently; they would have to give an indication that it was possible, from the very beginning, to make electoral law. Anyway, it wasn't written that this couldn't be done right away. Who said it couldn't be done right away? In paragraph 6 it is written: "within six months of the date of the holding of the elections". It means that that is the final date and, therefore, you can do it right away. Why specify that? To specify this means within six months of the adoption of this law, which is different from the deadline that was written before, i.e. within six months of the conduct of the electoral consultations. So, in fact, you've changed the deadline. If the point had been made by Senator Lo Moro, namely that this Parliament could already start working on this electoral law - and, I agree, it should do so now - there was no need to table this amendment either, because no one forbade it. He'd given himself a final date. There will be the next consultation and, within six months, there must be this law. But the norm does not provide that the new rooms should make it; it can be done even before, since that is only the deadline. If instead we say that that term is to be understood in the sense that it starts from the effectiveness of this law, then it is understood that the term of the six months begins from that moment. In fact, therefore, you have changed the term and that means that you have put two different terms in two paragraphs of the same article. You have made an illegible norm, which is to be interpreted, as President Grasso himself said. It's to be interpreted. We are doing a constitutional reform, a constitutional law; we are not doing the building regulation. Yet we are making rules, or rather you are doing, because it is good to point out that we, as a Group, want to keep away from everything that is causing this monster. In a paragraph you are imposing a timetable for the formation of that electoral law that will have to regulate the election of the new Senate in accordance - it is the most exact term you used - with the electoral choices. But we know that the temporal term is not peremptory, sanctioned in some way. We are used to the deadlines, especially the legislative deadlines. When you give a proxy to the government, this expires. Within six months Parliament must issue this law: and at six months and one day what happens? Does anyone explain it to me? What's the penalty? What law comes into force? In six months and thirty days, in a year, if the law isn't done, what happens? Here comes the teacher and wands on our hands? No, that is in the Chamber of Deputies; we have the principal here, much more severe and, in any case, less masterful than the colleague from the other branch of Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Well, having said that, I would like to make you understand, particularly those who have surrendered - in the true sense of the word - and have abandoned all resistance to this text, that what has been approved is a fraud: nothing will happen. There will come an electoral law that will not change by a comma what is already foreseen. Among other things, the term 'electing' has remained in the text, but how can it be said that regional advisers will elect in accordance? I understand what President Finocchiaro said just now about how we can guarantee the secret vote. An election made, however, on the basis of things already written before is a ratification and, you yourself said that, in fact, they will ratify. At least, then, change the deadline: they ratify, appoint or take note. But you cannot do that and, therefore, an election is made but the result is already written in a national law that will make this Parliament. Do you understand that something's wrong? There is also a child who is wrong, which is a wrong text. What we contest is that this is a text that, even if you want to agree with your positions, you cannot read. It is a text that cannot be taught in classrooms in constitutional law courses. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But do you realize that students under constitutional law will laugh at you, laugh at the teachers, who will laugh behind this Parliament in turn? The seventeenth legislature will remain in history as the one that wrote the most wrong constitutional text there can be. This is what we will leave to our posterity. I hope you realize that one day. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u181	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u183	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr. President, I don't know if I should call you a teacher. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you call me President, use the right term. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). You see, everyone in life - for goodness sake - can tell what he wants, but at least in this House you should pay attention to what you say, because the report of this debate will be very important for those who then read the constitutional reform and will have to understand the meaning of it. The interpretations, of course, will be many. When I say that everyone can tell what he wants, I turn to Senator Lo Moro, of whom I have too much esteem. You had to make a detailed construction of your speech to show that, in the end, this Senate will still be elected by the citizens, not as a separate issue, but on the basis of a clear and precise choice of citizens. If this had really been the point of agreement in your party, it is clear that we would have spoken again - as has been done surreptitiously with this amendment, Mr President - on paragraph 2 of Article 2 of this draft law. When a citizen, but also a student of law, will take this text, will read very clearly, in paragraph 2, that the Regional Councils and the Councils of the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano elect, with proportional method, the senators among their members and, to the extent of one for each, between the mayors of the Municipalities of their respective territories. What has been added after - in accordance with (...) - is evident to all that it will have to be interpreted. And then we'll see how this law is done when it's done. But the political point is exactly this: one can also say - and I respect it - that the unity of the Democratic Party is the supreme good. It is more honest to say so and we all would have respected it, of course. But you cannot come here and say that, in the end, the rule has actually changed and that this Senate will not be a second appointment. You can't come and distort the truth. This amendment, which is in open contradiction to paragraph 6 of Article 39, adds a further element of confusion, because at this point it can also make paragraph 6 read in one way, as it can read in another. He is right who said that the rule of paragraph 6 at the bottom was a final term; therefore no one forbade, if indeed there was a will to take a step forward, to begin to make this law immediately. Having said that, the same reasoning applies, reading carefully the amendment in question, which just recently explained Senator D'Alì: once the referendum has been held, I believe that no one can prevent someone else or think that the Chambers cannot be dissolved, with all that it entails. In short, Mr President, we have seen everything. We have already said exactly this morning what we think of this amendment, including the fact that it was admissible; you yourself said that it should be interpreted. It is in fact that we are creating a constitutional reform text full of contradictions. And I don't know who might be able to interpret it, but I don't think we can do a constitutional revision like this. There are other cases, too, and I said this this morning, and I confirm that this time we won't tell you. You will see, however, that there are other clear and obvious contradictions with other articles of the Constitution, and not just the first part (I think of Article 122). You will see that in the end, even after the referendum: we obviously think we will win it, rejecting this reform, but if that is not the case, I believe that on many parts of the constitutional reform someone will have to put his hand in it. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u184	We greet teachers, students and students of the Institute including •Giacinto Romano • of Eboli, in the province of Salerno. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u185	Mr President, I appreciated the speech made by Senator Lo Moro, because he clarified the meaning of the amendment tabled by the Government, which only makes clear what paragraph 6 of Article 39 already provided for. Following the entry into force of this constitutional law, already in the current legislature Parliament will be able to approve the electoral law for the election of the new Senate, to which the Regions will then have to adapt, indicating also the deadline within which they will have to provide. Therefore, there is no discrasia between paragraph 10 of Article 39, which sets the deadline from which this law can be approved, and paragraph 6 of Article 39, which sets the final deadline within which it must be approved. I believe that the students of constitutional law will not have any difficulty, since, in the first year of law, with institutions governed by private law, they will study the difference between dies a quo and dies ad quem. I don't think they're gonna have any trouble. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Having said that, of course, I welcome the Democratic Party's call to adopt the electoral law for the new Senate already in this legislature. And the government's commitment, together with the majority parties that shared this amendment, is to work, as far as they are competent, to give the country a new electoral law for the new Senate, in such a way that it is able to elect it in full respect of the choices shared in this Parliamentary Assembly. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bianconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u186	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u187	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u188	MARTON (M5S). I apologise to the House and the Presidency, but I believe that once the representative of the Government intervenes outside the expression of opinions, the debate will reopen. However, that was not the point of my speech... President. That's why you, Senator Marton, have the floor. MARTON (M5S). Yes, but I would also like to speak on another matter, and therefore, Mr President, I would still have asked you to speak. My question is as follows. I am still surprised, and I am not clear why Amendment 39,1000/19 was declared inadmissible. The reason is simple, and I'm going to go along with what the Minister said a moment ago. There is talk of electoral law to which the Regions will have to adapt their legislation within three months. My amendment came to the aid of the Government: I know that it is difficult to believe that an amendment tabled by myself is of help to the Government, but that is the case. My intention was not to repeat what has already happened in Lombardy over and over again, i.e. that the state framework legislation is not transposed and that the electoral law is not adopted. My amendment did nothing but apply Article 120 of the Constitution by providing, where the Regions do not legislate in accordance with state law, that the Government exercises the substitute powers by adopting the electoral law. I wonder what's wrong with or doesn't go into an amendment like this. You must explain to me why this amending proposal has been declared inadmissible. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u189	The problem is the government's substitute powers.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u190	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u191	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u192	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise very quickly to reiterate that, despite the Government's reassurances, it is clear to everyone how confused, cumbersome and contradictory the transitional rules have been drawn up. I say this in particular to you, Mrs Minister, who, I believe, has a greater awareness of this than what you have already, in some way, testified to this House when you spoke about interpretations and the linking of the text. All this has happened while having the time and the possibility to avoid the confusion between paragraphs 6 and 10 on a qualifying point such as that of the guarantee of popular participation in the election of members of the future Senate. Perhaps I too have a fault because, in contesting the role of Dr Aquilanti, Secretary-General of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, in drawing up the amendments, it has led him to refrain from working on these texts which he would have drafted better, avoiding this linguistic and constitutional disaster. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reply to Senator Marton because I read Article 120 (2) of the Constitution, which regulates the government's substitute powers. These powers do not include replacing the regions if the electoral law is not adopted. That is, therefore, the reason for the declaration of inadmissibility of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u194	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u195	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u196	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, on a point of order under Rule 99 (2), which reads: If the representative of the Government, after the intervention referred to in the preceding paragraph, has taken the floor again - concerning the declaration of closure of the general discussion - he will take the floor again on the subject under consideration for further statements, eight Senators - I invite you, President, to make a verification, as my colleagues in the Group are available - may request that a new discussion be opened on these statements, in which no more than one speaker for each parliamentary group may participate. Mr President, I would therefore ask you to reopen the debate on the statements just made by the Minister, giving one speaker per Group the opportunity to speak on this matter. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crimes, Senator Gasparri has already intervened for the Forza Italia Group. Anyone who wants to speak can ask for it and will be given the floor, as has always been the case so far. [[Comments of Senator Crimes]] MARTON (M5S). I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u197	Senator Marton, at this stage we can only speak about the Minister's intervention, because, from the Rules of Procedure, the debate is reopened on it. [[Senator Marton's comments.]] Senator Gasparri has already intervened. If no one else asks to speak, let us proceed with the vote on Amendment No 39.1000. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 39.1000, tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 39.603, tabled by Senator Piccoli and other senators, identical to the part admissible to Amendments Nos 39.74c, tabled by Senator Biinella and other senators, and 39.602, tabled by Senator Piccoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 39.202 to 39.82c are inadmissible, as are Amendments 39.79c and 39.78c, on page 10 of the dossier in electronic format. Amendments 39.85c and 39.84c, on page 25 of the main file, which are partially inadmissible, have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 39.611 tabled by Senator D'Alì and other senators, on page 26 of the main file, identical to amendment 39.83c, tabled by Senator Calderoli, on page 10 of the dossier in electronic format. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 39.700 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u198	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u199	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u200	Cotti (M5S). I am only asking for my signature to be added to this amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do the hosts agree? ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u201	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u202	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u203	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am always in favour of the fact that self-government can receive additional freedom and legislative possibilities. I would like to point out, however, that the same things as the amendment tabled by Mr Zeller have been proposed in other articles, in their own place, where we have dealt with Article 116 of the Constitution, and not in this article. Yesterday they were rejected, as expressed in the same formula, while the Government now gives a favourable opinion to this amendment. I agree with what concerns Trento, Bolzano and everything else, but it is absurd that the government's ability to say yes or no to an amendment always bends behind blackmail.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u204	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u205	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u206	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Senator Calderoli is quite right, but there is a fundamental reason for this: there are no budgetary balances in this article. So some regions, which previously could not have exercised more forms of autonomy, because of budgetary balances, with this rule they can exercise them freely, without needing to observe them. His arch is so solved, Senator Calderoli. I believe that once again a resounding mistake or courtesy is being made to someone who is beginning to be a little too privileged by the rules of this Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senators Castaldi and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u207	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u208	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u209	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, you will forgive me and I hope the House will, because I would like to return for 12 seconds just as soon as possible to reply to Amendment No 39.1000/19. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Be patient for ten seconds! PRESIDENT Be telegraphic, Senator Marton, but this is not a dispute between us. He doesn't want to be, he wants to be a clarification for me: when I go to give, as legislator, the constitutional powers to do this thing, so I give constitutionally the powers to the government, he tells me where the inadmissibility lies? That's what I don't understand: I'm the one who's giving powers, constitutionally speaking. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Explain it to me. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u210	You had to ask to amend Article 120 of the Constitution, you can't put something in it like this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u211	Martini (PD). But the government did the same thing before.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u212	Clearly, there is no need to continue on this issue. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 39,700 (text 3), tabled by Senator Zeller and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 39.701 and 39.906, 39.811 to 39.2007, 39.97c, on page 10 of the dossier in electronic format, and 39.98c are therefore excluded. Amendments 39.808 to 39.810, 39.2 and 39.2008 to 39.204 are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 39.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u213	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u214	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u215	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, we are about to vote on Article 39, so the transitional rules to move from our old constitution, now obsolete, the most beautiful one in the world, to the new papocchio that is coming out of this strange agreement within the PD. Article 39, together with Article 2, contains all the compromise within the party that managed to make this masterpiece: it is important to understand it, because the two compromise articles are just 2 and 39. What I would therefore like to make clear, not so much to you - because you do not listen to us and now the debate in here does not exist - but to those outside, what is this famous plate of lentils with which the PD, or at least its minority, sold to vote for this reform. [[Protests from the PD Group.]] In a metaphorical sense, of course. Mr Fornaro (PD). This isn't the market! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, please, you cannot make statements of this kind. VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. What did he say? FACTORS (M5S). The truth hurts, I know it: but we have to go on, of course; it was a metaphor and as long as this Constitution is in force... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It must deal with this issue from a political point of view. FACTORS (M5S). Of course. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You cannot offend the senators present and call you to order from this point of view. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] Quiet, let the surgery finish. FACTORS (M5S). It was of course a metaphor within my prerogatives of insindacability as a senator of the Republic. [[Protests from the PD Group.]] Mr Russo (PD). Time's up, ma'am! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Use metaphors differently. FACTORS (M5S). Metaphors are allowed. This is an objectively political sale. [[Live, repeat protests from the PD Group.]] Why? Are we talking sales, apparently? FADELI (PD). President, I'm not a sold-out, okay? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fattori, use words and a political theme that are not offensive to senators. We gave ourselves this self-discipline. [[Brusio.]] Quiet, let me talk. FACTORS (M5S). Selling is not a bad word, but then we say exchange: and then, what is this plate of lentils with which they exchanged their vow? [[Live, repeat protests from the PD Group.]] Not even lentils is a bad word, let's face it, right? What do I say? A plate of legumes with a vote. So let's see what this plate of legumes is and what these senators are going to vote for. We said that this new Constitution, which I would call Verdini-Napolitano, because even Minister Boschi said that, after all, it was not his project, but Napolitano's, and Senator Verdini is a bit the puppeteer of all this constitutional reform. Actually... [[Comments from the PD Group. Applause from Senator Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u216	Senator Fattori, if you continue with this theme and with these words...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u217	FACTORS (M5S). Verdini isn't a bad word, nor is he a puppeteer. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We have given ourselves a form of self-discipline, not to offend people and senators in particular. MARTELLI (M5S). This is censorship! FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, I am expressing my political opinion, in the indisputability of the Senator of the Republic and you cannot, for this reason, delegitimize me: be ashamed! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You're acting like a referee who kicks players instead of the ball. CARDINALI (PD). Cut it out! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. And you use political themes. Senator Fattori, I call you back to order... CASTALDI (M5S). But for what, Mr. President? FACTORS (M5S). Verdini is not a bad word, a plate of legumes is not a bad word, and that's it! Mr Manconi (PD). Quaquaraquà! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let the appeal to order remain on the record. FACTORS (M5S). So let's narrow it down: do we have the right to speak here, as senators of the Republic, yes or no? Do we have the right to express our political thinking? [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u218	You have no right to offend...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u219	FACTORS (M5S). Verdini is voting for this reform, I have not offended anyone! (Brusio) AIROLA (M5S). This House cannot speak! The right to speak offends their hypocritical conscience! [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u220	...The right to speak must be limited to the other rights.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u221	Senator Airola, I'm calling you back to order. FACTORS (M5S). I'd ask you to give me the floor again. It is in your responsibility to give the floor to a senator of the Republic, so let me speak. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, I'll let her talk as long as she sticks to political issues and avoids offending. FACTORS (M5S). Legume dish isn't just a swear word! SANTANGELO (M5S). Bravo! FACTORS (M5S). I didn't offend anyone! SANTANGELO (M5S). You're the only one talking! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, I'm calling you back to order! We all gave ourselves self-discipline. FACTORS (M5S). But it's not censorship! Self-discipline cannot be censored! This is censorship and not self-discipline. I'm telling you how this reform came about and Senator Verdini is voting for it, so tell me why I can't name it Senator Verdini, are you ashamed? Let's face it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I didn't tell her not to mention Senator Verdini. Did I say that? FACTORS (M5S). Is that a bad word? What's wrong with Senator Verdini? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I said that it supports this reform, why are you offended, excuse me? Senator Verdini, you offend yourself at this point! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u222	Finish your speech, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u223	FACTORS (M5S). So, let's see what this reform is, that with this compromise, you can say "compromise"? Can it be said or is it a swearing "compromise"? [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Let us see what the reform is and what the compromise is. This project - can we call it the reform Verdini-Napolitano without anyone being offended? - it's actually an old-fashioned project. Minister Boschi said: It's been so many years that we've been trying to make this project happen. It's true, it's been years. The first traces of this project are found in the suitcase of the daughter of Licio Gelli, where there was the famous plan of democratic rebirth. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Can you say Licio Gelli, President, or is that a bad word? I don't know. It was the plan of democratic rebirth of the P2, a Masonic plan (massonic can be said in this House?), was a subversive plan that embarrassedly resembles this reform, because it provided for a Senate with a second level election. [[Protests from the PD Group.]] Can't you even say second level? I'm embarrassed! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, I invited her to conclude because the time available has long ended. You've been out of time for a few hours. FACTORS (M5S). But, Mr President, we have said a few words: if you do not let me speak, my time will of course expire. Let me make a point. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invited her to the conclusion. Time's up. FACTORS (M5S). President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party [[. (Comments from PD and M5S Groups.]] This is a project where a second-level election was planned, such as the one these senators are accepting here today. Then let's see what the compromise is, because in reality here you don't have a loss of the perfect bicameralism. You do not abolish the perfect bicameralism: here you abolish democracy, as you abolished public school with good school, as you abolished work with jobs act, as you abolished the right to health that you are abolishing reforming health that you call good health. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I ask you a favor: don't take care of hunger in the world, because if you want to abolish hunger in the world, do a massacre! And the risk is that you tweet: "We have abolished hunger in the world" and if we object: "But you killed them all!" answered: "You are owls, while the problem has been solved!" That's the same thing you're doing here. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] To speed up the times, to speed up this crap called democracy, you have abolished democracy! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u224	You have to finish, Senator Fattori.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u225	FACTORS (M5S). Let's go to Article 39. I'm finishing. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u226	Senator Fattori, I invited you to conclude! FACTORS (M5S). Article 39...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u227	[[Comments from the PD Group. Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u228	I wanted to warn the students that they're listening to...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u229	FACTORS (M5S). Listen to students! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Here, they're moving away. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr Pagliari (PD). They're used to it. AIROLA (M5S). President, look at the state of the House! FACTORS (M5S). The first article of the compromise is 2: Senators will be elected by the regional councils; they will not be elected by the people. They will not be representatives of the people, Senator Lo Moro: they will be the expression of the caste for regional politicians. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You have satisfied yourself with an addition (in accordance with the choices expressed by the voters) that does not mean anything; it means nothing, it is a lie, a falsehood. How and when it is governed by this article 39, which tells us that there will be a law, not well determined, approved by this same Parliament or by the next one, within six months of the date of the election of the Chamber of Deputies; therefore by the next government, the one that will be elected with a disgusting majority prize, with this reform, and the regional councillors who will decide how to vote for themselves. You understand that this is already an absurd logic. You are satisfied with paragraph 10, according to which a law - said Minister Boschi himself - can be made (it must not, but it may) within six months of the entry into force of this law. It may, but it will not be done, because there is no obligation; there is no sanction and therefore what will happen, dear gentlemen, is that... I want to tell you. Let me catch my breath because you're making me raise my voice. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] I describe you with a metaphor because the level, as we have seen from various elements, here is very low: you can not even write in Italian. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Protests from the PD Group.]] So, I'm gonna tell you a short story that my elementary school teacher told me. There was poor Pulcinella who was very poor and very frustrated and had no food, while Harlequin, who was rich, cooked the sausages and made him hungry; he was arrogant, he did what he wanted, he did not feed him. Pulcinella, then asks him for a sausage, but Harlequin tells him he has to pay for it. Pulcinella, then, passes the bread on the sausage smoke hoping to eat some fragrant bread... MATTESINI (PD). Stop! [[Senator Cardinal's comments.]] FACTORS (M5S). ...but Harlequin finally asks for his bill. You are eating bread and smoke, you and your constituents: you are feeding it bread and smoke. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Our vote is no to this article 39, which is not even a plate of lentils: it is bread and smoke. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u230	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u231	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u232	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in this Article 39, with the many contradictions that have already been highlighted in the examination of the amendments - and I am not going back to that - three things are clear. The first, in the first application (and in these situations the first application applies to all the others; the others come after, perhaps), if this reform passes - if the Italians unfortunately do not fail it - the future senators will be elected exclusively by the regional councilors with blocked lists: this is the reality. The second: Paragraph 10 says that this law will have to be passed within a certain period but, as has been said in a more colorful way just now, there is no guarantee that this law will be passed. One example: the Constitution in force since 1 January 1948 spoke of the Regions; it included the Regions with all their tasks. They seemed indispensable to be able to implement the entire Constitution (Article 117; it was not invented later). Well, it took 22 years for the regions to come into operation. So it could be six months, maybe, or twenty-two years. The third thing that emerges is outside Article 39. The examination of the amendments has almost ended and one thing has become clear: in no secret vote did the majority have an absolute majority in the Senate. I believe that this should be considered, and the majority and the government should do so in particular. The citizens will think about it in the coming months. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u233	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u234	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u235	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business, because on Rule 39, Senator Chiti will make the explanation of vote. I would like to point out to you that Senator Fattori, in her speech, called Senators of the Democratic Party to be sold, so I would ask you to acquire the registration of the sitting and to bring it to the examination of the Presidency Council. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] In fact, I believe that these highly offensive expressions should also be sanctioned because, as I have already said in this House, it is precisely these manifestations that degenerate our work. I would therefore ask you to apply our regulations strictly on this point. [[Applause from the PD Group.Comments by Senator Ciampolillo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u236	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u237	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u238	Mr Bruni (CoR). Mr President, I too will make a brief statement which also takes up what we have said since this morning, in particular on Amendment No 39.1000. With regard to Article 39, in the wording resulting from today's debate, I think that the best solution would have been to give rise to the adoption of the deletions of Article 39, as proposed by several senators. This would have made it possible to remove those interpretative doubts or remarks about the legislative technique that has been made by several parties, which remain unchanged and which have certainly not been resolved by the last amendments discussed or even by the statements that we have heard from the majority. The basic vice - I repeat and tell Senator Lo Moro - is what you yourself confirmed in your speech. The double reading in accordance was the constraint on this article and the whole process of constitutional reform, limited to the reading we are doing these days. The fact that we had to adhere expressly to the criterion of double-reading could not be violated, because otherwise we went back, and this led to a series of doubts, uncertainties and above all contradictions. Many Members have pointed out the problems that already arise with other constitutional laws, but the problem of bad writing remains. It is true that in this case we are talking about transitional arrangements that are normally more difficult than the others, but from my direct and familiar experience I have had the chance to see how the civil life education workshops that are done in primary schools work and there I saw teaching my daughters the Constitution, because it was easy for children of seven, eight or nine years old to read it too. It does not seem to me that this Constitution is taking on these characteristics. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senators Campanella and Taverna. Some Senators of the M5S Group point out that they want to speak.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u239	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u240	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u241	[[Protests from the M5S Group.]] We can only speak on the vote. AIROLA (M5S). Did Zanda make an explanation of vote? What did Zanda do? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Zanda has requested the convening of the Presidency Council; we will now give an answer and see when to convene it. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] CASTALDI (M5S). Convoke also the Conference of Leaders so that we schedule civil unions. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] Cotti (M5S). Rule 92, President!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u242	Rule 92 concerns the order of business and voting. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] The order of business for now is that of explanations of vote. I gave the floor to Senator De Cristofaro for an explanation of vote. This is the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u243	Mr President, I will also speak very briefly because many times in all these days I have had the opportunity to say the reasons why we have a fundamental dispute over the things we are discussing. Of course we will vote against the rule and we will do so because, despite everything we hear, we continue to think that there is very little clarity within the whole structure of this reform and that there are also many rules that are profoundly contradictory between them. I still do not understand how everything we are discussing so far is reconciled with Article 2, which refers to Article 57 of the Constitution, and the provisions that we are dealing with in it. It remains, Mr President, from our point of view, a fundamental political problem. I very much hope that the political debate in the coming months will explain, in the eyes of the public of this country, the terms of the matter, because I believe that the things we are listening to in this House make the reasoning we are doing extremely confusing, extremely unclear and extremely contradictory. Of course, I am not talking about mediation within a single party in this Parliament, not least if this party is a relative majority, and I am not interested in the quality of that mediation on the part of those who have done it. I am interested to say, however, that I consider it very depressing, for the democracy of this country, that the debate has come to an end when that mediation has been achieved within a party, albeit authoritative and although the most voted in our country, and not in Parliament. It does not seem to me frankly a good example of what the constituent spirit should have been. It seems to me to be deeply in contradiction with the constituent spirit and the teaching to which we should always refer, that of those who wrote the Constitution so many years ago. Evidently, however, that Constitution and also those protagonists forged themselves within historical experiences slightly different from these and perhaps with roots a little deeper than those we are talking about. The mediation achieved, and also the conflict between these rules, are profoundly contradictory. It is perhaps enough, Mr Boschi, to pass the examination under private law, but I am not convinced that it is enough to pass the examination under constitutional law. We'll see about that. Surely, however, it will not be enough to pass the examination to which the Italian people will be called [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and M5S Groups]] Fortunately, this reform does not end here. Fortunately, thanks to the wisdom of our constituent fathers in having written Article 138 in that way, it is not enough to deliberate by a majority of Parliament: the Senate of the Republic now and, probably, the House when the text arrives there. Fortunately, the sovereign people will have to be expressed about this reform and, fortunately, the sovereign people will be able to be questioned about this question. I consider very messy a rule in which it is really unclear whether we are talking about direct election and whether this election is second level. I hear in this House representatives of the same majority claiming everything and the opposite of everything depending on the kind of convenience. And depending, probably, also on political origin and political expression I hear someone say, with great force, that we will elect a second-level Senate. As the future House and Senate will have different functions, and one of them will not have to trust the Government, it would be absurd to elect them both with the mechanism of direct elections. I therefore feel that no senators fully claim the rightness of indirect election. I hear others claim the opposite, i.e. the fact that the election would be directed. Frankly, put yourself in the shoes of an Italian citizen who has to speak in the referendum. There is precisely the obvious contradiction of these norms, and the fact that this mediation has probably been achieved more for the sake, of course legitimate, of finding a unity of the Democratic Party, so unfortunately putting in the background that unity of the Republican Parliament which, allow me, should have come before the unity of the Democratic Party. This is probably the consequence of this mess and we will be able to explain these things with great clarity to the sovereign people. As has been the case many times over the past few years, every time we have tried, in this House, not to share the Italian Constitution, not to discuss it to the end, not to take a few more months, not to share all the passages with the opposition, not to use the constituent spirit, but to reform it, instead, by majority blows: well, every time that has happened the sovereign people has rejected it. I think that, once again, the sovereign people will reject a reform made, precisely, by majority blows and not by the constituent spirit. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u244	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u245	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u246	BOCCHINO (Misto-AEcT). Mr President, I rise in an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the other hand. Article 39, which is already quite objectionable, as many colleagues have explained before me, has also been made further questionable by the same amendment of the Government just approved. I listened to the Minister's statement in defence of this amendment. I did not study private law, but something Latin I remember, having done scientific high school. I agree with the Minister when he says that the amendment adds a term from which this law (the famous Senate electoral law referred to in Article 57 (6) of the Constitution) must be approved, while paragraph 6 of Article 39 specified a deadline. But if this interpretation is correct, then I can't help but notice that this amendment is completely ultra-roneous, given that this famous Senate electoral law is precisely dictated by the present constitutional law. It is clear, therefore, that, if we talk about a term from which this law must be passed, it is of itself that it must necessarily be the one in which the present constitutional law is passed. It is, in fact, precisely thanks to the present constitutional law that the new Senate is put in place and, following this, also the electoral law that will determine its composition. It is, therefore, completely versatile to specify a starting point from which this blessed law can be issued. That is why - and I address myself to Senator Lo Moro - all these criticisms by my colleagues about the ultimate aim of this amendment and, in particular, about the celebratory way in which it was presented by Mr Lo Moro. It simply does not understand why such an amendment could have been tabled by the Government, having no regulatory scope. Basically, we're writing a bad constitution. We have already pointed out in several points the contradictions relating to paragraphs 2 and 6 of Article 57 (the Regional Councils elect according to the will of the electorate); even with this article constitutional law is further ugly. When it comes to the Constitution, the form is also substance. What is being created at this time is a kind of regulatory monster, which will not fail to be revealed as such - this yes - by future scholars of constitutional law. On the other hand, Mr President, it is not that this Article 39 is made acceptable by the commendable amendment, tabled by Senator Zeller, 39.700, which extends to the regions with special status, as well as to the autonomous provinces of Trento and Bolzano, the requirements of Article 116 (3) concerning the possibility for the regions to intervene from a legislative point of view, also on other matters. Mr President, this constitutional reform has been characterised mainly by the snatching of regions, of all regions, of ordinary status and of special status, of legislative prerogatives. Basically, to try to safeguard the autonomy of the regions with special status - which also falls to Sicily from which I come - is of course positive, considering also the fact that one of the effects of this amendment is to ensure that, until the revision of the statutes, legislative power can also be granted by way of derogation from the principle of budgetary balance. It is a budget that - I remind all my colleagues - has been introduced into the Constitution of our Republic even in a completely unmotivated way: ours, in fact, is the only country in Europe that has in its Constitution the balance of the budget. Europe did not even ask us to include this obligation, but in an excess, in a rush of adherence to the neoliberal principles imposed on us by Europe, Parliament, in the last parliamentary term, has opted to include it in Article 81 and beware that the balance of the budget is quite different from the coverage of the spending laws, which, among other things, was already in Article 81, so we are talking about something else that is not necessary. Among other things, Article 81 itself provides for cases where budget balance cannot apply, i.e. cases of a serious economic situation, a safeguard clause which, among other things, does not even exist in this constitutional reform, when the regions are required to balance the budget in order to be able to legislate. So let us think what would happen if this legislative power were to be granted to the regions in order to face a situation of return from a budget deficit (a short circuit would happen), or when the regions were faced with serious problems due to economic crisis or natural disasters and could not in some way legislate because already in a deficit situation. This would create a kind of stop, of constraint, of stake that would prevent the realization of those prerogatives of the Regions, both ordinary statute and special statute. It is, in short, a regulatory mess that is neither in heaven nor on earth, and that is why we, Mr President, declare our vote against Article 39 of this constitutional reform. [[Applause from the Misto-AEcT Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u247	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u248	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u249	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the Group for the Autonomies will vote in favour of the new Rule 39. Of particular interest to our Group is the integration of the safeguard clause for regions with special status and autonomous provinces of Trento and Bolzano, already contained in the reform text approved at first reading by the Senate. I would like to stress the importance of the fact that we are no longer talking about the adaptation of the statutes but, more correctly, about their revision. Thus it is clarified that it will not be sic et simpliciter a transposition of the new Article 117 of the Constitution, but that in the revision of the statutes will take into account the specificities of every special autonomy, it being understood that the changes will always take place on the basis of agreements with the same Regions and Autonomous Provinces. The international guarantees enshrined in the De Gasperi-Gruber agreement and in the so-called Package are clearly still in place. A very important novelty is that the static safeguard clause becomes in the new dynamic Constitution. The article 116, paragraph 3, until now applicable only for the Regions with ordinary statutes is, in fact, extended also to the special self-employed. They will therefore be able to use the same facilitated mechanism, i.e. the enhanced ordinary law, for the allocation of additional legislative and administrative powers. This eliminates an unequal treatment with respect to ordinary regions. In fact, it is not understandable why the powers listed in Article 116 (3) of the Constitution can be attributed to ordinary regions and not to those with differentiated autonomy, if these clearly demonstrate that they are in a position to exercise them. Once the revision of the respective autonomous statutes has taken place, the new third paragraph of Article 116, which provides for an even simpler procedure and a more extensive catalogue of competences than today's Article 116, will be applied. I believe that the important political message coming from this Parliament by a large majority - we have noted with great pleasure that almost all Groups have supported this amendment - is that special autonomy is no longer considered obsolete, but that - on the contrary - the virtuous Autonomous Regions and Provinces will be able - in the context of the renewed concept of asymmetrical regionalism - to be given additional functions. I should like to conclude by expressing my special thanks to the representatives of the Government present here, in particular to Minister Boschi and Secretary of State Pizzetti, for the great sensitivity shown to the authorities of the special autonomous and linguistic minorities. [[Applause from the Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u250	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u251	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u252	CHITI (PD). Mr President, I should like to say a word of regret. Unfortunately, today we have had a new test of the political civilization with which our debates are being discussed. Moving on with the offenses, it is difficult then to believe that there is the possibility of a comparison on the merits. I would also like to say - it is not rhetorical - that I am sorry for the image we gave those children who attended our sitting. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]] I would like to say something to Mr De Cristofaro, who made a speech, asking himself why there was no comparison of merit. Let me ask you something, comrade to comrade. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] We're not ashamed of this and you can shut up. [[Comments of Senator Nugnes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u253	Senator Nugnes, don't intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u254	CHITI (PD). If SEL has given some differentiation that has been made in this debate to appreciate, to diversify the comparison with a resolution of the oppositions in which I do not think you have been hegemony over the contents. And then I'll come a moment later, because, you see, I'm among those who believe that the center-left is still a plural coalition, but then it's made up of behaviors and co-erences, they count tones and they count dislocations, they don't just count pronunciations and declarations of principle. Mrs Doris Lo Moro and then the Minister clarified the aspects within this article and the amendment on the rules for implementing the law that we are adding at the end of her examination. This morning I heard another evaluation from the President of the Senate (I don't know if we interpret the same words differently). I have heard this assessment from the President of the Senate: the amendment, apart from its location and lexical aspects, gives a precise interpretation and a binding criterion for implementing the innovative rules introduced in particular in paragraph 5 of Article 2. The Minister confirmed this at the request of Mr Lo Moro. So I ask myself this: since there is also an explicit assumption of political responsibility of the Group of the Democratic Party and the Government, of the majority and of the Government, since there is an assumption of political responsibility that we take here and in front of the country, this political responsibility applies, is it also a challenge for you or are you hiding behind the quirks? When there are aspects that are considered to be right in a Constitution and there is doubt whether they could be better formulated, if they could be more precise, if they could be placed in another paragraph, it is not denied that there are, but the interpretation that they are present is strengthened. It wasn't like that. I did not honestly understand where they were going and where the oppositions went in this confrontation. GASPARRI. Where did you go? CHITI (PD). On the one hand, for a few days it has been said: you will never implement them, you will never implement these provisions - in 2030 or I don't know when - because it is written within six months of the elections. Then, when it is written that this Parliament, in this parliamentary term, will have to implement the national electoral framework law and that the regions will have to comply, it is said that this is not good. In fact, at first you asked for and voted for the deletion of this amendment and this article. If this is a way to deal with the referendum, we thank you, because I certainly do not know what the citizens will understand, but I think they will understand that we do not know what the oppositions want on this reform. Back and forth: it's the shrimp strategy, rather than being a political strategy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] When a fellow senator - it seems to me that it was Calderoli - attributing it to Senator Quagliariello, who actually raised a question about the closure of the election of the President of the Republic, said that there are no closing rules and clauses, I wonder: but what are the closing clauses to maintain a written fulfilment in the Constitution? The dissolution of Parliament? If it is not fulfilled, does Parliament break up, so it is not fulfilled? But do you realize what they say? What was the norm in the 1948 Constitution? You referred to the fact that it took 20 years to implement the regional system. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). We've been waiting for the union law for 70 years! CHITI (PD). What did those who wanted the Regions do? Did they say that they would abolish that article or would fight in Parliament and in the country for the constitutional requirement to be implemented? With us you will have no reason to fight, because we will fulfill the constitutional dictation. We are committed to fulfilling it. I am surprised to see this attitude especially in the representatives of the North League and Mr Calderoli, with whom we have known for a long time. The Northern League holds the presidency of two major Italian regions. Can it really be said - in case, let us tell others - that regional or municipal councillors are a caste of people sold who, in the absence of a law, as soon as they come here betray the Constitution? Are you kidding me? [[Applause from the PD Group]] I take as my conviction the goodness of local and regional administrators. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We must end it because we have always been among those who, when there was a stain, did not cover it. [[Comments of Senator Cioffi]] However, if there is a stain between some regional councillors or councillors, it cannot be said that it belongs to all local and regional administrators. If that were the case, the whole of Parliament would also be involved in negative choices that do not involve us. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Those who think that trust between citizens can be rebuilt by making democratic and institutional life work in compartmentalized compartments: except for one group and not the others - beautiful democracy! - except for Parliament and not the Regional Councils or local administrations. But this is how we go not far, it is not in this way that we are dealing with the problems of the country and the reconstruction of a relationship of trust. The rule in this article is a concrete step forward for the Democratic Party to vote with conviction. We talked about compromise - yes, compromise - which is a noble word. What is the compromise? In the fact that future senators will be a mayor per Region and regional councillors, chosen directly by citizens. Are you so sorry? It will be so, it is written in the Constitution and we will put it into law. [[Applause from the PD Group]] That's what the Minister said. That's what the Democratic Party Group said. [[Senator De Petris' comments.]] Smile, if you're happy to be behind the League, smile happy and happy. [[Senator De Petris' comments.]] Yes, it is. We will implement this and that is our challenge. See that your challenge - I am sorry to say - is more difficult because you will have to challenge the citizens to say that there is something else written in the Constitution and then you will have to challenge them to say that they will not elect the senators. But as they elect them, what price of credibility will you pay? That's what you need to evaluate. We assume our responsibilities here in Parliament and in front of the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] GRANAIOLA (PD). Bravo! CHITI (PD). But be careful: the rule is written and requires citizens to vote and that the Regional Councils take note. If you say that that is a falsehood and a scam while it is not, you are liable to crimes of fraud and falsehood and you lose credibility. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Attention, this is our challenge and we give you the task of managing the other. ( [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] With this reform we are overcoming the bicameralism of equality - this is a duty for those who want to defend and renew the role of Parliament in today's democracy - and indeed should have done so already. Overcoming equalism means that there will be only one Chamber that will give confidence to the Government and that it will have the last word on laws that are not bicameral. This is the overcoming of the bicameralism on which we find ourselves, not in words, but in deeds. We have also determined the outcome that equal bicameralism is surpassed by preserving the right of citizens to choose their representatives even in the Senate. Senator Calderoli, I often speak to you today, but I think it can be done. She's talking about lentils. SANTANGELO (M5S). You can't say lentils! CHITI (PD). He said that this morning. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, don't interrupt the surgery. I didn't say that. SANTANGELO (M5S). You can't say lentils, you have to say legumes! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, don't interrupt the surgery. I'll call you back to order. CHITI (PD). This morning he said "Lentils dish" and he can check the shorthand report. Not in private - because private talks are a personal matter, which I have never brought up and never will, because different positions and evaluations are legitimate - but in seminars organized in a public way, he had proposed a solution, which saw the mayors elected by the regional councils, and the regional councillors elected in the Senate, exactly as we do. We would like to do something more and we would also like senators to be indicated in another way. At least from this point of view, I think that they are not lentils, but something positive, of which we can assume, with dignity, responsibility. I am not going back because I want to conclude that, in addition to this aspect, there are important elements in the reform, which concern the competences and functions of the Senate, in relation to relations with the European Union, with the system of the Regions and the autonomy, in monitoring public policies, and the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court and then there is also the question of the President of the Republic. The internal confrontation of the Democratic Party is legitimate. It's a duty for us, but do you really think that a majority of government and a country will move forward if the largest party, besides confronting each other, doesn't find moments of unity? You can see it here, in this debate: do you think that if the Democratic Party, instead of being united, was divided and torn, anything better would come for our country? I'm not saying to us, but to our country and Italy in Europe. We feel a responsibility towards the political system, but we cannot pass on the conclusions we have reached, of which President Finocchiaro rightly said proud of the unity that has been found, as an imposition on the majority. Here too the texts speak. A year ago, I was critical with members of the New Right Center and, in part, in another phase, also of the Autonomous and Popular Action, therefore towards representatives of the majority of the Government, because they had self-limited themselves, with respect to the convictions on which we are united today and which had also been them. So I do not know where the force is: I think there is a majority here that really agreed. [[Applause from Senator Di Biagio.]] I believe that this is a positive fact: more positive would have been a more open confrontation with others, but I have already said that. I should like to conclude with one consideration: those who did not vote for the reform last year, as I did, can tell us legitimately that what we have done and the progress we consider to be fundamental are actually insufficient: you can say that it has a basis of legitimacy. I don't think so, but you can say that. Of course, as I said before, it should make sure, if progress is insufficient, to push on the accelerator and not on the brake, or once on the brake and another on the accelerator, because this derails the trains and also the machines. The less I understand how many voted in favour last year. You, Senator D'Ali, did not vote in favour, but you are in a political group, that of Forza Italia. Today, even in a slightly exaggerated way, you wanted to punish my colleague Lo Moro and then, in these days, you sanctioned everyone a little. He did not explain, however, that Senators Malan and Gasparri can explain, why a year ago you voted for the reform and today you will not vote for it? [[Applause from the PD and AL-A groups]] Will you explain, please? Explain this to us in an explanation of vote. Where are the steps back? Senator Malan says that the role of citizens is uncertain, but you, in the text voted at first reading, did not foresee it. You voted on the text when this role was not there and now you criticize it because it is there, but it is not enough and therefore, since it was not there at all before, you prefer that it does not know at all. But what political logic is this? What about the rule on the election of the President of the Republic? You accepted an approach. Let's be clear, I would have hoped that the election of the President of the Republic would have had a broad enlargement of the audience and a closing rule: in this I think I am very close to Senator Quagliariello. In any case, today there is a rule on the election of the President of the Republic, which gives binding space to the fact that those who win the election do not do what they want. But you, last year, agreed that the President of the Republic could be elected by 366 votes, considering that he wins the election, in the House he may have 370 votes. So, you want to explain to us, besides giving us lessons, what is your political logic? What has changed and why do you not vote today? [[Comments of Senator Rizzotti.]] For what, why was there a President of the elected Republic differently? But this is not about the President of the Republic, it is about the merit of the Constitution. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] So, here's the thing. In conclusion, serious progress has been made on fundamental issues, we are convinced and we take responsibility for it, which will not only be voting as PD for this article, which contains this important amendment, as I have tried to explain, but also as regards the draft reform law. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups) and Mixed groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u255	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u256	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u257	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I will speak briefly, because I am like the last Japanese left on the island and I will stay there until the end: I will vote against, however, that someone who has come to morale I will reply on Tuesday. We must always be careful to be too familiar with text messages, because then maybe someone keeps them away and Tuesday reads them in the Chamber. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group.]] MATTESINI (PD). What a fineness, he is a gentleman indeed!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u258	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 39, corresponding to Article 38 of the text approved by the Senate, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u259	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u260	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u261	AUGELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I just wanted to say one thing about the vote: I'm sorry, I was wrong to vote earlier, so my vote was in favour. Because sometimes I vote in dissent motivatedly, I wanted to say that this time I was just wrong. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of your correct vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u262	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u263	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u264	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, I simply wanted to make a point of order, because I noticed that a few days ago, when Senator Gasparri spoke about the sale of senators or votes, nobody reacted and nobody said anything. When Senator Fattori spoke, she didn't speak and seemed to be at the Sant'Elia Stadium in the south corner, when Gigi Riva snapped. He should call back, not the one who speaks, for what he says, but the one who doesn't make him speak. [[Applause from the M5S Group).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u265	I call both those who speak and those who do not make him speak, so, from this point of view, I do not think I do any discrimination. In any case, after recent events, which have been the subject of an evaluation by the Presidency Council [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] , we have given ourselves a certain way of acting from the point of view of self-control that we must maintain. Amendment 34.0.600 is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 40, which corresponds to Article 39 of the text approved by the Senate, on which amendments have been tabled, which have already been tabled. The list of inadmissible amendments has already been distributed. I call on the Government representative to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u266	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u267	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 40.1c. SOLLO (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u268	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u269	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u270	BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Mr President, of course we will be voting in favour of this deleterious amendment to the article, but before we discuss this vote I would like to respond to the previous speech. You see Senator Chiti, comrade to comrade... [[Brusio.]] VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. But what partner? BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Sorry, as a comrade to comrade, I agree with you, but really, when you say that you must remain in the political dialectic and that the confrontation must be political. I do not think anyone in this House can say that from these benches - because we can answer for these benches and for these chairs - the opposite has been done, because education for us has always been the first place and our speeches have always been on the subject. We are talking about the Constitution and, as I always say, because we are talking about something fundamental, the topics we are dealing with are so delicate that there should be real seriousness in dealing with them. And that's what someone who can't get into it says, because I'm a person who doesn't have the skills to do it, but I assure you, Senator Chiti, that I'm one who's been through the last choices of the government and so maybe I understand them better. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I understand when the areas of democracy are reduced and when citizens are not given freedom, because I hear so much about democracy in this House, but I have never heard of participatory democracy, of which you should also be a supporter because these should be our principles, since, I remember, we did the election campaign together. When we talk about these issues, as always, we must not only remember the aspect of that moment, but look at 360 degrees and I am sorry that you too, a person I really value, do not. We have always been a plural component, always. The problem is that we remember where we came from, while perhaps you, allow me to say it, have forgotten it. In fact, when we talk about the Constitution, we also talk about what was approved in this House by the votes of a strange majority, let us say so. For the workers, with the jobs act, five or six more articles of the Constitution have practically been deleted in the absolute silence of the Democratic Party, which has a political responsibility and I want to talk about this. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] When we talk about the Constitution we have to talk about it at 360 degrees and I don't want to make it long, because I always want to stay on the subject. On the part of the majority I have heard few wise statements in this House, I am sorry to say that, because the Government has the usual phrase: an opinion against all the amendments. It's been two and a half years that I've been here in the Senate and I challenge anyone, Senator of Opposition as a majority, to say if you've ever really considered that you could change things in here. We, at least I (and I talk to so many of the majority) never had the feeling that we could really change things in the Commissions. I challenge anyone to say otherwise! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Since the beginning of this parliamentary term it has always been so and I challenge everyone, I repeat, to the contrary. I shall end with that because it is really too serious a subject. A wise thing was said by Senator President Finocchiaro, when he said that there are no Calamandrei, Togliatti, Moro, De Gasperi or Di Vittorio in here. It's true. But perhaps, President Finocchiaro, you should repeat it, because in your majority I do not think they have understood it. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Bocchino, Campanella and Casaletto.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u271	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u272	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u273	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, Rule 40 concludes the first overall part of the debate and the vote on this passage of constitutional reform, for which I really said little or nothing, if not in general discussion, because I had said so much last year, when I was the leader of the 5 Star Movement. This is the only point on which I agree with Senator Chiti: I said little or nothing because I really think little or nothing has changed since last year. What I would like to reiterate, however, is that the political point of view which supported this project has changed here, and it is the political point of view that will then, rightly, lead everyone to assume their responsibilities at the time when we are going to go into the phase of referendum approval. You see, Mr President, you see, ladies and gentlemen, once in this House there was a well-defined iconography; an iconography that also established some of the elements of our political vocabulary: the right and the left, and they were the parties that opposed themselves not only ideologically, but also in values, intentions, projects, programmes. Well, in this constitutional passage, this House has seen the right and left uniform since the extreme right of this House was occupied by the AL-A Group of Senator Verdini, who votes all the articles of this constitutional reform. Of the two: either the voters will have a good chance of confronting this variation, and then they will make sense of what happened in this passage, or we of the 5 Star Movement are right to say that there are no longer a right and a left in this Parliament and in the country. And on this too the voters will speak and say whether this reform voted by an extreme right of the House, together with the so-called left (or center-left) of the country, is worthy of having the consent of the popular will in the referendum. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I believe that this is enough to certify the change from one year to the present, and I believe that this is enough to show that, beyond what has happened in this House, it is not important that there have been even strong clashes. It is important that what some senators have said, and for which they have received a consensus certified by the quantity and sound of the applause, remains in this House: the words of some highly honored senators will remain in this House; the country is very much more important. The country will certify what will then have to be the final consensus on this process of constitutional counter-reform. What is important to me is that we now go further; everyone will assume their responsibilities. We assume the responsibility of declaring ourselves opposed, once again, to a project that recalls the darkest stages of this unfortunate Republic. [[Applause from the M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u274	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 40.1c, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 40.2c, tabled by Senator Calderoli, until the words "of his own" on page 1 of the dossier in electronic format. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 40.2c and Amendment 40.600 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 40.3c, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 40.4c, tabled by Senator Calderoli, on page 1 of the dossier in electronic format. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 40.5c, tabled by Senator Calderoli, on page 1 of the dossier in electronic format. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 40.601, tabled by Senator D'Alì and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 40,200 and 40,201 are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 40.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u275	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u276	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u277	CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). Mr President, I believe that at this point, taking advantage of the opportunity offered by the explanation of vote on Article 40, there is the need to "put a few dots on the I's," as we use to say. I have listened carefully to Mr Chiti's speech, with whose conclusions I do not agree, and this is well known. I think that the Democratic Party and this majority will have serious difficulties in explaining this reform to the citizens even in view - and it is said without any controversy - that more balanced reforms than this the PD has always fiercely opposed them. Among other things, although I do not have the polemic of my colleague Fattori, I listened carefully and I could not help but agree with the section of union that you wanted to point out between this reform and the one vagued by the Masonic Lodge P2, which basically demanded greater freedom of the Executive from parliamentary controls which, both for the P2 and for Berlusconi (which was registered at P2), were overly pregnant of the Government. You wanted a freer government. If this reform were to come into force, that would be true, but it would be so much to make people like me and like the left, Mr Petrocelli, think that the centre of power should be Parliament, a balanced presidential government, with mutual control of powers. [[The microphone automatically switches off]] to this kind of reform that will be approved. Having said that, I would like to make one final point. There is a left in this Parliament, which is not the Democratic Party, and that seems to me to be very clear. The Democratic Party is connoting itself, provision after provision, as a center or center-right party. This must be clear and it is clear to me, as is the fact that there is a difference between a right-wing policy and a left-wing policy. It is a policy of workers' rights on the left, of those who have less and less opportunity to defend themselves than the arrogance and arrogance of those who can and can influence political power. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there is a right and a left. The fact that people before the left have made right-wing policies is frankly difficult to understand to me too, but in terms of political ideas and objectives and concrete actions, because this only creates confusion that is not for the benefit of those who have less, but of those who benefit from this confusion, as is happening in recent weeks in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u278	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u279	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u280	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, the day has been a little longer than expected, not because of us, but mainly because of the government. We could also have voted in favour of Article 40 because it was a part of the reform that could perhaps have found the consensus of all, a pity that in the transition to the House there was a change that made the abolition of the CNEL null and void. In fact, where in the text of the Senate it was written "nomina" with its own decree an extraordinary commissioner to which is entrusted the provisional management of the CNEL for the liquidation of its assets and for the reassignment of human and instrumental resources" in the text of the Chamber the diction "for the liquidation" is disappeared and it is read "whose is entrusted the provisional management of the CNEL, for the activities related to the assets". So, what do we expect, President Grasso? In ten or fifteen years I already know what will happen: maybe there will be other people: our children, grandchildren or friends. You'll always be there, of course, and I'm talking about our Five Star Movement. You will be there, either in the Commission or during the debate on a law of stability, to find yourself reassigning, after fifteen years, the funds for the maintenance of the payment of the salary of the Commissioner for the liquidation of the CNEL. Similarly, a few months ago, as you will recall, we still had the commissioners who cleared some useless bodies. Was this the famous spending review of the cutting of useless bodies? We cut them down, as a name, but it remains the Commissioner, who is no longer even a liquidator, but is a commissioner for interim management. Remember what you are approving today: a commissioner who does not liquidate; a Commissioner for the provisional management of CNEL's provisional assets. What has the CNEL done in this last year to get you to eliminate the word "liquidation"? Who do you have in mind as CNEL commissioner? I wouldn't want the place for Marino to be ready to stop him from saying any names too much! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That concludes, and that is why we shall vote against this article.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u281	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 40, corresponding to Article 39 of the text approved by the Senate. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 40.0.200 is inadmissible. Having not been tabled on Article 41, corresponding to Article 40 of the text approved by the Senate, other amendments other than the deletion 41.1c, already explained, we proceed to the vote on the retention of the same article. Once that vote has been taken, I would ask you to wait for the Presidency's communications.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u282	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u283	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u284	CRIMI (M5S). After the vote on Rule 41, I too will have to make requests, in accordance with certain Rules of Procedure, to the Presidency and to the House. Since there may be requests for a vote, I wanted to announce it in order to avoid a rapid removal of the senators from the Chamber. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crimes, voting requests, as you know, must be communicated to the Presidency in advance. CRIMI (M5S). I said there might be demands.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u285	I understand that he wants to keep his suspense, but the bon ton generally sends these requests to the Presidency first.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u286	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u287	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u288	SOLLO (PD). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u289	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the maintenance of Article 41, corresponding to Article 40 of the text approved by the Senate. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u290	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u291	Senator Crimes, I need to make some communications. What are you going to do about it? Is it something that can change my decisions? CRIMI (M5S). I would like to make my request to you and, on the basis of this, you will assess it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. CRIMI (M5S). I intervene pursuant to article 103, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure: "Before the final vote of a bill, the President, the representative of the Government or each Senator may draw the attention of the Senate to the corrections of form and the changes of coordination that appear appropriate, as well as to those provisions already approved that seem in conflict with each other or irreconcilable with the purpose of the law, and formulate the consequent proposals". As the term 'calling' also indicates an oral procedure, I would like to explain my proposals for coordination, in order to enable the Commission and the Presidency to evaluate them in accordance with paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 of the same Article. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Thank you, Senator, but the coordination proposals are being examined before the final vote, after the explanations of vote: we are not at that stage yet. CRIMI (M5S). Yes, Mr President, before the final vote, but it is not written as soon as possible. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There are usually explanations of vote earlier. If you give us your proposals in writing, we will make them public. CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, let me explain to you: there are four requests.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u292	[[Protests from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u293	You can do it in writing. This isn't the stage.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u294	CRIMI (M5S). Why isn't that, Mr. President? Before the final vote on a draft law is taken, it does not say how long before. Mr Russo (PD). But we're not voting! [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u295	Quiet. Before the final vote, after the explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u296	CRIMI (M5S). In fact, before the final vote is taken.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u297	Even during the examination of Article 1 we were at a stage prior to the final vote; it is not that we discuss the proposals for coordination before examining the whole bill. Explanations of vote will be made first. If you are kind enough to give us your proposals for coordination, you will certainly explain them after the explanations of vote and before the final vote. That is the practice. If you send them, we can also evaluate and transmit them to the Government; in this way we speed up the procedures, make a full evaluation and we also thank you for the cooperation for the coordination phase. Having said that, after acquiring the recordings, as requested by Senator Zanda, I call the Presidency Council on Monday, 12 October, at 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u298	The Assembly shall be convened on Tuesday at 11 a.m. for communications on the decisions of the Presidency Council. Then, at 3 p.m., there will be explanations of vote and the final vote broadcast live on television, requested by various groups. At the end of the sitting, there will be the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u299	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u300	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u301	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I should like to thank President Zanda for calling the Presidency Council. I hope you take action against the PD Group. To make this clear, I would like to ask you, before Tuesday, whether this reform has already upset Article 68 of the Constitution. Is it still in force? I would like to know, in fact, if on Tuesday we have at least the opportunity to express ourselves with a political evaluation, even a heavy one, on a party, composed, yes, by parliamentarians, but which uses, as in Rome, fig leaves, and which is linked to the 'ndrangheta, to the capital Mafia, to the mafia, and to the delinquents. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You must assure me that on Tuesday Article 68 of the Constitution, which a band of sales has not yet changed, is still in force. [[Protests]] One more thing about the order of business. What's scheduled for 3:00? PRESIDENT. - The debate is At 3 p.m. there will be explanations of vote on live television. Following the proposals for coordination, then the final vote. CASTALDI (M5S). There are really important issues in the work of tomorrow's day and the next few days: there is, for example, the framework law on the international mission. It is not that we parliamentarians can know from the newspapers - because we know newspapers and television to who they are - whether our military is doing a reconnaissance or is doing a war action. Since the measure is ready, we can talk about it tomorrow. We can also talk about something very important for the majority, to solve the problem of immigration: the draft law n. 1878, which establishes the National Day in memory of the victims of immigration, what you need to wash your conscience about immigrants. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We can, for example, President, tomorrow and Monday agree to the request of Senator Marinello, since the environmental link is also ready, on which there are already opinions. We can also give a certainty to those who have been waiting for rights from a fake left for years and incardinating civil unions tomorrow. What do you think? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I therefore expect you to know how to use the days of Saturday, Monday and Tuesday morning, since you are so keen to show on television how you destroyed the Italian Constitution. I would therefore ask you to call a conference of group leaders immediately, as you allowed Senator Zanda to do last week.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u302	I have already decided that the Conference of Leaders will be convened after the final vote on Senate reform. The sitting on Saturdays and Mondays is offended and I have already said that the Presidency Council is being convened on Mondays. On Tuesday 13 October, at 11 a.m., there will be communications on the outcome of the Presidency Council. On the agenda, then, is the follow-up to the constitutional bill. At 3 p.m. there will be explanations of vote on live television. I therefore refer the continuation of the discussion of the constitutional bill No. 1429-B to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u303	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u304	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u305	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Mr President, I did not ask to speak at the end of the sitting, but I was asking if the Senate House could remember today the tragedy of Vajont, which saw 1,910 dead. That was my request, but I cannot remember it in an empty Chamber: I was hoping that you would do so in one minute before closing the sitting. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u306	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u307	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u308	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, my speech concerns the same subject. I would like to make my speech, so if you would kindly respond to my request and add your words, let there be a moment of mourning. [[Applause from Senator Bottici.]] Let us remember that today is 9 October 2015, National Day in memory of the victims of environmental and industrial disasters. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to respect a little silence, and perhaps also your willingness to say a word to those who are still suffering from this event at the moment. 18.02 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u309	That is precisely why I would ask my fellow Members to stay here for a moment and then to be able to participate with the necessary silence at this moment of mourning which Senators Bellot and Bulgarelli rightly request.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u310	Yes, Madam President, in order to avoid what was happening, I asked the President this morning to be prepared to allow me to take this speech at the opening of the sitting, which seemed to me perhaps the most appropriate moment when we could all share this National Day in memory of the victims of environmental and industrial disasters. On October 9, 1963 in my Province of Belluno, along the Vajont valley, everyone knows the tragedy that unfortunately involved the territory and that saw the death of almost 2,000 citizens. A devastated land, lost generations, unfortunately swallowed by water and mud. A memory still alive, like the pain that accompanies him today. In fact today in the monumental cemetery of the victims of the Vajont, during the civil commemoration, crowns were laid, in the strict silence of that place to the memory, that everyone - and I repeat all - should cross, to understand the suffering that still tears the hearts of the people. Today my thoughts ran there, many times, to join the prayers that accompanied the sacred ceremony, the solemn mass by suffrage of the victims. I would then like to make a request to you, Madam President, and to President Grasso - who unfortunately left the Chamber - who, on the occasion of the 50th anniversary, came to those places and visited them. Together with him, President Renzi last year also visited those places, the places of memory, thus recognizing Longarone and that devastation a tribute that should certainly be honoured first of all through the memory of this House - as was requested by his colleague - but certainly also through concrete acts. In order to honour these victims, it is necessary to recognize to the Municipality of Longarone that contribution and that concrete and due help that I have asked several times in the examination of the law of stability and other measures and that it has now been granted once, but in reality only for an annual concession. On the other hand, I asked, also through a bill, for a concrete contribution to honour those victims, aimed at maintaining the monumental cemetery, which to date only through the work of volunteers and the sacrifices and the efforts of the municipality is kept open and is maintained (and is thus allowed to all to visit it), with the respect that is owed to those victims. We must remember that the Vajont is unfortunately the greatest tragedy we have had in our territory since the war. I therefore believe that it is right and proper for this Government to respond in concrete terms. I hope that there will be a willingness to share this response both on the part of Parliament and my colleagues and on the part of the Government, in order to ensure - I appeal to you - that this bill becomes a concrete response for those victims, for those young people, for those young people and for all those who in Vajont have lost their lives and affections and who still suffer today. So that no one can forget, because we never forget that tragedy, I ask this House to observe a minute of silence, in memory of a tragic event due to greed, not respect for the territory, not respect for the people and mere interest, which brought wealth to those who unfortunately devastated a territory and swept away an entire generation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u311	Senator Bellot, as you surely remember, last year we held a solemn ceremony in memory of the victims of the Vajont, on the occasion of the 50th anniversary. The Presidency is deeply involved in his expressions of condolence and in the memory of the victims. I believe that this initiative must be carried out as soon as possible, in order to protect and protect the cemetery, which I have had the opportunity to visit and which is very touching indeed. I believe that those who have experienced this tragedy and have left their lives deserve not to be forgotten. I therefore call on the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The President stands up and with you the whole House, who observes a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u312	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u313	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u314	WOMAN (M5S). Madam President, a meeting was held at 11 a.m. today at the MISE. This meeting was attended by some political forces, represented by representatives of the Regions and therefore by the Councillor for economic development Loredana Capone. Unfortunately, however, workers could not participate in this meeting, an integral and essential part of the dispute of the former BAT (British American Tobacco). So this meeting was held this morning, but it was yet another farce meeting. Why? In this report, the result of the meeting, we read that the city council member Capone has reaffirmed the maximum commitment of the Region Puglia to structure a search for entrepreneurs. We are talking about a dispute that has lasted since 2010. Has the city council member reiterated his willingness? It's not enough, we want more, the workers want more. The city council member has reiterated the commitment of the Region Puglia to structure a search for entrepreneurs, but it is for a lifetime that in addition to having to structure it, it would have been necessary to make a search really in depth and find investors that could detect the structure and, above all, those companies that have signed an agreement that, both in the immediate and in the time, has turned out scam, so much it is true that still today the workers are in fund integration (that however will expire soon). The report states that workers who have received adequate training are to be taken up again. Are we still kidding? The training courses were intended only for some workers and were done years ago, with the result that the workers now no longer have the professionalism for which they were employed in companies and are outside the labour market. Don't make fun of us! Don't tease the workers with these fictitious agreements and reports they don't carry anywhere. Workers need to work and that is what they are asking for. The 5 Star Movement also asks this through a petition to which we are ready to remove the logo of our movement if other parliamentarians and regional representatives were ready to sign it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We want workers to be put back to work, because it is their right and because it is what they and their families want. The worst thing is that in the meantime all these agreements, technical tables and incursions have revealed that the British American Tobacco (BAT) has made a donation to the Open Foundation and the workers have said that if BAT has had its advantage in making the payment, they too, humble workers, want their profit since they have donated the amount of 20 euros each. They therefore ask to have the job back. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That's where we got to Italy. I will conclude by appealing once again to the political forces. The 5 Star Movement continues to give voice to the workers. If you really have the sense of courage and honor, prove it not only by signing the petition, but also by making sure that these workers resume working otherwise you will come to an incitement to the revolt. Let's get this over with. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u315	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u316	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u317	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, today we read in an interesting article by Tomaso Montanari that tourists last Thursday stayed outside of Villa della Regina and its park. We are talking about a baroque monument of great value and a site, located in Turin, protected by UNESCO. According to what was written in the sign that gave the news, the inside of the structure hosted the young managers of the UniQuest training program of UniCredit. This is not the only case of this kind as Montanari reports others. Among these, I report, due to geographical relevance, that of a few months ago, when the Central National Library of Florence was closed due to a fashion show, which the students followed from outside with signs with which they asked to be able to study. Today I searched in the press review (I did a job as a Carthusian) some statement by Renzi and Franceschini who deplored the fact that poor tourists had remained outside of Villa della Regina; I also went to look for some statement by Marino because he too, mayor of Rome, had been researched on the Colosseum case but, evidently, in these days has something else to think about. I have not even seen, then, or heard neither Renzi, nor Franceschini rejoice that they had issued the decree-law by which they want to sanction that from now on the use of artistic heritage will be assimilated to an essential public service (decree-law that is under consideration in the Chamber of Deputies at this time). The question arises legitimate, because our code of cultural and landscape heritage provides that cultural sites can be used by private individuals for events that have a purpose but are animated by cultural vocation. The legitimate question is: is it not that money will lead to derogations in view of the use of artistic heritage as an essential public service? Because if that were the case, as Montanari himself rightly points out, it would be a very serious cultural error. We hope, then, that since this decree-law - as I have said - is under consideration in the Chamber of Deputies who is examining it, this question will arise and find a worthy solution that could be, as Montanari himself rightly suggests, to host these events during the closing hours of these sites. Here. This is our message of hope: we hope that the Members of the House will resolve this issue, that this dangerous precedent will not be created and that we will not always continue to favour the private sector and forget the rights of workers. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u318	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u319	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u320	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Madam President, as is well known, the Florence Public Prosecutor, following a joint operation between the road police of Tuscany and the Forestry Corps, within the Gold Roads investigation, has registered 24 people in the register of suspects and the arrest of an entrepreneur and three managers of ANAS Tuscany, the company that manages the road network. I refer, in particular, to the involvement of the ANAS summits of Tuscany within a dense network of exchanges of favors that reaches to the contracts for road works considered urgent, especially as a result of the damage caused by natural disasters that have hit Tuscany in the past months. As can be seen from the first data of the above investigation, the corruption system in question in most cases concerned the award of contracts awarded on the basis of the state of emergency and necessity through bribes corresponding to 5% of the amount of work related to the major works. The illegal management of contracts is then defined by the Florence Public Prosecutor as a well-tested system of corruption. Indeed, it refers to a complex corruptive system involving public managers, contracting companies, entrepreneurs and, unfortunately, politicians too. Although the constitution of the anti-corruption authority is to be positively assessed and naturally asked to start a wide spectrum monitoring of contracts in Tuscany, it is necessary to counter from every possible direction phenomena such as corruption and, more generally, the evil that in Italy are so widespread that it seems rooted in our culture. It is therefore necessary to devise new measures which can, however, be decisive in the present phenomenon, with particular reference to the procurement and public works sector. Consequently, it would be appropriate to promote amendments to the Procurement Code aimed at strengthening the repressive and sanctioning aspects, as well as the application of confiscation of property to the corrupt and the corrupt, at the same time with the immediate suspension of public officials following referral to court. And again, just think of the very important role of the interceptions, an instrument that the prosecutor himself of the investigation, who is in charge here, Dr. Giuseppe Creazzo, considers indispensable for the identification of crimes, such as the crime of corruption or those of the mafia and therefore not to be depowered in any way. In these days there has been a lot of talk in the House about interceptions: perhaps we think of a weakening or in any case to gag this possibility, so I renew the need that instead, in order to combat these phenomena of corruption and illegality, we do not put hand to interceptions, but we continue to give freedom and the possibility of using this type of instrument to those who make investigations. [[Applause from Senator Romani Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u321	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-521.ana.u322	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, at 11 a.m. on the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.20 a.m.
