ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 30 April.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00378 by Senator Uras and other senators, 1-00401 by Senator Floris and other senators, 1-00408 by Senator Council and other senators, and 1-00412 by Senator Lai and other senators, on initiatives against the social and economic crisis in Sardinia. I call Senator Uras to explain motion 378.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u9	Madam President, this is not the first time that in the parliamentary classrooms the condition of the economic and social crisis of Sardinia is being addressed, a condition that has been recognized in different periods of our country's history, beginning with the one immediately following the last world war, with the recognition of special autonomy and the approval of constitutional law No. 3, which contains the rules of the special Statute of autonomy of the Sardinian Region. This recognition derives from elements of an absolutely objective nature, however indisputable, first of all the insularity, as well as the peculiarity from the cultural, linguistic and ethnic point of view of the population of the Sardinian community, which recalls particular and different needs compared to other realities, although crossed by conditions of difficulty and discomfort, present in our peninsula and in the continental European context. The economic and social crisis in Sardinia at this stage is even more acute and serious and in recent years has experienced a very particular progressive deterioration, perhaps one of the highest in the national and European context. It would suffice to say that compared to 2013 the decrease in GDP is 4.4%, with a total loss in the years of crisis, from 2007 onwards, of more than thirteen points of gross domestic product; that the birth rate is two percentage points lower than the mortality rate; that the migration balance is negative (which is also very different from other regions of the country); that employment has decreased by 7.3 per cent in the two-year period 2012-2013 and has suffered another serious decline in the last year; that the unemployment rate reaches 20% and that young people seeking work exceed 54 per cent. In this area there are some realities of the island that pay an even greater price to the crisis. I speak, for example, of Sulcis-Iglesiente, of the Carbonia-Iglesias province, of particular central areas of the Region, such as that of Ottana, of situations of absolute difficulty such as that of the industrial area Sassari-Alghero-Porto Torres. I am referring to even heavier situations that have also arisen on the coast, particularly in the island of La Maddalena and in the Maddalenian archipelago as a whole, which pay the price of overcoming a war economy, made up of the presence of important military stations, towards an economy of peace that has never been realized; indeed, La Maddalena has paid the price of corruption. It is worth reminding everyone of the events of the G8, the ongoing criminal proceedings, the abandonment of the former arsenal and the lack of reclamation of the marine areas in front of it, despite the financial allocations also transferred to the Region. It is worth reminding everyone, that is, the inability demonstrated by the institutions - by the State in particular - to guarantee Sardinia and that part of the island the right refreshment for the change of economy and public function that was attributed to it. In Sardinia there are very special situations and the burdens we bear, not only according to national objectives... [[Brusio.]] I am sorry, Madam President, but I would ask my colleagues whether it is possible to reduce the bustle.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u10	Please lower your voice, colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u11	URAS (Misto-SEL). I am referring in particular to military servitudes: it cannot escape anyone who is subject to constraint about 35,000 hectares of territory, but it is much more the marine spaces engaged in military exercise activities. The island hosts structures and service infrastructures to the Italian and NATO Armed Forces, missile polygons (such as Perdasdefogu), for air drills (such as Capo Frasca), for fire drills (such as Capo Teulada), military airports, weapons depots and ammunition. The regional territory and large portions of marine spaces are engaged for several periods per year in particularly risky exercise activities. These issues had to and should be dealt with in a specific table between State and Region: we do not understand why at the end of the conference on military servitudes the only Region that had to rise in order not to have agreed with the State any solution of compensation, reduction and overcoming this particular condition was Sardinia, that is the Region that is most burdened by the presence and activities of military exercise. Moreover, it must be added, precisely with reference to the story of Salto di Quirra, which unfortunately, in the territorial area of military polygons, Sardinia has been used as a real landfill. An investigation by the judiciary has been initiated and developed on those events, which unfortunately has discovered heavy responsibilities for various authorities in the State. In short, the conditions of Sardinia are difficult, from the economic and social point of view, but also because it pays a very important tribute to the needs of the State, beginning with those of defence. These efforts and commitments on the part of the island community must be considered in the way they deserve. Its insularity makes it very difficult to overcome the current crisis: the system of connections between the region and the continent is reduced to a minimum. Territorial continuity cannot be thought of as a sort of exclusive problem of those who suffer the objective condition of isolation. It is a total load for which the country must be held responsible overall, because the condition of isolation of that piece of community - of the Sardinian Region and its smaller islands - must be exceeded in accordance with the constitutional norms that guarantee the equal rights of all Italian citizens. It is a condition that must be overcome in a dialogue with the European Union, which recognises these differences: Sardinia is an island in the very sense of the term. It is an island in the center of the Mediterranean that pays very high prices, from the economic and social point of view, for its condition of isolation. It pays them in the industrial development, in the keeping of its economic activities, in the development of agricultural activities, in the tourism development project; it pays them on all sides of economic activity; it pays them on the social level of rights. For this reason, and for the content of the long motion that we have presented, we ask the Government to take concrete action in order to overcome the conditions of difficulty in which the Sardinian Region is located. We also call for the Sardinian question to become a national issue, including through the establishment of a specific State-Region institutional working table, attended by representatives of the local authorities and the Sardinian social forces for the urgent examination of the complex of open disputes on the institutional, financial, economic-productive and social fronts of the island. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u12	I call Senator Floris to explain motion 401.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u13	Madam President, members of the Government, my fellow senators, I would have liked to focus my speech here today with the optimism and satisfaction typical of those who illustrate excellent results of recovery and positive data in economic and employment terms for Sardinia. I would also like to share with my colleagues the programmatic and strategic rebirth path of my island, applauding the contribution, albeit prudent, given the historical moment, that my land has made for the growth of GDP. I would like to describe Sardinia as a happy island and far from the problems that grip our country, and instead, still today, I find myself talking about Sardinia assimilating it to the Italian spectrum for the present criticalities and for the alarms never turned off. The numbers of the crisis are tangible and mark a GDP of less than 4.8% compared to the national, clear indicator of how the island economy can not start again if the national executive continues to utter words without any credibility due to lack of concrete facts. For the record, I remember the total inadequacy of resources destined for Sardinia by the Government. In this regard, the dispute about the state's revenue for which the island would have a claim against the State of several billion euros remains open, as repeatedly acknowledged by the Constitutional Court's judgments. But we return to the emergencies of Sardinia, whose emblem is represented by the poorest province of Italy: Sulcis. In November 2012 Government and Region signed the protocol of understanding with the municipalities concerned and the Province giving life to the Sulcis Plan. Almost three years later, although the first steps have been taken in the implementation of the plan, with tax benefits for small and medium-sized enterprises, the safeguarding of the productive fabric of those larger companies (it is worth remembering the negotiation between Glencore and Sernam, with the mediation of the Government), the remodulation of the infrastructural interventions and with the commitment of the council member of the public works to open the yards of reclamation, environmental recovery and infrastructural before the end of this year, the recovery path is still all up. Too many three years to take the first steps and the Sulcis trend continues to record negative economic data and disastrous employment emergencies. In the matter of delays on the interventions of the State, I can not fail to remember the disastrous natural disaster, the cyclone Cleopatra, that has hit my Region in November 2013; it has caused 19 deaths and caused disasters on housing and productive activities, infrastructures and roads still uncorruptable today, given the lack of resources for the necessary interventions of environmental and infrastructural restoration. After the disaster, former minister Maurizio Lupi promptly surveyed the destroyed areas and reassured the population of the government's commitment to solving road safety issues within a year, beginning with Olbia-Tempio. Promises, promises only. Colleagues, three years for the first steps of Sulcis, two years for the restoration of Cleopatra's damage and there are still no funds. As far as transport to and from the island is concerned, in this House we have dealt with the financial and employment crisis that Meridiana, the second national air carrier, has been going through for a long time. We note that in the last few days, just the day before yesterday, steps have been taken to resolve the problem of the Cassa Integrazione of the workers of the company through the agreement of the Ministry of the economic development with Region and unions, that it will guarantee still 12 months of breath for these people. However, the wind is short for the safeguard of the jobs for which a structural and sustainable solution has not been proposed in the long term, helping to put in difficulty the local productive sectors for the lack of adequate logistic services and mobility systems suitable for the displacement of people and goods. In the island black list energy tariffs also end without discounts: against an increase in regional production - which is a surplus compared to consumption - no tariff reductions have been paid for companies and families. On the contrary, the cost of energy for Sardinian citizens and businesses exceeds 15 to 20% of the national average cost. All this for the lack of metanization in Sardinia despite the great projects of connection with Algeria, remained dead letter. Another topic in the motions is the military servitudes on the island: these represent more than 60% of those in the national territory, so I think they should be reduced. In the meantime, however, they can be transformed from a limit to the growth of Sardinia to development opportunities for the construction of research centres in the aerospace sector (Salto di Quirra), in the computerization of war systems and in vocational training with regard to Teulada. In this direction it is necessary to involve the research centers present on the island, the university institutes, CRS4 and the poles of excellence in order to characterize a positive presence of the military servitudes in the territory. On the Sardinian table, as you can unfortunately guess, there are many open issues and it is urgent to close the game on territorial emergencies. How long will we have to wait for the Government and Europe to recognise the disadvantages for Sardinia caused by insularity? Diseconomy resulting from being an island facing costs of production, energy, transport more than in other territories is often confused with state aid, which is recognised by Europe in other peripheral areas. The motions presented today have been shared, in substance and form, by other colleagues from different parties and movements: this is certainly a good sign of relaxation, a path that converges in common sense, an opportunity that cannot be wasted on the rebirth of Sardinia. Sardinia is not only the territory in which we Sardinians live, but a historical, natural and cultural heritage for the whole country. I would ask the Government not to make a general commitment, but to make a detailed statement on the points set out in the same motions also presented by my colleagues. Mine does not want to be a claim on what is missing and has been lacking in Sardinia, but a logical and lucid reflection on the unmistakable criticalities that prevent a normal process of development for the island. We Sardinians, ladies and gentlemen, are fighting and we want to continue to fight to be competitive, but in order to face a challenge in the world of globalisation we must start from the same starting point. How? With the resolution of infrastructure deficits, the disadvantage of insularity and updating the development models imposed by choices dropped from above, re-evaluating their national strategicity in the field of chemistry and its industrialization processes, aluminium and fuel refining, elements that if not supported at national level prevent the development of real and structural competitiveness in the global world. For these reasons, I appeal to you colleagues to express your positive vote on the motion; to the Government, as a proud man of my land, I ask a serious and convinced commitment to the opening of institutional tables between the State, the Region of Sardinia and the local socio-economic realities, to relaunch the development of the island through a new plan of rebirth of the island, the result of a serious and in-depth analysis of its needs and financial availability of the State, of the priorities of the interventions. Certain resources in certain times; what I ask is not a book of dreams with which to nourish hopes and illusions, but certainty about interventions. Only in this way can the relationship between citizens and institutions be restored. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u14	I call the Senator-Council to explain motion No 408.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u15	Madam President, who better than a Sardinian can photograph the economy, culture and difficulties of a territory? In fact, the two senators who preceded me did so with a certain transport, a certain intensity and a certain knowledge of the issues, but also the North League wanted to present its own motion that found the consent of the whole Group on a problem that is not only attributable to Sardinia, but that can be interpreted as the inability of the entire country to bring economy, growth, increase of GDP and decrease of the public debt. If the two senators that preceded me took a photograph of Sardinia and its problems, at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) someone photographed our country, which has been in fourth place for the unemployed for over a year (in 2013 the situation was worse only in Slovakia, Greece and Ireland); moreover, it turned out that the debt of the families has jumped to 94.2 percent of the disposable income, not to mention the savings that collapsed to 3.6 percent. Taxes are very heavy: in recent years the tax revenue has been about 950 billion dollars, against an average of the Western countries of 400 billion annually. This country is the fourth contributor to the European Union: in the period 2007-2013 Italy paid around 110 billion and received only 72 billion. Having said that, I will return to the Sardinian question, but the most interesting thing to say is that if there is no reversal of the trend, we will lose about 12 billion which lie unused and which will return to the European coffers. And this amount in absolute value represents twice the hole opened by pensions with the stop to the Fornero reform. So let's talk about Sardinia. If the national data are absolutely negative, those of Sardinia unfortunately beat them. The motion No 408, Madam President, deals with a crisis that now seems to be enchanted in the system of this beautiful island. The size of the crisis in this region is particularly serious: the data from the Svimez survey speak of a total loss, in the years of crisis since 2007, of more than 13 points of GDP; they speak of an unemployment rate of more than 19 percent and of a youth unemployment rate equal to or greater than 54 percent, much higher than the national average. Poor families have reached 24.8 percent. Here is the text of our motion. We have been concerned about the wave of industrialization, which has affected the whole country, but which has had dramatic implications especially on the Sardinian island, with dramatic consequences on the world of employment. We have also tried to understand in what terms Sardinia could be less penalized by the fact of being an island and the difficulty in the connections (I think of the great problems with Meridiana). In the last five years the Region has recorded a strong decrease of the occupational levels and the ISTAT data (it is therefore not the League to say) indicate that are approximately 43.000 people that have lost the job regarding the year precedence. In particular, the rate of youth unemployment is high, which appears to be linked to the intensification of early school leaving. Here too there is an issue linked to the closure of schools, which has put so many families in difficulty and has led to an increase in these abandonments and probably, as Senator Uras said, also to an immigration of young people to the Continent and to Europe. Then we also talk about tourism. We have talked very little about this in this short term of the legislature, which is now beginning to reach the half of its duration. Tourism should be the master of Sardinia, a tourism that was probably the pivot on which all the attention of local politics converge. I'm just sorry that some well thought-outs tried to ape what happened in America in 1990, where for three years all the rich in the country were taxed (and rightly, because they were probably the ones who had the chance). I say, however, that to the rich you do not do it: the rich have moved all the productive activities to other countries to put in difficulty those who worked in the induced. The same happened in Sardinia: all those who owned boats or yachts or had activities of a certain type, moved to Corsica or Croatia. This has put the tourism sector and the local marinas in great difficulty. In that sector, where it is estimated that for every four boats there is a job, there has been a death toll of very serious employees. We were talking about transport before. Sardinia is an island and, if it has started from a few days Expo 2015 and we are already talking about an extraordinary Jubilee, the idea was to put in condition the island to see the strengthening of its airport ports, that they act as a pivot for a single system and that it puts in condition Sardinia to be able to interact with the whole of Europe. Then we wondered why a very energetic industry like that of aluminium had found its own home in Sardinia, where energy costs 20% more than that in the Continent and which has a huge weight compared to what is the cost in the whole country and in other European countries. This increased cost, therefore, means that industries are unappetising and unprofitable. The economic crisis in Sardinia is also linked to the fact that there is no metanization, which puts the Region in great difficulty. We ask, with this motion, that the Government undertake to take the necessary initiatives for the relaunch of productive activities in the Sardinian territory and, more generally, in the industrial system of the country. We are convinced, in fact, that, if in small everyone does a good thing, many good things make this country a good country. There is also to talk about measures to reduce the cost of energy: I believe that this country must have an energy and industrial plan, which in recent years has been really implied and we have not had the ability to create something positive. Another commitment that we ask the Government is to promote, through the instrument of the program agreement, the adoption of specific paths for the industrial conversion of the disused areas, in order to favor the birth of new industrial activities in the Sardinian territory and in general throughout the country. I believe that the Sardinian problem is due to the Italy problem. I am sorry to continue to talk about recovery, which probably does not correspond to reality. I don't know if it's because this jobs act in Sardinia you didn't understand, but, if I already have some doubt that it does well here in Italy, I think that there even found no kind of application. There is also talk of Sardinian language and culture (music for the ears of us leghisti). Sardinia has a speciality, with regard to its administrative management: this is an element that we do not want to eliminate at all, but we have been asking for a long time that other regions also have the possibility to use a different system, also from the fiscal point of view. If we want to solve the problems of Sardinia, then I think that tourism is one of the most interesting issues and we must also understand how to reduce the cost of energy and the tax wedge, which is impressive in this country. On this last aspect we have a proposal: a 15% flat tax throughout the country, which could also put the Sardinian economy in a position to be relaunched. As long as we speak of 0.1, 0.2 or 0.3 percent, as far as the reduction of the tax wedge is concerned, this country will have no chance of having a recovery and, consequently, Sardinia will not have it, already in difficulty both for its location within the Mediterranean and the consequent question of the transports is because of some local politician, who has well thought of squeezing lemons that no longer have even a drop of juice. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u16	I call Senator Cucca to explain motion No 412.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u17	Madam President, we are once again talking about the very serious situation in which Sardinia has been well caught since 2012, when the then President of the Republic of Giorgio Napolitano, on an institutional visit, had taken note of it personally and had recognized the speciality and gravity of the situation recognizing the need for extraordinary intervention by the Government. We have the awareness of living a moment of enormous difficulty throughout the country that, despite the presence of timid signs of recovery, still suffers two major emergencies: the social one, with the occupational collapse, and the productive one, with the progressive desertification of the industrial areas. Sardinia suffers in particular these emergencies, appearing increasingly poor, with levels of unemployment, especially youth, very alarming and a recession that pushes away the horizon of recovery, in spite of what is happening in the rest of the country. Sardinia manifests a much lower capacity for reaction than the other regions, especially because of its condition of insularity, which - as has already been said by colleagues who preceded me - creates a poor condition for the reduced connection with the rest of the country and, by now, of the entire European continent. It is also the cause of the enormous lack of internal infrastructures, material and immaterial, considered that it is the Region with the lowest level of infrastructures in all the categories, except that harbours (also for these last ones, however, it is decidedly under the average regarding the Regions with commercial and industrial ports). With regard to infrastructure deficiencies and the need for extraordinary interventions, I would point out that it is precisely these days the news that the province of Nuoro has arranged that on all provincial roads, considering the very serious conditions in which the provincial road network is located, the speed limit is 10 kilometers per hour. I say 10 kilometers per hour, in 2015; today, within the Province of Nuoro, you can travel only 10 kilometers per hour. This picture is also accentuated by the relations between the State and the Region. Over time these relationships have not always been ordered and corrected, sometimes due to shortcomings on the part of the regional administrations that have followed each other over time (this has to be said), the other for a forgetfulness of these problems by the central government. These reports must now be brought back to a single forum, in which to deal with the crisis conditions and structural deficiencies that exist, much more accentuated than the other regions. In that forum, which should be established, all those unresolved problems and emergencies that hinder or prevent the restart of Sardinia, starting from financial relations, on which there is still no shared point of view, should be addressed and addressed. The energy has already been discussed. Energy costs in Sardinia are extremely high. Unfortunately, there is news from yesterday, unofficial, that the essentiality of Ottana's power plant will be denied. If this does happen, of course there will be repercussions on the industrial system of the Ottana sector, about which my colleague, Mr Floris, Mr Uras and also my colleague from the League who preceded me have already spoken. Well, if the essentiality regime were to be denied, the entire Ottana sector will be forced to close, once again with adverse effects in terms of employment, because many jobs will be lost. In addition to the issue of energy, there is that of transport, the theme of internal and external territorial continuity, the overcoming of the infrastructure deficit, the dispute of revenue, that of military servitudes, the maintenance of the specialty in the renewed constitutional framework, the defence of linguistic and cultural peculiarities; they are all issues that have not been resolved so far. Transport is a problem that must be addressed by the Region of Sardinia, through a proper dialogue with the Central Government. One must not forget the case of the countervailable workers: 160 people who have received a letter of dismissal in recent days. They are all themes that have been on the table for years and that have been dragging unsolved for years. These are the reasons why we have tabled our motion. Also on the topic of the transports, the criticalities relative to the lack of road and railway infrastructures remain very high. I remind you that in Sardinia there are no State Railways. Today we still have Provinces where you travel with the narrow-gauge railway: in almost all the province of Nuoro you still travel with the narrow-gauge railroad, which I believe no longer exists in any other part of Italy, except in the trains for tourists. With regard to the system of material connections and maritime transport, we know the problem and the risks that run by focusing on the same subject the property of the largest private Italian shipping company. There is also a crisis that has been in all newspapers for a long time and about which in the last period we speak less (but it is still alive): the crisis of Meridiana, that it was the only carrier that had base in Sardinia and that guaranteed the competition with the other air carriers on the routes burdened with public service charges. Then there is the problem (which is dealt with in a very good and thorough way by the Senator Council, whom I thank) of the lack of a law that recognizes minority languages and, among them, the Sardinian language. This is a very serious problem. It had taken a step forward when in the public service contract with RAI, which was subsequently blocked, it was planned to recognize the Sardinian language for the purpose of a specific programming, for which the Sardinian Region had undertaken to make available important financial support, but also this has not found an outlet. Sardinia needs a modern and environmentally friendly industrial system; it also needs to stop confronting industrial systems in crisis, despite the fact that they are still strategic companies, which still exist, but unfortunately for years they have been experiencing a crisis that has not yet been resolved definitively. Then there is the problem of the Bonifiche. It has already been treated abundantly. I am talking about the reclamation of industrial sites of public companies that have left without putting their hands on the reclamations. The theme of La Maddalena has been discussed and so I remember the flood in Sardinia in 2013. The flood of 2013, for which there had been about 19 deaths, is the only one among the natural disasters that have occurred in Italy in the last three years whose damage has not been repaid, neither to companies, nor to families. Only that first intervention of 20 million was implemented for the immediate restoration of the road and then an intervention of 10 million euros for primary schools; all the rest has remained until today dead letter. Therefore, in this sense, the motion commits the Government to fulfill a series of requests that are made and that I do not think should be repeated. The Commission has recently shown a more correct or more "aware" focus, not just words. I believe that the commitments contained in the motion that we have tabled are absolutely to be submitted to the scrutiny of the Government, which I am sure will give your opinion in favour of this motion. I therefore ask that Members who, even with different forms and themes, have also supported it with their vote on the subject of the very serious situation in which Sardinia has been in for too long. As President Napolitano had said - I call him again in closing - Sardinia needs an extraordinary intervention because otherwise it will not come out of the swamp and, compared to the other Regions, will remain far behind in the growth and restart of the economic system. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u18	I would like to say that the G1 agenda has been presented, which has already been printed and distributed, which Senator Serra has asked to explain. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u19	Madam President, today we are talking about Sardinia, a land that in the imagination recalls thoughts of the sea and unspoilt coasts. In fact, Sardinia is the Italian Region that has a large part of its territory occupied by petrochemical industries such as Saras, which is the largest petrochemical pole in the Mediterranean, and by military poles such as those of Quirra, Teulada, Capo Frasca and La Maddalena, and Sardinia weighs 60 percent of Italian military property. In addition, there are about 447,000 hectares of land polluted by what I call bombs against the environment: refineries, phantom gold mines that have left us unsown hills and cyanide sludge, chemical industries with emissions and discharges of all kinds, such as the characteristic red muds of the hills of Iglesias and the ponds of Portovesme. There are several sites, such as Porto Torres, Sulcis Iglesiente and Guspinese, where the available scientific data reveal an alarming pollution situation. There is a high percentage of population mortality due to a higher incidence than the mean of pleura and lung cancers. We think of the Municipality of Portoscuso - a small town in the province of Carbonia-Iglesias - where it is strictly forbidden to feed with local agricultural productions. In Portoscuso there is no mother who can only imagine giving her children the fruits and vegetables cultivated in the local gardens. The data is clear. There is often scientific evidence of environmental-related diseases, but one does not stop to think that behind this information there are people who have seen their right to health and life completely defiled. We are talking about people who have undertaken a daily struggle against the pain of an inexplicable mourning. The lands of Portoscuso were rich in vineyards; lands in which the economy was largely linked to breeding and fishing, as well as mining. This situation highlights the suffering of many families who are the weak parties to an evil pact based on moral blackmail and the choice between poverty and the workplace. In the Sulcis area, particularly in the area of Portoscuso, from the 1990s until today, there has been an increase of more than 20 percent of lung cancers and in children there has been a very high presence of lead in the blood. The absence of a successful regional energy plan does not facilitate the improvement of the situation. In recent times, there have been several requests to obtain permits for the construction of biomass plants that are not absolutely linked to local farms. We all know that these types of work have a negative effect on the health of the environment and the landscape, even from an aesthetic point of view. I do not understand: I do not understand why we must bear such great sacrifices if these plants are, at the end of the day, useless for Sardinia, given the current energy production to a greater extent than the real needs. On April 15 of this year, the director of the E.ON thermal power plant in Rijeka Santo, in the province of Sassari, was arrested. Along with him was also arrested the administrator of Litos srl, the company that should have dealt with the analyses on the polluted territories. It is clear that polluters play an easy role in paying those who have to do the checks and the reliefs, also thanks to the provision on environmental crimes that you are carrying out with majority blows. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] How much more do you want to pollute before you reverse this course? The Sardinian territory is rich in places of great environmental value that would deserve quick and accomplished safeguards. The lack of care of the territory and the lack of a serious project to stop the productions and programming of the reclamations have a negative impact on the image of the island and its economic-productive potential. The Sardinians, in order to get rid of the yoke imposed by the industry in history, should have the real possibility to draw from their territory the useful sustenance, carrying out sustainable activities. Today the great economic crisis that our country is experiencing is strengthening centralist policies, to the detriment of the exercise of the peripheral functions of the Regions. The Sardinian regional statute, in its failure to use the potential of special autonomy, is weak and unable to address the new problems. The Constitutional Court has expressed itself several times in the past, arguing for the possibility of adopting more stringent regional environmental standards than national ones, recognizing, albeit implicitly, that environmental protection is one of the main legislative powers of the special statute. The Government must commit itself to protecting the environment and promote targeted political and legislative action aimed at reversing the industrial policies implemented to date. Finally, I would like to remind you that there are 64,000 deaths from environmental causes in Italy per year and that the cost of health damage is EUR 97 billion per year. These figures should make us think. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u20	We greet with particular pleasure the students and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Giovanni Elia Lutzu" of Oschiri, in the province of Olbia-Tempio. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u21	I declare the debate open. Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, but above all representatives of the Government, according to the economic culture of Forza Italia, the State must be as light as possible, it must intervene where it is indispensable but it must not be pervasive. Forza Italia, however, wants the State to be present and so is the Government. Well, with regard to Sardinia, the State has been absent for too long. Sardinia is a region very far from the Continent. When the elections were held in Sicily, a political leader swam through the Strait of Messina; he could not have reached Sardinia by swimming, despite his boating qualities. Well, the truth is that Sardinia was connected, years ago, by various shipping companies. After the failure of Tirrenia a monopoly has been created. I think that privatisation has not been well managed and I am surprised that the Italian and European Antitrust Authority have not, at the time, found that in that way someone would have the monopoly of shipping from the Continent to Sardinia. This has led to an incredible rise in prices. A few years ago, in Italy there were three operating airlines on Sardinia: AirOne (which later merged with Alitalia), Alitalia itself (which has become, fortunately ours, a private company with a large international partner but which certainly no longer pursues the national interest but the legitimate improvement of its budget), and finally there was Meridiana. Today Meridiana is a company in great difficulty that is restructuring, asks for very substantial sacrifices to the workers and we do not know what its future will be. Energy in Sardinia also costs very high prices. Here are the motions that my colleagues and my colleagues have explained in detail, and I do not want to waste the time of this House, but I want to say one thing: the Government must seriously discuss with the political representatives of Sardinia in order to find out which roads it is necessary to take for Sardinia to recover economically and to make rational investments in sectors that have an economic future. You don't have to chase fairy tales or dreams. We must be concrete and give answers and we must stop forcing Parliament to submit motions. I would like to end by making a serious appeal to the Government: if today it will give a favourable opinion to certain motions, then please respect what they foresee because the Sardinians do not deserve to be mocked. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u23	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the agenda and on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u24	Mr President, the motions before us are very important. The theme of the valorization and promotion of the social and economic situation in Sardinia is of great importance and is much felt by the Government and also by the reading of the various motions there is a work characterized by a substantial convergence on many themes brought to the attention. These are, of course, motions written by different groups and therefore have some nuances that distinguish them, but the Government, in this case, has no difficulty in expressing a favourable opinion on all the motions presented with the aim of opening a working table that continues to focus attention on the economic and social situation of Sardinia, also with regard to the issues raised individually: employment crisis, territorial continuity and valorization of the autonomy of the Sardinia Region. On the other hand, on the G1 agenda, which was the first to sign Senator Serra, the Government expressed the opposite view.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u25	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the motions and the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u28	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I welcome the government's intervention, which is aimed at starting the motions presented. I take this opportunity to ask you to sign motion 412, of which Senator Lai is the first signatory and signed by other senators. I believe that this has been an important moment, to which I believe will follow an intense activity between the regional and local institutions and the Government in order to find the solutions that Sardinia deserves; and this above all because of its condition of difficulty weighed down by the insularity, an objective element that has conditioned and conditioned the life of the Sardinians and that leaves Sardinia out of the national and European networks, both energy and transport, which weigh a lot according to the economic and social development of the island.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u31	Cotti (M5S). Madam President, I am voting in favour of all motions and the G1 agenda by the 5 Star Movement, provided that there is a split vote on certain motions, of which Mr Santangelo will then speak, specifying what points separate votes are required. On Sardinia you should talk hours and hours to explain the reasons why you are in a different situation than other Italian regions. It is as if we were in the bottom of a barrel where it is very easy to enter but very difficult to get out. Let us imagine that this barrel represents the productive situation from Sardinia: it is much easier for others to fill this barrel than for the Sardinians to leave their territorial borders and overcome the insularity. This problem certainly differentiates us from other regions, but it also distinguishes us the fact that historically the choices made in Sardinia, almost always exogenous, have never been functional to the economy and life of the island. Needless to say, only in 2013 did we lose 4.4 percent of gross domestic product. There are 43,000 jobs lost in one year, a general unemployment of 19 percent and youth even at 54 percent, higher energy costs, a risk of monopoly in transport, which cannot be managed by the Region: both air and naval transport are managed by others and make us succubs of choices that are not made in Sardinia. Usually in Sardinia initiatives - economic, social or other - are placed functional to other places: we think of the military polygons, the penitentiaries and also the many dismissions that are being operated in this period, in the field of justice, motorization, financial offices, following which important garrisons are closed for a territory such as the Sardinian one, which has a population density much lower than the Italian average and which also has problems of internal transport and of connection between one area and the other of the island. To conclude my speech in an explanation of vote, I say that we are very much in agreement with what has been said in this House, except in a particular sector - the military - which cannot accept any hypothesis of economic revival of Sardinia based on the construction of death bombs, military means and other devilry. [[Applause from Senator Cappelletti]] , with which we would like to be an excuse to perpetuate the military occupation of Sardinia, from which we cannot get out, also because we still cannot say what really happened in our polygons regarding the presence of toxic substances, the use of ammunition containing depleted uranium, the effects of nanoparticles produced by explosions. It should have been widely demonstrated that there have been such problems in the Sardinian polygons, as well as in the missions carried out abroad. It should be clear that we need to put a point on this situation and on the tragic deaths that have occurred in the Sardinian polygons because of military exercises, and that we cannot possibly think of overcoming the problem by giving a little more money to Sardinia, through investments in the military sector. If we do not succeed in voting on motions for separate parts, we will vote in favour, but it is clear that, with regard to the development of military technologies, we absolutely do not agree: we do not want Sardinia to become a platform from which to launch military attacks, from one part of the world to the other, as has happened recently, in recent years, with regard to Lebanon and Palestine. We are, however, announcing our vote in favour of the motions and the agenda that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u34	MARINO Luigi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, Mr Senators and Senators, a few days ago - on 5 May - the European Commission estimates that the European area and our country will recover - albeit in decimal terms - in terms of GDP, employment and inflation. We know, however, that there are sometimes great differences behind the figures and averages and there are, for example, differences not only in Europe, but also, of course, in our own country. The average tends, by its nature, to be a liar and to conceal these differences. If there must be - as there must be - stable and lasting growth, to be such, it cannot be spotted by leopard. There must be organic growth: there can be no low-growth areas, as is our Mezzogiorno, for example, and higher-growth areas, such as the North of our country. Therefore, it is necessary for politics to take responsibility for having a global vision, carrying out interventions in support of homogeneous growth, which is in turn a multiplier: it allows to increase growth, it feeds itself. We are therefore faced with this reality, the Sardinian one, which sees an island, a region with all the indices, as has been listed by those who preceded me and as is contained in the same motions, highly differentiated from the national average. It is a region with structural weaknesses, which in this debate have all been extensively listed. We have a number of problems: from energy costs to internal transport costs; from the great difficulties of maritime and air transport connecting Italy and Sardinia to military services; from the crisis of industrial areas to the problems of the downsizing of certain services of the State, such as justice, for example, the school; to the downfall - I would say free - of the agro-industrial sector. I was surprised that in the motions that have been presented there has been a reduced space - even in some cases it has not even been mentioned - for the great theme of tourism. A tourism that has been reduced to the smallest terms in Sardinia, which should instead be the home of tourism, for demagogic choices that have been reported in this House by the Senator Council, even if tourism never succeeds alone - and this applies to Italy, France, Sardinia and any nation or area in the world - to compensate for the loss of the industrial capacity of services to produce wealth and well-being. Tourism is not enough on its own, but this peculiarity needs to be strengthened, and it is of course necessary to strengthen Sardinia's infrastructure, services and transport. Finally, I would like to stress one last point. Reading the motions it is clear that the spirit that moves them is Sardinian: they are written and shared by senators of Sardinia (and can only be so), who live closely the discomfort of the economic crisis, the discomfort of this wonderful land, perhaps one of the most beautiful in the world. Yet in all this there is always only one indication: the responsibility of the central state for the economic backwardness of this island. I think that the central state, as Senator Carraro recalled, has many responsibilities, but not all. I ask you whether it is possible that everything is always done because of the central state. Certainly this is the case in the case, for example, of floods or in the case of some measures that were to be taken, even on the tax, and have not been done, but is it possible that there is also a co-responsibility of the political class that has governed or governed this region in all these years? A local ruling class that has not done all it can to strengthen the excellence of this island, instead sticking only to welfare policies and inefficient? Is the economic crisis not also fueled by the proliferation of interventions and by the logic of assistance? And would it not have been more profitable to help local entrepreneurship, micro-entrepreneurship and small and medium-sized enterprises to become medium-sized and large enterprises? I believe that the motions call for a series of commitments to the Government which, if I may say so, are a little too numerous. I therefore find them reductive or generic, if not that, which instead seems more productive than all the others, which commits the Government to make Sardinia a national issue, as recalled by the motion submitted by Senator Uras, and consequently to give body to the establishment of a coordination committee between national government and regional government in the shortest possible time, and this is not indicated in the motions, because the variable time is fundamental to facilitate or to remove virtuous visions in relation to growth, work and employment. The premises of these motions are therefore valid, dispersive instead in the commitments that would have been best concentrated in a single commitment: that of making Sardinia the national question. We in the People's Area Group will vote in accordance with the instructions of the Government in this House. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and Senator Uras.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u37	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to begin by trying to figure out who to thank first. The government has been very sensitive in its statements, but I would like to thank especially our Sardinian colleagues - Senator Uras, Senator Floris and others - who have had the sensitivity to put in condition the Senate to finally be able to talk about very delicate issues, and especially those who had the sensitivity to subscribe to these motions, because lately we have dealt very little with problems in this country related to industry, crafts and small and medium-sized enterprises and we have dealt very little, and we continue to deal very little, with tourism. The motions are complex and very articulated, the premises that precede the requests to the Government are really binding and, precisely because current, these motions are dramatic. I wouldn't know whether to define motions as a cry of pain, but I certainly interpret them as a cry of help. These motions want to bring to the attention of everyone, especially of this Assembly, but in general of the whole country, what are the problems of this Region. I am sure, however, that in addition to the motions there will be something else to do: we will have to try to put ourselves in a position to be able to legislate in a positive way. The idea of being able to talk about concrete issues has fascinated us right away: these are issues, as we said before, too many times set aside, perhaps because the electoral law was more important and now there will be the issue of the Senate that will also put aside the issues still related to industry, tourism, small and medium-sized enterprises and public debt. Well, Sardinia is a fabulous region, a unique land, which has a unique autonomy, among other things, more accentuated than others because of specific historical and geopolitical situations. The Region of Sardinia, like others, is identified as special in article 116, paragraph 1, of the Constitution and to clear the field from any doubt, as I have already said in the illustration of the motion, we of the North League do not absolutely ask to eliminate the strong autonomy that the Constitution attaches to the current Regions with special statute, but we believe it is necessary to increase the degree of autonomy of the Regions with ordinary statute, allowing them to reason in economic terms a little 'different and taking as a model of reference, as far as we are concerned, the specialties and I refer to my areas of the North. Having said that, first of all, I would like to point out that if every Region is doing well in its small, it is not only good for itself, but for the whole country. I therefore hope that the central state will put these regions in a position to operate well. The motions before us, Madam President, deal with the economic and social crisis in Sardinia, which is a particularly serious crisis. As we said before, 13 percentage points of GDP have been lost since 2007, the unemployment rate is around 19 or 20 percent, youth unemployment is at 54 percent and poor families are 24-25 percent. They are frighteningly higher than the national average, which is already dramatic in itself. Although Sardinia is represented in all advertising billboards as a very beautiful territory (and indeed it is) has problems, with economic and financial repercussions, in the areas subject to military servitude that require the reclamation of the sites; these are damages that over the years have caused social and economic problems on sites that then have become unproductive; then there are environmental problems also for the waters that need reclamation. Then there is the question of nuclear waste, a subject that presents great problems, or the question of the prison regime, because there are many places on the island for prisoners under Article 41-a. Sardinia has not had more luck, indeed it has suffered some great problems, as a result of the disasters that hit it in 2013 and has not yet had positive answers. Passing on to energy, Sardinia is the only region without methane. I was talking to a colleague earlier who said that methane is not needed and that perhaps more attention should be paid to other issues. In this regard too, we should agree; we are not the IKEA, but a few tables can also do so: let us agree on what is best for this island. The cost of energy is 15% higher than in the rest of the country, where it is already the highest in Europe; it is therefore clear why the aluminium supply chain in particular has had the problems we know well. There is talk of mobility, a constitutionally protected right, but not guaranteed in fact because, as an island, it is likely that more attention should be paid to air and sea transport, not to mention the internal road to the island itself. As for industrial strategies, at a time when employment disputes are on the agenda, when the Meridiana airline and the Meridiana Maintenance company are in great difficulty, I understand that the Government's commitment is poor or certainly very little incisive. Agriculture - this was the subject of the debate I had before with my colleague - is one of the factors that should certainly be valued, because Sardinia is a very complex territory that makes specialties a national and European issue. As for the school - and here the donkey falls - there is the closure of many institutions, as has happened throughout the country, but the difficulties linked to internal mobility have exacerbated even more the problems on this island. The morphology of the territories has certainly not helped, forcing families to strong movements and I believe that in fact it has influenced much on the school leaving, in a region that has already the sad primacy of the highest rate of school dispersal. Same fate for the courts and the judges of peace. And the more you have, the more you put. It is the mirror of this country, probably seen with a magnifying glass. The motion in the vote calls for the Government to review some issues and, as in all the motions that have been presented, asks it to take concrete action to protect the territorial interests, with a collaboration between the State and the Regions, involving the system of autonomy. Full recognition of the autonomous system of the island, but with a look at those regions that want to question this centralist system, which is increasingly centralistic. And recognition at the highest levels of the Sardinian language. Dear Sardinian senators, this recognition can also be traced back to other regions. In Italy we have 20 regions and it would be wonderful if there were a motion a week on each region, to enable this Senate to work on exquisitely technical and serious issues. Someone asked to put the Sardinian issue on the government agenda. That's a great idea. The Sardinian question could be a model on which to work. There's a lot to do, and maybe some good ideas might come up for the other territories of this country. Talking about productions, talking about typicality, talking about culture and language is music for the ears of this Group. The Government will have to work hard, however, because Sardinia is thirsty for energy and infrastructure and wants to be able to exploit both agriculture and tourism in a serious way. The previous senator spoke of the lack of vision of local politics. In my opinion, those who think they can "fredge" the rich putting them in a position to have to pay some extra money to raise the coffers of the region probably did not understand anything and will put in crisis only and exclusively the workers, who work around the business of the vip and the "vippume" that goes around Sardinia and around the induced linked to tourism and that will put us back in first person. We are confident that this Government will enable this House and the Commissions to work on these issues. Let these motions come. It will be a start, in order to be able to talk seriously about an industrial plan and a national energy plan, which we have done very rarely and perhaps even badly in this period. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u40	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, a clear, though ruthless, photograph emerges from this morning's debate. On the one hand, Sardinia is a land rich in natural heritage and an important cultural heritage for the whole country, but, on the other hand, a photograph equally focused on a Sardinia in serious and lasting economic and financial crisis, with a dramatic infrastructure shortage. A Sardinia with a great decrease in the number of people employed, with a high unemployment rate in the 15-64 age group. A Sardinia that is the victim of a serious discrimination of important services, those services of which Italian citizens regularly benefit and which, on the other hand, are not used there: I am referring to postal services, communications services, a chronic inadequacy of the transport and road system. To this must be added the difficulty of external transport, in addition to the internal one, cause of the impossibility to be really connected to Italy and Europe, which already in itself confines Sardinia to a role of great disadvantage. We then have the big and very important issue of military structures, which must certainly be well framed. Today's motions will find the favorable vote of Forza Italia, precisely because of the need to help this island and this piece of Italy so important, but also in terms of an invitation to the Government to ensure that this morning - which saw the passionate speeches of colleagues who preceded the explanation of vote of Forza Italia - finds themselves in a real table. This would mean that the problems faced and shared today were not only a way to spend a few hours, but were a real starting point for opening a discussion table with the Government so that they were dealt with one by one with the will to resolve them. We cannot once again mock Sardinia by transforming this debate only in the moment of one morning of the Senate. The appeal that Forza Italia makes to the Government, reaffirming its vote in favour of all the motions, is to really engage, so that at least in a table the problems are addressed one by one with clarity, in order to try to resolve them: we still do not leave Sardinia alone. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u43	[[Brusio.]] I call on the House to lower its voice, because this is a very tiring way of doing so. LAI (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when I am about to declare the vote on behalf of the Democratic Party Group on these motions, I think I should call this House to bear the responsibility for what it is approving. In thanking the Government for the approval of the devices present in the motions, I want to point out that they are anything but generic, but indeed very precise and punctual, as well as the responsibility present within the part that precedes them is not generic. Sardinia is not indicated for a general list of complaints, such as that of a region that lists its own evils, but for a series of structural points for which it asks nothing more than what is given to other Italian territories on the front of their solution. These structural problems are amplified by the fact that it is an island, far from the continent and the center of the Mediterranean, conditioned as such in its relations with the rest of the territory: this condition binds not only the rights of individual citizens and their ability to take advantage of it, but also the enterprises. In fact, when in the "continent" - as we Sardinians call the rest of the peninsula - we look at what is within an hour's journey and in the market there are 5 to 7 million citizens, while at the same time in a region there are at most 500,000, even doing business is decidedly different. I would add that, when these structural nodes come from afar in time, but not so far away; when the lost opportunities of a growing country did not share the island, as when the rest of the country was metanized; when the cost of domestic electricity alone involves an eight times higher expense, those same citizens necessarily have a different feeling, even of citizenship, towards their country. When you then think that ours is a region that should look to tourism - as we all say - but going there to make tourists means, only for the trip, deciding to take an investment, facing a cost that is already worth the opportunity to make an entire holiday somewhere else, here everything becomes more complicated. Sardinia asks nothing more than what is due to it. In this case - I say this also thinking of the temptation to tell the Sardinians as a stereotype - we are not people who complain or who make a list of complaints, because we are always in the front row when there is new things to do. Let me give just one example: in this country, since 1 January, all regions with ordinary statutes have adopted the harmonised budget. Well, Sardinia was the first Special Statute Region that chose to adopt the harmonised budget, which means taking responsibility for its own resources, even in advance of the State. We were the first Region with special statute, with Friuli-Venezia Giulia, which reduced its regional advisors, also there on the front of the reduction of the costs of politics. We do not back down when it comes to thinking about lower costs than politics or public administration. I would like to remind you - by concluding and clearly declaring the vote in favour of our motion, but also the other motions that have been tabled - that the commitments that are being requested are very precise; we will remember them every time using this occasion and this parliamentary sitting, which we consider to be very important. We are not generally asking for methane to arrive, but we are asking for a technical table to be set up to say how much it costs to bring methane to Sardinia and where resources can come from. We want the costs of territorial continuity not to be borne by the Region's budget, if the Sardinians are Italian citizens, but to be returned to the State budget, as they were from 1996 to 2001, when a State law established that there was air territorial continuity for Sardinia. We would like the fact that Tirrenia is privatised does not mean that the ferry costs EUR 700, but we would like it, for those who come to Sardinia, to cost exactly as the amount that an Italian citizen pays when moving for the same distance. We do not ask that military servitudes be erased, because we realize that they cannot all be erased, but we ask that we simply rebalance the fact that we put 61 percent of the territory and that only 2% of the cost of defence is invested in Sardinia: 60 against 2% is too little. We do not ask to be privileged, but we ask not to be punished for the agricultural sector in the year of the Expo, because it is not possible that, in the year in which the fishing quota for bluefin tuna increases by 20%, not even a boat in Sardinia can fish for bluefin tuna. We are not asking for generic things, but we are asking that we be able to use the money from the European Social Fund for Sardinia to pay the integration fund by way of derogation from the Sardinians: our 100 million euros to be used for this, so as not to leave the workers without salary. We do not ask for generic things, but we ask that, after what happened at La Maddalena, where a war economy must be converted into a civil economy, those resources that are there do not remain in the hands of the Mita Resort or the Civil Protection, but return to the hands of the Autonomous Region of Sardinia, to allow that island to start again, after seven years of deception, from the great deception of the G8 of La Maddalena. We do not ask for generic things, but we ask to be able to review - because this was not the Government that did it - the prison plan, which provides that 1,000 people subject to 41- bis come to Sardinia, when our Region should bear no more than 50. And it is not fair that we pay for this without being able to be sure that the security system in Sardinia adapts. These are not generic requests, but are requests on which Sardinia wants to play its part. This Parliament, by voting on these motions, is asking the Government to do its own. I am convinced - because this year it has happened better than in the other years in the relationship between my region and this Government - that these commitments made with this motion in this House will be respected. The Sardinians trust, but they trust more if Parliament also supports them. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u44	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. After the vote on motions under Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the agenda will be put to the vote, also for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 378. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Uras and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on motion 378. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 401.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u47	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, we are asking for the separate vote on motion 401. We call for the vote to be taken separately on point 3 and then on the rest of the motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u48	There is no agreement and therefore, as you know, it is deliberated by a show of hands, without discussion, pursuant to Rule 132 (5) of the Rules of Procedure. I put to the vote the motion for a separate vote, tabled by Senator Santangelo. The Senate doesn't approve. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 401, tabled by Senator Floris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 408.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u51	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, by sharing much of the content of the motions, there is simply the will of the Five Star Movement to vote for the parties we agree with. We note the repeated closure also at these moments by the majority. On this motion, tabled by the Senator-Council, we call for a separate vote on point 4 alone and then on the remaining part.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u52	There is no unanimous agreement. I put to the vote the motion for a separate vote, tabled by Senator Santangelo. The Senate doesn't approve. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 408, tabled by Senator Council and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 412.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u55	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, we would like to vote separately on points 4 and 5 (b) and then proceed with another vote on the rest of the motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u56	There is no unanimous agreement. I put to the vote the motion for a separate vote, tabled by Senator Santangelo. The Senate doesn't approve. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 412, tabled by Senator Lai and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u59	SERRA (M5S). Mr President, while I was listening to the explanations of vote of all my fellow Members, I wondered how it would be possible for Sardinia to become autonomous if this enormous expenditure of industrial policies, which are useless for Sardinia, were not exceeded. Therefore, I wonder how our agenda can be rejected, since, in any case, it is based exclusively on what is the life and vitality of Sardinia.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u60	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1, tabled by Senator Serra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u61	We greet the students of the St. Gregory the Great Institute of St. Gregory the Great, in the province of Salerno. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u62	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00076 (text 2), tabled by Senator Ranucci and other Senators, 1-00336 (text 2), tabled by Senator Crosio and other Senators, 1-00366, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other Senators, 1-00410, presented by Senator Orellana and other Senators, and 1-00411, presented by Senator Romani Paolo and other Senators, on the construction of the ultra-wide band network. I call Senator Ranucci to explain motion 76 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u63	Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, one of the first political actions of the Democratic Party Group in the Senate of this legislature was to put the Digital Agenda and broadband at the centre of the debate. This is based on the concept that, in order to achieve rapid and concrete development, the European Commission has proposed a Digital Agenda in which the main objective is to develop a digital single market to lead Europe towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I would ask you, please, to speak. 11:22 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u64	It's the moment of the change of subject. You must be good at winning the audience. My colleagues, of course, have a duty to listen carefully to you.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u65	I'm asking you to whistle like a good referee. The Digital Agenda for Europe sets out the objectives for the installation and deployment of fast and superfast broadband and provides for a series of measures to facilitate the installation of new generation fibre-based access networks, also defined as real "computer highways," and to support significant investments that will be needed in the coming years. New generation networks have shown, among other things, that they are attractive instruments for important public and private investments, as evidenced by data from the main countries of the world, including the United States, India, China and Korea. In the light of accredited estimates by scholars and international bodies, it is now a well established thesis that the expansion of the development of a "digital ecosystem" is the basis of the recovery of productivity, in order to enhance the international competitiveness of a country, and to create a new qualified employment. At this moment no other sector is able to increase to an equivalent extent the growth and development of the country. We start from April 2012, in which the Italian Digital Agenda was established, providing for the main actions in the areas of digital identity, digital/open data public administration, digital education, health and digital divide, electronic payments and digital justice. The Agency for Digital Italy and the digitisation of public administration, a key instrument for the implementation of the Italian Digital Agenda, has also been set up. On March 3, 2015 - it must be acknowledged to this Government - the Strategic Plan for ultra-wideband was approved, in order to define a combined strategy of all the actors involved in achieving the objectives of the European Agenda 2020; a serious technological infrastructure plan to optimize the penetration of broadband services and remain aligned with the main economies. The strategic plan mentioned will also be used - and this is very important for our economy - for national financing instruments, the European Union and the European Investment Bank, for targeted investment in areas where, at present, the introduction of broadband and ultra-wide is not economically attractive, and where only such targeted actions can ensure the sustainability of investment. For the first time, then, the Government has drawn up a Strategic Plan for the ultra-wide band, which provides for the subdivision of the country into 94,000 homogeneous sub-areas, classified in turn as clusters. A first cluster includes the country's top 15 cities and, presenting the best cost-benefit ratio, is of course the most interesting group for private investors. For this cluster, the goal is to bring the band speed from 30 to 100 megabits per second. For the B cluster, which includes over 1,000 Italian municipalities, 30 megabits are expected to be accessed and, thanks to a small public intervention, a potential upgrade to 100 megabits. The C cluster includes more than 2,600 municipalities in marginal areas, currently at market failure, and in it 30 megabit networks can also be built with public intervention. Finally, the cluster D, which includes more than 4,000 municipalities, in areas with total market failure, is feasible only the public intervention. Now I'm going to the government. It is important that, in this programme, the Government can guarantee some fundamental and essential points, including the Digital Agenda, which must become a concrete instrument as soon as possible, capable of effectively and efficiently pursuing the ambitious objectives set at Community level by the Digital Agenda for Europe. It is important to extend the territorial coverage of services and access to broadband and ultra-wide, reducing the digital divide and accelerating the development of ultra-wideband as a priority to industrial districts, but also to the national economic system with the aim, moreover, of facilitating the path of companies and citizens in the production and use of digital content. It is also important to encourage the development of fibre investments with fiber to the home and fiber to the building technology and, where possible, the choice of an agreed and progressive integration of fiber to the entire national network. At this point I turn again to the Government, because we have some news that has happened in these last hours, and also for an answer. As we are talking about fiber and not copper mesh, we know that in the last few hours there has been an agreement between Telecom and Fastweb, which involves the use of WDSL technology that would allow to overcome one of the main problems of fiber, i.e. its operation only if the cabinet has only one operator. The new technology would allow speeds between 100 and 200 megabits constant, even if the operators in the lockers are more than one. It is a technical issue but, to the government, also political. The experiment could show that the infrastructure could take place step by step: you could arrive first with copper in the cabinets and then, when the demand for services becomes such that you can pay for the investment, you could bring the fiber inside the houses. It's no small difference: bringing the 100 megabits with the enhanced WDSL costs 100 euros per user. Cablando, on the other hand, would cost 1,000. It is clear that this is a political choice to which the Government must refer. It is also important to ensure the most effective use of the European resources already allocated in the programming phase to cover investment in broadband and ultra-wide networks and to coordinate public and private investments in network infrastructures that ensure neutral access for all operators. It is still important to act in the territorial basins characterized by important demographic settlements and in the areas in which the industrial districts are located, as they are more urged by the competitive system, as well as in the municipalities falling into marginal areas or market failure. We also talked about digital literacy. This is an important leg of the table that holds the broadband policy. If we think of handing this technology to a user who doesn't know exactly what to do, to citizens who don't know how to use it, we make an investment that could remain trunk or lame. Finally, it is important to strengthen the regulation of the sector with access to civil infrastructures, in order to create fibre optic networks and to increase the use of the function of Wi-Fi networks in public places. I believe that the country must think of an infrastructure that is useful not only for development, but also for deburocratization and citizens, a modern Italy that looks at Europe and the world in a competitive way. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u66	I call Senator Crosio to explain motion 336 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u67	Mr President, I will draw on a passage from my colleague, Mr Ranucci, which I consider significant as a message to the Government, which I wrote to myself in my own notes. Mr Secretary, I am referring to the fact that the Government has to forget, rightly and because of a contingent fact, the book of dreams. But the whole country has to forget the dream book. An FTTH infrastructure (fiber to the home), inserted - as it seemed to understand - which technological architecture wanted by the Government, would be extraordinary. But unfortunately it would take tens of billions of euros that, at this moment, are certainly not available in our country. We believe - and we have also written this in our motion - that the ability lies in finding that functional mix between the interest of the country, legitimate and above all, and the investments made on the market by the operators. And let's get to the point. It is precisely these hours the announcement - I think it significant and we have all seen it - that Telecom and Fastweb have decided to undertake a new experimentation - to honour the true already done in the laboratory with answers more than positive from the Alcatel Lucent - that it is the technology made available, that would use what already present on the territory to have a network performance that would ensure at least 100 megabits per second and that, if it were to go beyond, it would be extraordinary. But that's not the point. The point is that the networks present in our territory are not actually obsolete, or can no longer be classified as such, because they can be brought to a performance that goes to satisfy what, in fact, is the demand of band of our country. As I said, we must find the functional mix, which goes through reflections that must be very serious and political. First of all, we must stop saying that our country will certainly come to meet the objectives of the Digital Agenda for Europe. We'll never satisfy them. We will never meet that requirement which requires us, within a certain time, to ensure at least 50 percent of the resident population 50 megabits per second and the remaining 100 megabits per second. It is a fact that I even find inappropriate to take into account. We believe that, in order to do something really useful and necessary for our country - and we are already late - we must realize what we have always asked to do as a Group of the North League, that is to say a real project Country that starts with solid and concrete principles. The electronic infrastructure network is a bit like the road network: you build roads where there is traffic or where I think I will have traffic and market, with a calibration functional to demand. It is not necessary to bring a connection to 100 megabits per second - always the usual example - to the hamlet of Treballe, to which I love very much, which stands at over 2,000 meters of altitude and where probably this need does not exist. Probably bringing a connection to 30 megabits per second, perhaps not with a cable system, but with technologies that today are equally performing, like the so-called Internet flash drives - just to be clear - that give excellent performance, we would have the opportunity to invest resources where there is a more solid need. In order to achieve this, we have a priority, which I have also read in the Government's intentions, perhaps for the first time in a serious way and, then, we will see if the statements will follow the facts. In order to be able to design, plan and realize a network that has certain conditions, the first thing that must be realized, and that has never been done in our country, so we have a delay of at least ten years, is the realization of a network register, that is, a reconnaissance to understand what we have "under our feet." I can't design anything if I don't know what I have. I would like to point out one thing, which I think is important: in our country we have the physical availability of ultra-wide bandwidth, even with exaggerated load-bearing systems, which are underused. We have ultra-wide gangs that overlap along the railroad along the highways and on the high-voltage poles. We have ultra-wide gangs everywhere, but they are not fully used. A land register of networks, a punctual survey and a relief that allows you to understand what technologies and infrastructures are available on the territory are the basic platform to be able to seriously plan a development and a project that you can really call "country project." I believe that this is not a utopia: we have always asked for it. It is clear that the next step will be to achieve a situation that is different from the one we had in the past. The functional mix will be between the Government, the State and private operators. It is therefore necessary not to have the usual operator who manages everything and does the good and bad weather, but on this new platform there will have to be a technological neutrality, for free access to the marked by all. And even in this case the Government will have to really do its part, in order to find the "blessed" functional mix between the parts of territory in which there is a profitability, from the economic point of view, and the parts that are called "market failure." And the government will have to focus on these portions of territory, to ensure what the Digital Agenda requires of us, at least as a thought, that all citizens have, as well as free access, also the possibility of access to a band that has a performance in accordance with that required at the moment. It is clear that in all this system there must be a main actor: someone must have the rudder in his hand. I am in the second parliamentary term in Parliament and, unfortunately, I have heard so many statements from ministers, undersecretaries and governments who have succeeded us and I assure you that I have been sufficiently critical even when I was sitting among the majority. However, the concrete facts were missing: there were ministers and Undersecretaries who dealt exclusively with television and others, like Minister Passera, who wanted to "go to the moon" and who then lost in space and we no longer understood what he would have wanted to do. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Rizzotti and Scibona]] The real truth - I say it to the government - is that in the end, as we say in my own part, ghe vö i danèe (it takes money), and if good morning is seen from the morning, allow me, Undersecretary, in the DEF I have seen masked, rightly, these statements with a certain emphasis, but economically I have to say that there is a lot of shyness. I say it with great respect. I am convinced that the Undersecretary will give us satisfaction, because we finally have someone - I hope I am not mistaken - who at least knows what we are talking about. Among the government benches, unfortunately, we had Undersecretaries who, when we talked about broadband, didn't know very well whether we were at Magliana or in a civic gang, or something like that. We are here, we are vigilant and we are also cooperative. We are truly cooperative, and we have always been, because it is a fact that what we have today on the territory of our country is the plastic representation of what we have been saying for many years now: we cannot think that a Government autonomously takes over the situation and does - with all the artifices, glass or not glass, but now not within the details - what they are doing, for example, in Japan. In that country, however, they have the money and have invested 50 billion euros, so they will do what we can never do. I believe, however, that there really are conditions, also because there is certainly a market. There is also a certainty that all economic and global analysts subscribe: on the investment of the network there is the guarantee of return of GDP, so we do not even run this risk. But you have to be a little bold and don't wait for the market to come. If, for example, the inventor of the iPhone had waited for the demand of the market today we would not have it: it was forward-looking, it created the iPhone, it created the market and today the situation is what we well know. I hope, therefore, that our motion, which summarizes my thoughts, and in some parts with very specific illustrations, will be appreciated by the Government. We are prepared to negotiate, but I believe, as happened earlier with the motion on Sardinia, here too there must be a clear vision from Parliament for the good of the country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u68	I call Senator Cioffi to explain motion No 366, of which a rewording has been tabled, the text of which is being distributed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u69	Mr President, today we are talking, through these motions - and it is a satisfaction for us to be able to do so in this House - about a subject that we consider essential for the development of the country, if we really want to change it. The aspects we're dealing with would seem technical. We are talking about fiber, download and upload capabilities, but the network infrastructure represented by the ultra-wide band is perhaps the only, real and great infrastructure this country needs. And we should all remember that because, once we have finished, historically, the electricity network, the gas network and all the networks, including the copper one of Telecom, that have allowed this country to move forward, the only real network infrastructure we need is the fibre network. Over the last few years the development of the network has experienced an extraordinary expansion. Unfortunately, we are still behind other European countries in our country. We have to give some examples. We must move towards the digitisation of public administration, which we are all talking about, but then we must act and, we have health care, school. Video communication on the web has become very strong and important. We know that Italy has remained historically behind, because it has never gone to cable television, and this is a delay, because we have never left on this front. In order to make cities more and more smart - to use an English word that makes the idea good, having now entered the common vocabulary - we need to provide better services. Fast and superfast connections therefore represent, surely, a great capacity for development of this country. If we want to use a term dear to you, and to us a little less, that of GDP, we should say that the European Commission reminds us that, by increasing the penetration of the ultra-wide band by 10%, we can contribute to an estimated increase in GDP by 1-1.5%. We need to achieve the well-known goals of a 30 megabit per second connection for all citizens by 2020 and the availability, for at least 50% of the population, of 100 megabit per second, but we are still slow and we are far behind. Indeed, a survey carried out by the Competition Authority and the Guarantee Authority in the Communications of November 2014 reminds us that Italy, together with Cyprus and Greece, is the last among the Member States of the European Union, with a number of people who have subscribed a download subscription of more than 30 megabits per second less than 1%, while the European average is 21%. So, we're way behind. Senator Ranucci spoke before an agreement between Telecom and Metroweb, but we must remember that yesterday strangely a meeting took place at the Democratic Party headquarters, at the Nazarene, between AGCOM and its President, the Antitrust with its President, Telecom with its President, Vodafone with its President, Metroweb and the Government. And today we are told that, with the copper network, we can reach a connection speed of 100 megabits per second. Are we protecting the interests of someone, perhaps that Telecom that was splintered when it was sold out by this state that owned it and, therefore, was taken away from the citizens? By continuing to defend these interests, when will we be able to evolve, move forward and make citizens become again the dominus of infrastructure? We were talking about 100 megabits per second, but we have to remember that the fiber can reach a speed of 10 terabit per second. And so, we are talking about a remarkable order of magnitude, without considering that we never talk about the fact that the speed in download and in upload must be the same: in download the numbers are reached, and not in upload and, therefore, how do we create a new industry and a new hope for our country? What we are asking for is very clear. It is true that we have talked about the definitive and precise mapping of the existing, but the fundamental thing that we are asking - and this is the point that differentiates us - is that the infrastructure is carried out by a society with a public majority, and therefore of the citizens. This infrastructure must be everyone's, otherwise we won't get out of it. We must have the courage to reaffirm the central role of citizens. Private operators also compete with each other, but the State must guarantee equal conditions for all, and it is the only one who can do so. What we are asking for is precisely this type of society. Then perhaps, as we have read in the newspapers, these companies will be able to enter Enel, Terna, a society with public participation, the municipalized ones, which have many resources and services to get through the fiber, but the majority must be citizens. Let's get back to the central role of the state. It's not a complicated concept, it's not a complicated thing. Perhaps it is too much, but we simply ask you to make sure that you feel proud to be citizens of this country and to be able to tell the citizens that you are so proud to make the network for them, and that it is them. Maybe it's hard for you to understand this concept, because you fell in love with the market, but you never respected the rules of that market, because that happened. We always talk about concepts of freedom; we have heard many times about a liberal system in the economy, but then we violate those rules that are the basis of liberal thinking. Then you're not liberal. You're evildoers. On the other hand, as always, you fell in love with the market so much that some money ends up in the pockets of someone that that market manages. Then maybe it's time we all get back on our way and feel powerfully strong again. Motion 366 therefore provides for us to become main actors again and we remember that the future of this country is all in the network infrastructure. You could then talk about the whole game that you play on another type of infrastructure, which is the one managed by another very important operator, namely RAI Way, object of that famous public offer of purchase made by EI Towers that - as we have read - is the subject of a survey of the Finance Guard. Who knows why these things happen; who knows why someone does these things and about those stock movements someone earns. However, RAI Way has another important piece of infrastructure, i.e. all the towers. We know that the Lamy plan tells us that the 700 megahertz band currently used will be at the service of the spread on cell phones. And so, that's another piece of infrastructure to consider, too. Therefore, I wonder why RAI Way is not included in this public society. Why don't we make a good society with a public majority? We are not asking for it to be done by 100% public, but by a public majority, possibly without operators in competition, otherwise there is a conflict of interest; or, if they are to enter, they must have absolutely minority quotas. All this to ensure that this infrastructure is really a golden-egged hen for Italians, who will finally be able to create a business and can do it from home and get rid of slavery to have to go to work. And, in this way, and they will recover time and that time will serve them to live better, because what it takes to live better is time, and not money. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u70	I call Senator Orellana to explain motion 410.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the need and urgency to equip our country with an ultra-wide bandwidth network infrastructure is well known to all: it is an infrastructure that will be able to fly to a growth in the country of which we unfortunately find it difficult to see the warnings. Public and private engagement in this network represents an investment that will allow us not to lose further ground towards the other nations of the world and that also represents an anti-cyclical investment compared to a ongoing crisis in our country. The importance of this infrastructure is also reiterated by the European Commission in its Communication entitled 'Digital Agenda for Europe - Digital technologies as a driver of European growth', where precise objectives are set, namely to ensure that, by 2020, all European citizens have access to much faster connections, more than 30 megabits per second, and that at least 50% of EU households can subscribe to the Internet with connections above 100 megabits per second. In order to achieve these challenging objectives, the European Commission considers that commercial investors are undoubtedly the first source of investment. However, the Union itself recognises that the objectives set by the Digital Agenda cannot be achieved without the support of public funds. For this reason, the Digital Agenda calls on Member States to use: Public funding in line with EU State aid and competition rules is needed to achieve the targets in terms of Internet coverage, speed and deployment set out in the Europe 2020 strategy. The Commission also recalls that, in certain circumstances, Member States may consider the provision of a broadband network as an SGEI (service of general economic interest) within the meaning of Article 106 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In what circumstances can the ultra-wideband network be considered SGEI? The Commission excludes that, in areas where private investors have already invested in an ultra-wide broadband network infrastructure and already provide competitive services with adequate coverage, the public funding of a competitive broadband infrastructure can be considered an SGEI. However, where it can be demonstrated that private investors may not be able to provide adequate broadband and ultra-wide coverage to all citizens and users in the near future, thus leaving a large part of the population undiscovered, it will be possible to provide compensation for public service obligations to an undertaking entrusted with the provision of an SGEI. European legislation allows and, indeed, drives national states to commit themselves to public funding for network infrastructure. What did this government do to develop this infrastructure? Last year the decree-law unblocks Italy has put on track some interesting tools, such as a credit of tax IRES and IRAP in order to favor infrastructural interventions; it has been decided the creation of the so-called "catast of infrastructures" and, in order to favor the infrastructural of the buildings of new construction, from 1 July of this year these will have to be equipped with a physical infrastructure multiservice passive inside the building, constituted from adequate installative spaces and high-speed communication systems in fiber optic up to the points of network terminals. Moreover, through the company in house Infotel, some regional calls for the development of ultra-wide band were issued in so-called market failure areas, i.e. where the return of the investment of a private commercial operator is uneconomic. Only interesting interventions - as I said - as could also be defined some of those of previous governments, but which are not giving sufficient impetus in terms of time and resources to the existing urgency to equip themselves with a widespread broadband and ultra-wide network. More recently, the Government has proposed an ambitious Italian strategy for the ultra-wide band, which is combined with an Italian strategy for digital growth. It should be said that the objectives of these strategies are aligned with what the European Union envisages in terms of the spread of broadband and ultra-wide access. These targets were mentioned earlier but, in the government's strategy, they went further and reached 85% coverage at 100 megabits and not 50, as in the Europe 2020 target. In addition, the division of the market into four different clusters, defined on the basis of population concentration and spatial characteristics, should allow to maximise the effectiveness of public intervention compared to available economic resources, also applying the concept of SGEI in areas, alias clusters, where private investment is cheap or not at all convenient. A specific attention in this Italian strategy for the ultra-wide band must be placed in the financial coverage that the Government, in this document, estimates in 12 billion euros. How are these 12 billions found and what are these 12 billions composed of? The above-mentioned strategy covers funds of Community, national and regional origin: the ERDF (European Regional Development Fund), the EAFRD (European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development) and the CSF (Development and Cohesion Fund), which have been estimated as a whole - as can be seen from the tables in the document - up to a maximum of € 7.63 billion, of which € 2 400 million in ERDF/EAFRD funds. To this must be added € 2.419 million of investments already under way by private individuals or the previous BUL plan. It is, therefore, money already in expense courses, which probably should not have been counted. In total, in Table 3, we reach a maximum of 10,049 million euros. To reach the necessary €12,000 million (perhaps even underestimated), general trust is placed on the Juncker plan and on the tax credits of the decree-law unblocks Italy. But let us examine these numbers well: the ERDF, EAFRD and FSC funds are co-financed funds and, in particular, the ERDF and EAFRD require 50% regional co-financing. But are we confident that our regions have EUR 1,200 million to co-finance? The last law of stability has rather made cuts to the Regions and, therefore, this doubt is legitimate. The FSC funds are also co-financed, but the document makes it clear that they will be available from 2017, while the plan will end in 2020 - so we will be half-way through - and will complement the strategy. We will understand, therefore, in two years' time whether or not these funds will be available, depending, inter alia, on our future capacity to co-finance, because they too are co-financed. To be honest, an advance of €1.5 billion from a credit institution is also planned for 2015. One wonders what it is and what interest it can apply to this advance. On the Juncker level, an increasing number of analysts and experts are highly critical. In the issue of the weekly "Espresso" in newsstands these days, the editorialist Massimo Riva has signed a very critical article, which is significantly titled: What happened to the Juncker plan? The President of Cassa Depositi e Prestiti also expressed strong doubts, which, at a conference of 25 March 2015 on the university proposal "Bocconi" for the reform of the management of the central government, highlighted that this plan is based on a series of procedures so complex that the projects that theoretically should be started in 2015 are likely to be financed only from 2019. Among other things, these concepts were also reiterated in a hearing at the 14th Commission in the Senate. In the motion at my first signature, therefore, the Government is asked to undertake to promote as soon as possible adequate clarifications about the economic appropriations planned and actually available, the modalities and the times of their delivery, in order to provide certainties and thus allow interested individuals to invest in the realization of the digital development of our country to do so. In view of the undoubted importance of this plan, we are also calling for a constant, regular update of Parliament's implementation. Another important aspect that the motion underlines is the need to implement a process of digital literacy for citizens, because in Italy it is only an infrastructure delay. Greater knowledge of the benefits of using the Internet and greater familiarity with the tools that allow access (PC, tablet and smartphone) are essential to increase the demand for broadband and ultra-wide. Some numbers: in Italy, regular Internet users are only 56% of the population aged 16 to 74, compared to a European average of 72%; moreover, 34% of Italians have never used the Internet, compared to 21% of the European average. The level of use of network services is usually less than half of the average value found within the web. Disappointing data are also found in the relationship between citizens and public administrations: for example, citizens today do not consider the Internet as the first choice in their interaction with public administrations. The relationship between citizens and public administrations has remained anchored to a one-way model, such as simple retrieval of information, prior to the so-called web 2.0 paradigm, in which the exchange is bidirectional and consequently more profitable. To confirm this, an ISTAT survey of 2013 indicates that almost all municipalities now have a website (99.4 percent), but only less than 20 percent provide services that can be performed completely online. To confirm this, moreover, according to an investigation carried out by ISTAT in 2012, direct contact through the door still represents the prevailing mode in the relationship with the public administration (64 percent), followed by the telephone, while the use of the online tools stops at less than 20 percent. There is therefore a need for a change of pace as regards the relationship between citizens and the network, whose use for too many users is limited to interaction with social networks alone and little more. The commitment, therefore, will have to be towards a process of citizens' literacy, helping them understand the real potential of the network, as well as solving the objective technical difficulties in accessing it. There must be an increase in the provision of online services by public administrations at all levels, with easy access through a unique and simple way, which does not force - for example - the citizen to repeatedly record and, therefore, to continuously re-give his data to the different sites of the public administration. Finally, there must be an involvement of the employees of public administrations, who must become the drivers of innovation, thanks to the digital application of their experience and knowledge, without risking becoming a brake, lacking their involvement that makes them fully involved. In conclusion, while recognizing to the Government a particular attention to this infrastructure essential for the future of the Country, here it is really necessary to change towards and accelerate in the realization of the ultra-wide band, through certain investments for the next few years, abandoning illusions on uncertain or completely non-existent financial availability and avoiding hopes that risk to be misplaced; through a slim and effective governance of a complex and articulated process that will last many years; finally, through a real process of literacy of citizens, businesses and public administrations, guaranteeing a constant update to the Parliament on the realization of the plan. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u72	I call Senator Pelino to explain motion No 411.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u73	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, the subject under discussion is a major one. The objective to equip our country with the ultra-wide band can no longer be procrastinated. It is essential to invest in telecommunications, as they represent a sector that contributes significantly to the growth and development of Italy. The ultra-wide band represents the necessary infrastructure without which Italy's backwardness and gap with other European countries would remain unbridled. The natural consequence of our delay in introducing the most modern technological innovations is that distortions are generated not only from the economic point of view, but also from the point of view of the use of services. In fact, the latest available data show that regular Internet users are only 56 percent of the population aged 16 to 74, compared to an average of 72 percent. Our country's delays in digital development can also be seen by examining the different public sectors that offer services to citizens. In the health sector, for example, the electronic health file has only been introduced in four regions and is currently used only by 13% of the population. In addition, only 6% of medical records in Italy are dematerialised, only 49 percent of healthcare companies offer the possibility to book specialist visits online and 24 percent to pay for the ticket via the web. In the school sector, despite some progress in recent years, high-speed Internet connections are still only available in 23 percent of the second cycle institutions and 10 percent of those in the first cycle and one computer is available for every 8 students. The municipalities have launched significant digitisation measures, but only in one case in five services are provided that can be carried out completely online. Only 15 percent of the city's municipalities allow the online payment of TASI and even lower percentages relate to other municipal taxes. Not only that, but Italy is the country with the least coverage of new generation networks in Europe. In 2014, only 20% of the territory is covered by the network at speeds of 30 megabits per second, compared to 62% of the European average. If we add to this data that many areas of our territory are totally discovered, because they are disadvantaged or because they are mountainous, we realize the small coverage of the network over the entire territory. In this regard, we welcome the strategic objective of the Digital Agenda for Europe, whereby an ultra-wideband infrastructure will be developed throughout the territory by 2020, thus ensuring that 100% of the citizens can benefit from the network at 30 megabits per second. This strategy is nothing more than the continuation of what the then Minister of Economic Development Paolo Romani had planned in 2009 with the Berlusconi Government. That broadband implementation programme was intended to fill the digital divide in Italy and consisted of bringing broadband to at least 20 megabits per second to 96 percent of the population and at least 2 megabits per second to the remaining part by 2012. A comparison of the figures on the speed of the network shows how technology has made giant strides in very few years. Now we are talking about 100 megabits per second, and no more than 20, but what is important to highlight here is that Forza Italia has always considered the ultra-wide band a bulwark for the growth and modernization of the country and the Roman plan is a significant example of this. For these reasons, through our motion we hope that the Government will take care of the need now unavoidable to equip Italy with a fast network of telecommunications that will allow us to be at the forefront, to be more modern and more competitive. From our point of view, it is pre-eminent to develop a national strategic vision for the telecommunications sector in which both the fundamental contribution of private companies and the interest of citizens to be reached by the ultra-wide band network are valued. The considerable resources needed for the implementation of the network must not discourage good will. In this respect, we call on the Government to commit the resources of the European Structural Funds to support the necessary interventions to develop broadband and ultra-wide on fixed and fibre, Wi-Fi and mobile networks. Finally, the Digital Agenda for Europe 2020 must be continued and the objectives set by the Italian strategy for ultra-broadband and digital growth 2014-2020 must be pursued. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u74	I declare the debate open. Senator Sonego is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor briefly, but nevertheless with the intention of contributing to a debate which is important for Parliament's work and for the future of the country. First, I express a non-formal appreciation for the fact that the Government last March decided to launch an objectively innovative program, that of the ultra-wide band, long-awaited and on which the possibility of increasing the economic and social competitiveness of our country will depend significantly. The plan is welcome for many reasons. If I had to express a reminder to improve some aspects, I would say that it is, in addition, a question of introducing the presence of a network operator to manage the public-owned infrastructure and to ensure convincingly the neutrality and universality of the access faculty. The plan seems very well thought out and I would make this addition. Moreover, I do not think anyone can escape the fact that even the Antitrust, acting at the request of Palazzo Chigi on the floor in question, has urged us to go in that direction, with the typical forms of the Competition Authority and the market. Then there is a second point. I think we should all appreciate the fact that the ultra-wide bandwidth plan has been a rock in the pond of the debate on technological innovation in connectivity. The stagnant situation of the debate reflects the stagnation of infrastructure technology. That stone in pigeonhole has provoked - I think we must say it openly and the Government is very aware of it - a nervous reaction by the incumbent, the main Italian telecom operator, Telecom Italia, who perceived the government plan of fibre as a threat to the budgetary and market value of its copper network. In other words, that nervousness is the manifestation of the perception of the ultra-wide gang plan, which obviously benefits the future and present of the country, as a threat to itself. It seems to me that we need to focus on this first and foremost by confirming that the institutions, the Government and Parliament consider Telecom a great industrial and employment heritage of the country. And they look at that enterprise as a legacy to be followed with due attention. (at 12.15 a.m.) (Following Sonego). However, while we are making these statements, we must encourage Telecom to take up the challenge of innovation and not to perceive the general interest that lies in that ultra-wide band plan as a threat to itself. We, even with today's debate, must encourage the Government to move forward with great determination on that level, as, moreover, it seems to me that this is happening precisely in these hours at the initiative of the Government itself. That plan is very important and must be completed, and within it all private operators and all investors (including Telecom) must be offered the opportunity to grow, to innovate themselves and the connectivity infrastructure of the country, thus contributing to the overall growth of the nation. I conclude in a summary way: the plan is fine and the Government must consider with great attention the possibility to accompany him the presence of a universal and neutral public operator that manages the public network, offering to all the operators and private investors the possibility to develop and grow within the framework of the government strategy. On the basis of these coordinates, we can significantly improve and increase the social and economic competitiveness of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Cioffi and Scibona.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u76	I greet professors and students of the Technical Institute of Commerce (Federico Cesi) in Terni, who are attending our work from the forums. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u77	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, undersecretary Giacomelli, a debate like this certainly does not have a decisive purpose, but I think it is very important because it demonstrates the awareness of Parliament (in this case the Senate) of the need to give a boost to a process of modernization. We know that broadband deployment is a primary need and we have all tried, even in the various functions that have happened to some of us to cover, to stimulate. I remember, in the phase in which I had the honour of having the responsibility of the then Ministry of Communications (now reabsorbed within the Ministry of Production), to have introduced the first phases of WiFi technology, which was then still unknown to the most. We began a process that then continued, not without difficulty, over the years, and often also disputes about the use of frequencies with the military world, with a whole series of relapses and problems, even of a technical nature, that we propose in the wider field of communications. We've made efforts. The establishment of Infratel dates back to that phase, an initiative that, through the Government and other public structures, has tried to address the problem of broadband penetration since then where there are no market conveniences. The process of modernising networks in our country has long since begun. The problem is areas with lower economic growth where, of course, proven companies do not have a stimulus. What's the problem? It is the use of public resources, which - and here I address to the Undersecretary Giacomelli - have already been allocated for a long time and often - I do not reveal a secret - have then been reallocated to the chapters of the following years. In theory, therefore, we are always witnessing announcements of mega investments. It has been more than ten years now, but when we proposed the constitution of Infratel there was the Ministry of Economy that made available the resources. Since there are always emergencies, urgency or difficulties in the management of public resources, the trick is to postpone the three-year programmes by one year, so the figures have always been posted but their concrete delivery has always been tiring, painful and, at best, partial. We now need to improve the mechanisms for the use of Community resources. There is also the need - I face the issue with realism - to combine the role of the main incumbent operator of our country with the other realities. You see, Telecom is an important and historical protagonist of our economic and productive life, often it has been a flywheel of development and often it has been, in the stages of his life a bit more confused, also a reason to brake (we have to tell us). Telecom's problem in recent years has been the lack of clear ownership of strategic decisions; that is the truth. In recent times, decisions have been taken concerning market developments and it is certainly not Parliament, with motions or even the government, that can decide on a set-up. There is no doubt, however, that being the main operator is an aspect which, with an act of realism, regulators and political authorities also have to consider in some way, in an open market and free competition. The telecommunications market, fixed and mobile, has been very open in recent years, indeed, we are probably now witnessing a reverse process of consolidation, because then the market can be opened, but if the initiatives are too many they do not have the possibility to have a concrete and real growth and then, then, the market alters to the reverse with a proliferation of subjects that do not have the ability to guarantee a service in the long perspective. I could cite many episodes of operators, both in mobile and in the fixed, who are born and disappeared, leaving on the field, often, a series of problems. We must therefore respect the roles of the main players, but they must clarify their ideas. Sometimes this could also happen in political fora, as I heard earlier mention of meetings held in some part-session recently, but in the end decisions must go through transparent and verifiable acts, submitted to the regulators not only internal but also international; all this at a time when convergence always becomes a more real factor. This factor was announced many years ago but today, with the diffusion of the most advanced technologies (we see how the Internet arrives on television and vice versa) it is an increasingly widespread experience that must lead to maintaining realistic positions even in the discussions that concern the organization of the Italian television system because those that once seemed to be giants that could create conditioning in our market today in reality, everyone, nobody excluded, risk being questioned by new offers, new proposals and new operators. Let's think about what is expected in the world of television with the arrival of Netflix who also needs networks. They're changing a lot. We have to look at our market with less provincialism. I hope that the debate will continue on other sides without ideological blinds that would be self-injury because we must hope that Italian public and private companies, television, telecommunications or Italian history, because in some cases we must also use this term of global openness, can survive in this context of increasingly fierce competition. In this respect, I believe that the stimulus to broadband deployment processes is important. The Government will certainly have the opportunity, in response, to talk to us about all the initiatives announced. You see, ladies and gentlemen, I say this with realism, multi-billion-dollar investment programmes have been announced for years, but if we did a quick press review and gathered together the pages of the newspapers announcing these plans, we would see that over the years they are the same. The billions are often the same, as are the announcements of interventions from European funds. Governments have alternated, they have changed, there has been undoubted progress in the field of communications. After all, we are the nation of Guglielmo Marconi and therefore we must not feel subalternous to anyone; the world would not have what it has if Italian genius had not allowed historical progress. Therefore, we must rationalise the use of resources, become more aware of the centrality of broadband development, understand that public-private synergy is essential and visit public corporate tools to understand if they are still useful and topical and we must also stimulate private operators. I therefore hope that the conclusion of this parliamentary debate will be as "unitarian" as possible, because it is a debate on principles and guidelines that would be desirable. But this will be the task of the rapporteur and of the proposers of the different motions to identify a unique and convergent direction, able to give the Government greater strength and stimulus and to allow Italy to better live these processes of modernization. What this means in terms of economic development and employment is useless to say. For a country that is very focused on the tourist offer and artistic heritage to be more and more connected on the net means making the Italian product more attractive, if we want to call it; even if the term "product" is reductive when we talk about tourism and culture, which first have to travel on the net and then be affordable through the networks themselves in terms of travel, mobility, air transport and enjoyment, understood as an advance knowledge capable of attracting tourists to our country. This resource, of course, is not only about this aspect. Broadband is needed to reduce the costs of public administrations, to reduce health expectations or even to facilitate remote surveys and information exchange. All this is known and archaeological and somehow is entering more and more into the habits and cognition of all. I believe that generational change can also help this transformation. It will be very difficult for generations accustomed to a certain type of enjoyment to change their outlook. Undersecretary Giacomelli has already come to this House to discuss the closure of certain post offices and we have heard that there is a part of the population who, while being able to benefit from the same services with different technologies (to which some may not have access), considers the queue in the post a way to socialize. Therefore, although we will have to carry out more intensive programs of technological literacy, there is no doubt that generational change will become another key element. In fact, the generations of the digital natives will become increasingly familiar with the network and will therefore feel the need for a service that in terms of quality, timing and coverage has the level that a great nation like Italy can not fail to have. I therefore hope that the debate on motions, which in general in Parliament represent more than anything an act of moral value and a stimulus than a decision (and we know that) can also be useful in allowing the full success of initiatives announced several times, in part carried out by the various governments, and today in need of a very strong driving force. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u79	We greet the mayor and the delegation of the Municipality of Moscufo, in the province of Pescara, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u80	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u81	Mr President, we are discussing a fundamental issue here. We are experiencing the third industrial revolution - and history books will write about it - and broadband is the heart of this third industrial revolution. Digitalizing a country has epochal effects. I believe that our country has a huge, immense opportunity: to hold industrial policies together - because we are talking about this -, investment policies and to influence the most important and difficult issue of our country, that is, the issue of employment. I believe that the investment plan - and this is well contained in the Ranucci motion - must go hand in hand with a great plan of active policies on how many people can find work in this key sector. There is no other sector capable of receiving so much employment. We could get the most employment. Some companies calculate about 25,000 employees in the first year. Moreover, as European investment will be guaranteed for five years, it will be stable employment. Let us think about how much employment the pipeline and services can produce in this area. All this must be accompanied by a great plan of qualification, retraining, development of skills and professionalism both of young people and of those who now work in sectors which, alas, also provide for expulsion from the labour market. I am thinking, for example, of the construction sector. (at 12.29 a.m.) So, Mr Undersecretary, we will have to decide how to direct investments, especially additional ones, and how to make the digital highways that are being built in South Italy accessible. We could think of directing investment towards a large digitalisation plan for all Italian schools, which is present in some European countries. I do not want to go back to discussing negative unemployment figures again in six months' time. I think we should instead come back here - in six or eight months: let's give ourselves a term - to say that the innovative and competitive development of our country is accompanied by a great development of work. I think we should concentrate all our efforts on this, because - I repeat - we have a great opportunity to keep development and employment together. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u82	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u83	I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u84	Mr President, I propose that more than replying, I should like to put together the points, which seem to me all in all to be marked by a dignified feeling, expressed - as it is right and logical - by the various groups with different accents, nuances and analyses. However, it seems to me that no one doubts how strategic it is for the development of the country the investment on the digital revolution, that from the point of view of the policies, it covers different phases and different realities. What we are particularly concerned with, as the motions put forward call for, is the infrastructure aspect, its capacity and the adaptation of our network and the band at least to the levels that Europe indicates as necessary for development. Then there is a cultural theme in the country, of which I have heard the echo in many interventions: if as we define it strategic, we continue to decline that of digital as a sectoral aspect, we would totally mistake the analysis. What is happening in the world about the explosion of the potential of the network is a revolution that transforms the productive world as a whole, institutions, social relations, culture and tourism. That is, it transforms life, just as we have been accustomed to conceiving it. We must then start from a statement of truth: on this aspect our country has a considerable delay. I would like to use the term "humiliante" to make even better the idea of how burning the impact of the comparison with other European countries and with the points of excellence that, at international level, are constantly offered to our operators, our companies and those who made the network their business and activity bet. From what I have said here, therefore, it seems to me that I have to take into account essentially the position of the Government on certain issues, the first of which concerns the national plan of the ultra-wide band. I remind myself of this and I share it with you: the simple fact that a national plan has been launched is a new fact. Until yesterday what characterized our country was the sum of the regional operational plans (POR). And the first objection the European Community constantly made to our country was the absence of a national strategic vision. Then, the coordination of the different competences and the unification of the different contributions have made it possible for Italy to have a national plan, which is ambitious. Today it is used to say "challenging": I do not know if the term makes the idea; I like the ambitious term because it indicates the assumption of responsibility and commitment of a country with respect to fundamental choices for its future. The European objectives are assumed here and declined through a reading of the country divided into more than 90,000 sub-areas, grouped in clusters according to the different infrastructure and the different reading of the market. What tools does the Government plan provide for the implementation of the infrastructure? Let me say that - as President Gasparri has said - I believe that I do not disappoint anyone, but I do not believe that this is the place, neither in the prerogatives that concern me, to discuss the different possibilities of corporate mergers or agreements between market players. There is no dirigist vision in us, nor much less do we think that, after having chosen, long ago, the path of privatization of the incumbent, is now the time to enter a sector, that exactly of the market, which is not the responsibility of the Government. So I have listened to the various comments that have been made. I have to say that I do not find it scandalous that parliamentary groups, political forces, organise moments of discussion and discussion of a subject that is complex and I now declare that, as far as I am concerned, as I have done so far, I am fully prepared to take part in initiatives of this kind. All this always with the awareness that there are prerogatives of the Government and there are spaces that, in my opinion, do not compete for politics and in any case do not compete for the Government. Therefore, all this part of this morning's reflection for me is merely the acquisition of opinions, which I respect and listen to, but on which I obviously do not speak. If anything, I just note, taking up here a solicitation of Senator Sonego precisely on this, that he has made an organic and explicit reasoning, that it would be interesting - and perhaps a country should do so - to evaluate, after twenty years, the effects of the choice made then to privatise the incumbent. This is not to rewrite history or to go back or to rewind the tape, but as a necessary act of evaluation of a strategic choice and also as a reflection for the future. Of course, there are many opinions; it seems to me that the objectives were to accentuate competition and competitiveness, also in the infrastructural dimension; to enhance a dynamism that would have led, in intent, Italy to the vanguard in the investments and in the infrastructural endowment; to save public money and favor the protagonism of the market; to favor the emergence of Italian protagonists, capable, with their investments and their contribution, to create wealth, opportunities, development. These were the premises then and perhaps it would not be wrong for the country as a whole to reflect on what happened. Italy, of course, in the privatisation of Telecom was so far-sighted that still countries like France and Germany did not have the time to follow this profound intuition and remain anchored to choices of a different type. However, since we cannot rewind that tape - nor do we want to do it - we are called upon to intervene with the instruments given by the agreements and rules of the Community and the conditions, therefore, of a market in which private parties are involved. Compared to this, there are instruments that are already notified in Brussels and are already, in some way, co-financed and active. I am thinking of the regional funds, which have been mentioned. Senator Orellana, in particular, seems to me to have asked from this point of view, and the figures he gave correspond. Not only are those resources of rural funds and regional funds available, but I must say that the regions, in a new shared national strategy, have shown awareness of how strategic this investment is and have shown willingness to co-finance. Of course, it happens that some regions that fall within it, in particular those of the South, are from this point of view favored in a digital divide this time realized on the contrary, while on others obviously this type of instrument shows more difficulties. That is why we in the Development and Cohesion Fund have allocated an important figure for 2017 which I believe is more than five billion. What Senator Orellana referred to in his speech is the availability that we acquired, before the Juncker plan, by the EIB to play a guarantee role that allows us to update those resources and make them available immediately. The EIB, in its relationship with governments and states, has shown its willingness to play a role in these objectives so that we can put those resources in place right away. However, putting them on the ground, as is clear, does not mean having them immediately expendable, but not for that mechanism to which President Gasparri referred, that is, the vocation to reallocation of resources, but simply because - of course - innovative instruments such as tax credit, voucher, guarantee fund, must pass the notification procedure to Brussels and this is what the Government intends to do. Therefore, to the resources identified and to the traditional instruments we add new instruments that are more effective and that will be operational immediately after Brussels has declared them compatible with the European regulatory regime. The Juncker plan is certainly the point to which many hopes and readings turn. I think that we could not ignore it, but the Italian strategy does not depend on how much the Juncker plan will intervene with respect to the processes of digital infrastructure, although certainly a Juncker plan that had clear vision, tools and resources would be a formidable accelerator not only for Italy. This is a possibility to which, as is well known, the Government is working and on which it counts, but the strategy does not depend on it. In my opinion, in a few weeks with a decree (which is in preparation) we will have to clarify these instruments and start the notification process in Brussels, after which they will be fully operational. In the meantime, however, the plan is not firm, because with the regional instruments important initiatives are being carried out in the areas of market failure, as is said with a very bad expression. I would not like it to be just my feeling, but the plan is not firm, because since it was launched, since it was discussed, it seems to me that every private operator, starting with the incumbent, has reread and revise its industrial project, its objectives, its investment plan. It is no coincidence that, compared to what I said earlier, we need to slow down by a month in order to reopen the consultation with the operators, exactly at the request of Telecom, which has formally announced that it wants to expand its investment plan and therefore to make it known so that the Government takes this into account in defining the areas. I believe that the plan is a great tool throughout the country and that the instruments are there as well as public resources. Of course, as Senator Crosio said in his speech, it is essential that private operators are also able to measure their new audacity, which is ability to invest and not simply read the present, but ability to read what happens. Senator Sonego is right in saying that there is no threat, but an invitation to adapt to new challenges. I would also like to read, as well as in the interviews in the newspapers even in official government acts, ambitious investment plans of all operators. The Government is ready to play its part if the plans of private operators will be in line with the ambitions and needs of the country. We do not favour any aggregation and no process of fusion, separation, alliance; we respect a space that is not ours; however, I want to say here, with all the clarity of the case, that the Government respects spaces that are not own, but has all the intention to use all its prerogatives so that obstacles to the realization of the plan are not placed, which is fundamental for the country. In addition, no private interest, however legitimate, can imagine opposing and hoping for the government's abstention or neutrality. On the other hand, if the operators will - as I believe - be able to put their private business in harmony with the national plan that looks to the interest of the country, the government and - I am sure - Parliament and the institutions are all ready to do their part to the full in support, programming, planning, making courageous choices about incentives that accompany the private initiative. It seems to me that this is the spirit in which, at this moment of verification in the authoritative seat of the Senate, we face these first steps of the Italian national plan, measuring with satisfaction how the judgments of private operators, observers and the European Union are all positive and encouraging. Many consider it ambitious. Some use more pessimistic adjectives. We think it is a realistic and necessary plan: that everyone, starting with the private, should play their part, and not wait for others to do what is necessary. It seems to me that I have found in this debate, in particular in the illustration of motion 76 (text 2), made by Senator Ranucci, exactly this point and this spirit: the ability to put together the role of determination of industrial policies, which is up to the Government, the role of authorities, which have the task of indicating exactly the conditions that we cannot ignore, but also the role of the market. This country has made a challenging choice, which other important European countries have not made. This choice presupposes that the market and those who are continuously heralds and protagonists demonstrate that they are able to meet the expectations of the country. To the realization of this infrastructure, in fact, are linked the hopes of development and growth of the Country, more than any other choice. We placed it as a central choice and wanted Palazzo Chigi to coordinate the plan to give this signal. The first steps are there. Steps must be speeded up and others encouraged to do so. However, taking up what Senator Parente said and perhaps some other colleagues, let's give ourselves a periodicity of appointments to verify the process. I welcome this proposal, if this will be the choice of the Senate, with pleasure and favor. Senator Gasparri said before that these acts, the motions, can have a different degree of importance in institutions and, sometimes, can be little more than symbolic. However, there are topics, such as this, where in reality the great attention of the institutions and the fact of placing this topic at the centre of the work of the parliamentary institutions helps the process and underlines the importance of it demonstrating a common feeling of the country and its political representation; therefore, in cases such as these they are an instrument of great importance and also of great effectiveness. From this point of view, therefore, I am fully prepared to continue with a work in the Commission or in this House, as you think, which will accompany the development of the implementation of the plan. If the President agrees now, I proceed to the expression of the Government's opinion on motions, starting with the first signature of Senator Ranucci, No. 76 (text 2). As I said in my speech, I find the illustration of this motion to be consistent with my statements. Therefore, I would not have, in relation to the commitments proposed by the motion, to declare them all acceptable and therefore to express a positive opinion, overall, on the motion. Regarding motion 336 (text 2), first signed by Senator Crosio, appreciating the reflection (to which I mentioned) that the Senator made in his illustration on the ability to grasp the aspect of the role of operators as central to a realization of the plan that sets the goal of collaboration between public and private, and gathering the invitation not to be shy or hesitant, invitation to which I tried to correspond in the determination of instruments and resources, I express an opinion contrary to some points. I am against points 1 and 9 for the reasons I have said: of course this is not a personal opinion, but a respect for the prerogatives and role of the Government, which cannot consist in intervening within the choices and dimensions that belong to the market. On the other hand, I give a favourable opinion on points 2, 3, 4 and 5 of motion 336 and against point 6, not because it does not understand the meaning of that call to take account of the role of network operators in the local area, but because, compared to procedures that must be in fact competitive, this could be seen as an improper intervention compared to selection criteria. Of course, however, I understand all the political value of the reflection that this point proposes. I would also propose to Senator Crosio the following rewording of point 7: "to encourage research and any alternative application for the full implementation of the National Ultrawide Band Plan." I would propose the rewording of point 8 by adopting the following formula: It considers priority, in relation to the complex of interventions aimed at supporting the revival of the country's economy, the aim of ensuring, through the National Ultra-wide Band Plan, a high transmission capacity, not only in the main cities and industrial districts, but also in the entire country. I have already spoken about point 9, while on point 10 I would propose the following rewording: • to promote and encourage a progressive and agreed migration of users to new generation fibre networks •. Point 11), basically in the initial part, could be reworded as follows: "to quickly implement the themes of an organic Digital Agenda" and to follow the rest of the original text. The opinion is in favour of point 12), while point 13) I would propose the following rewording: "to provide for technological neutrality for the use of spectrum in order to optimize its use, thereby contributing to the achievement of the objectives of the Plan, as well as making the same use of the same remuneration for the State". As regards motion 366, first signed by Senator Cioffi, of course I refer to the reworded text (text 2). Of points 1) and 2) I propose the merger in a single point that would act as follows: to implement the strategic ultra-wide band plan approved by the Council of Ministers on 3 March for the realization of the ultra-wide band, ensuring that the development of the new networks actually meets the needs of connectivity of the country and allows the full achievement of digital and social inclusion. There is a contrary view, for the reasons I have already said and which I do not repeat, on point 3 because of the fact that the formation of new companies or the merger of existing companies is clearly involved. There is also a proposal for the rewording of point 4 of the operative part, of this content: It ensures the effective mapping in certain times of all the infrastructures of the below and aboveground functional broadband and ultra-wide present in the national territory, also in order to minimize the environmental impact and the costs of implementation, as defined in the guidelines for the national information system federato of the above and underground contained in the strategic plan ultra-wide band approved by the Council of Ministers on 3 March 2015 and to adopt in short time the technical rules for the definition of the content of the national information system federato of the infrastructures, referred to in article 6-a of the decree-law 12 September 2014, n. 133, converted, with modifications, from the law 11 November 2014, n. 164. In point 5, I propose the following rewording: "to implement the strategic ultra-wide band plan approved by the Council of Ministers on 3 March for the implementation of the ultra-wide band." In point 6, I propose the following rewording: "to ensure the constant monitoring and coordination of the ministerial structures involved in the implementation of the provisions on the Italian Digital Agenda." In point 7, I propose the following rewording: "to assess with due care in the implementation of the Plan all the indications of the competent guarantee authorities". As far as motion 410 is concerned, first signed by Senator Orellana, I must say first of all that I have appreciated his speech, in its approach and in the deepening of points that I too consider key points; I also find in his motion a spirit that can be accepted in an overall way. Of course, some rewordings, from my point of view, help to make the text clearer and more acceptable. In particular, in point 1, I propose the following rewording: "to provide Parliament periodically with clarifications on the economic appropriations planned and actually available, the modalities and the delivery times for the realization of the digital development of the country". On point 2, I am in favour. In point 3) I propose the following rewording: "to implement rapidly, as decided by the Council of Ministers, the new, streamlined model of governance which, as far as..." (the rest of the paragraph remains unchanged). In point 4) I propose, in its incipit, to replace the words "to adopt promptly" with the other "to strengthen and accelerate". I repeat that I find here a reading and a harmony with the Government's point of view, which I believe must be emphasized. With regard to motion 411, first signed by Senator Paolo Romani, point 1 is somewhat embarrassing, in the sense that it is fully acceptable, but in our opinion it has resulted in the presentation of the Plan and the approval of the Council of Ministers. I would say that the opinion is in favour, if it is understandable that for us it is not a commitment to an act to be put in place, but a statement of the fact that in some way the Plan implements this commitment. In point 2, I propose the following rewording: "to take action to ensure that the European Structural Funds are also used in support of the actions needed to develop broadband and ultra-wide on wireless and wireless networks, including in the above-mentioned market failure areas." On point 3 I give a favourable opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, Mr Undersecretary, on point 2, I did not understand the rewording of what it would consist of. Mr GIACOMELLI, State Secretary for Economic Development. I repeat: "to take action to ensure that the European Structural Funds are also used to support the actions needed to develop broadband and ultra-wide on wireless and wireless networks, including in the above-mentioned market failure areas" (in the definition of the points on which support measures should be concentrated). On paragraph 3, I repeat, I am in favour of and against point 4, which provides for the establishment of a State-owned company (for the reasons already mentioned I cannot support). On point 5, I then propose the following rewording: "to ensure the constant monitoring and coordination of the ministerial structures involved in the implementation of the provisions on the Italian Digital Agenda." On point 6, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u85	On paragraph 1, the opinion was therefore favourable to the extent that it was a confirmation of a plan already put in place; it was more a matter of meaning than of speech. At this point we had opinions and it is now 13 o'clock. I would therefore like to refer to the continuation of the debate on motions for a further sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-443.ana.u86	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 1.05 p.m.
