ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-396.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-396.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-396.ana.u3	The next item is the question and questions. It will be carried out first the questioning 2-00091 on the center of identification and expulsion of Gradisca d'Isonzo, in the province of Gorizia. I call Senator Manconi to illustrate this interrogation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-396.ana.u4	Madam President, representative of the Government, senators and senators, today the Government responds to my questioning and I am delighted, but I cannot fail to make an important point, in my opinion: this answer comes exactly 469 days after the presentation of my questioning. I believe that this does not correspond to an attitude of hostility towards me, but, unfortunately, to a general situation that concerns the inspection union, the extreme slowness and the equally extreme deficiency compared to this crucial function of parliamentary activity, on which I have long drawn the attention of this House, urging precise and punctual monitoring that, just today, I was able to be in the process of realization. We could therefore have a statistical survey in the next few days which will give us the measure of this factor, in my view, of extreme weakness in the functioning of our institution and our institutions. To say how much a delay of 469 days compared to the presentation of an act of inspection union can be a really critical factor, I remember that at the origin of my questioning there was, among other things, a tragic fact, namely the death of a person detained in the center of identification and expulsion of Gradisca d'Isonzo, fact that had evidenced a situation of that center, in which they manifested various, differentiated and often acute criticalities. In order to enter into the substance of my questioning, I would like to make one very brief premise. The Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, which I chair, in its approximately 18 months of activity, has carried out a long, detailed and detailed investigation of the identification and expulsion centres, visiting them all and carrying out numerous hearings of officials of the administration, of magistrates working in this field, even of a person already detained in a CIE, of operators, of representatives of the Government and of the Department of Immigration. At the end of this long work of investigation we have produced a report, which has been approved by the Commission and which is available to all those interested in it. This work therefore allows us to talk about the centres of identification and expulsion, starting from an overall reality, which in recent years has undergone very profound transformations. I want to remember, limiting myself to two essential data, that while in 2008, overall, those who had passed through the centers of identification and expulsion combined to a figure around 10,000 units, in the course of 2014 this figure has drastically reduced, that is, it has literally halved. I would also remind you that over the years there has been a figure which has remained unchanged, i.e. that relating to the attainment of the first aim pursued by the establishment of such centres, i.e. the practices relating to the identification and subsequent expulsion of aliens held there. In all these years, the number of those who, after a variable period of stay in the centers, were identified and expelled never exceeded half of the total universe of the detained. In this data there is already the unequivocal sign, if not of a failure, of an evident impotence of this institute to achieve the purpose for which it was established. I am talking about this because I believe it is necessary to highlight the lack of success of centres which in two other respects have an even more negative balance. I am referring to the economic profile, because the often important costs of the centres do not have as a result an effectiveness with respect to the pursuit of the objective, and, even more delicately, because within these centres, as the Commission chaired by me was able to document, the level of protection of fundamental human rights is extremely poor. In fact, this protection has particularly dramatic areas of darkness, with violations in some cases systematic of fundamental rights, as well as a general condition of abrasion of people who find themselves within a structure of which they ignore the rules, the language spoken to them, often the reason why they are held there and, even more often, the fate that will follow at that detention. I add one more fact that seems extremely serious: the presumed capacity of the overall universe of the identification and expulsion centers should be - so it has been estimated - around 1,700 units; the real one, of places actually available, drops drastically over half and today the total presences in the five CIEs still active vary between 400 and 500 held and so it was during 2014. I believe that all these considerations lead to a clear reflection which necessarily leads to recognition of the superfluous nature of these institutions. Institutes of uncertain legal status, extremely expensive, largely ineffective in relation to the purpose, dramatically damaging the human rights of the people held there. I conclude this illustration by highlighting some of the data that my questioning presented. It asked whether the identification and expulsion centre of Gradisca d'Isonzo, in the province of Gorizia, then suspended in its activity, was intended for final closure. Well, I personally still do not know this fact, i.e. if that CIE is not working it is to be considered definitively closed. On the basis of the work carried out by our Commission, which had highlighted the need to make these centres observable, recognizable, therefore destined for maximum transparency and also for maximum vigilance, in particular on the protection of human rights for persons detained, as highlighted by many international organisations, I asked a second question. I was wondering whether progress could be made on this point according to the direction that our Commission had suggested in the case of the reform of the fire regulation. In December last year the new access regulation entered into force, which marks a few steps forward, leaving a hole in my opinion, for a verse, poorly explained and, on the other hand, a very critical one. Access to the identification and expulsion centres shall not be allowed to the mayor of the place where that centre is located, nor to the members of the junta and the municipal councillors of that territory. I think it is an extremely serious limit, because the life of that centre has an extremely close relationship with the life of the territory and the relationship with the local administration, which on that territory has the possibility to exercise not only a government activity, but also a control activity.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-396.ana.u5	Before giving the floor for the reply to the Under-Secretary of State, I would like to stress the validity of the question posed by Senator Manconi in relation to the procedures for exercising the function of inspection and control union, which is an essential part of the function of Parliament and the Senate. Certainly, the time with which the answers are activated, both because perhaps little space is given to these tools of inspection union, and for other causes of delay, prevent the effectiveness of these instruments. I believe that this issue must be addressed together with the Government, including through a more effective application of the rules, where cooperation should not always work. In any case, I believe that this issue should be examined in the collegial bodies of the Senate and I thank Senator Manconi for having placed it. The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-396.ana.u6	Madam President, first of all I would like to clear the field of doubts about the alleged 'hostile' attitude on the part of the Government towards President Manconi, let alone with regard to the legal means used, on which, on the contrary, I agree with the President that, if examined more quickly, it could probably produce forms of cooperation and cooperation between the Government and Parliament which are far more profitable. Objectively, it is necessary to acknowledge Senator Manconi that the facts date back in time. The questioning refers, in fact, to a story that affected the CIE of Gradisca d'Isonzo, which suffered damage during the disturbances that occurred between 30 October and 2 November 2013, when some of the foreigners detained there caused a fire in an attempt to escape. Since November 8 of the same year, then since 2013, the operation of the center has been suspended, waiting for the extraordinary maintenance necessary for the restoration of the functionality of the structure, interventions now in the process of completion. Recently, the prefect of Gorizia, due to the lack of alternative solutions, has arranged the use of an already accessible part of the center to temporarily accommodate about 40 migrants - or asylum seekers, if you prefer, since the latter are in a clearly predominant number during this period - in reception and not detention arrangements. With regard to the more general question of the current CIE system, I would like to point out that there are only five centres currently in operation and are located in Bari, Caltanissetta, Rome, Turin and Trapani-Milo. To date, some 306 foreigners are being detained in these countries for the purpose of expulsion. The structures still appear necessary, in different respects, to the management of irregular immigration and, in the state, it is not in the horizon of the Government their radical overcoming, rather it is thought of the revision of those modalities of operation that can be of impediment to the ordinary livability of the kept foreigners. In this respect, a number of measures have been taken, both regulatory and administrative. European law 2013- bis, as the Senators know better than I do, since some changes to the maximum period of detention in the IEC have been made in this House, following amendments tabled, if I recall correctly, by Senator Manconi, has drastically reduced to 90 days the maximum period of detention, thereby giving a concrete response to one of the aspects of greater problematicity and delicacy, namely that of the prolonged stay in such structures, lived by the foreigner with a sense of frustrating, sometimes, episodes of violence and self-harm. On the other hand, on the side of identifying the foreigner, making it possible to identify foreigners who have already been detained on entry into prisons, it is possible to avoid or in any case reduce as much as possible the need for a subsequent passage into the CIEs, thus avoiding the automatic passage between prison structures and prison structures, even of an administrative type. At the administrative level, I also inform you that the single regulation for the functioning of the IECs has recently been adopted, which I believe is an important step on the road to uniform rules and reception levels in the structures established on national territory. In order to ensure respect for the fundamental principles of freedom and dignity of the person, the measure also includes a Charter of Rights and Obligations, which is expected to be handed over to the foreigner at the time of access to the structure. This card establishes, among others, the right to be informed, to express oneself in one's own language or in another known, freedom of worship and freedom of correspondence in letters and telephones. The single regulation also responds to another issue raised in the text of the question, namely access to facilities. In fact, the measure, realizing a fair contemperation between the right to privacy, the requirements of order and public security and those of transparency, identifies a wide audience of qualified subjects and, at the same time, regulates both the administrative procedures that the prefectures must adopt in order to grant the authorization to access in the cases in which it is prescribed, and the standardized modalities for the conduct of the visits. As regards, in particular, the access of the media, already for some time, on the basis of specific directives, admission to the most diverse newspapers, national and foreign, to allow the filming of the structures, interviewing the staff of the managing bodies and foreigners. The above considerations allow me to conclude that the Government devotes constant attention and impetus to the transparency and efficiency of the activities of the centres in question, with a view to prioritising respect for the principles of personal protection enshrined in the international conventions signed by Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-396.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-396.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-396.ana.u9	Mr Manconi (PD). Madam President, first of all I would like to thank the Under-Secretary of State for his work. I believe that the given figure is a decisive factor in the reasoning that has been pursued here. Today, if I understood correctly, 306 people are present in the identification and expulsion centers and this corresponds to a trend of constant and accelerated decline, uninterruptedly in place from the early years of 2000 to today. We are talking - this is the point - about a residual institution, which performs an even more decisively residual function. The punctual, precise and accurate application of the so-called circular Chancellors, if I am not mistaken, of December 2013, which precisely provides for the anticipation of the procedure relating to the identification within the prison in which the foreigner is to serve his own sentence, would render even more irrisory the number of people forced to this sort of ancillary penalty, to be served once the penalty provided for by the sentence suffered. This, in my opinion, once again underlines the superfluous nature of this machinery of coercion, of this instrument of detention with uncertain legal bases, with a considerable economic cost and, above all, capable of damaging in depth those fundamental rights of the person to whom we must all hold as the most precious asset. Finally, the Undersecretary did not respond to a small parenthesis I highlighted, on the failure to foresee the possibility of access to the centers for mayors of the territories where the CIE is located. This leads to the view that the error is going to be corrected or that it is going to be decided that the IECs should be definitively abolished and that there is no need for access to it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-396.ana.u10	Following is the question 3-01217 on the protection system for asylum seekers and refugees. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-396.ana.u11	Madam President, with the question on the agenda, Senator Fasiolo, drawing on the situation of the province of Gorizia, which is objectively affected by a massive flow of foreign citizens, raises a number of questions concerning the national system of reception of migrants and the network of territorial Commissions for the recognition of international protection. The necessary premise is that the exceptional migratory flows of these years, through the Mediterranean and Balkan routes, have led the Ministry of the Interior to rethink the whole system of reception, putting hand to its governance and strengthening the system of protection of asylum seekers and refugees (SPRAR), which has actually been increased to 20,000 places. The review of governance has been implemented through a National Operational Plan on which the Unified Conference agreed at its meeting on 10 July 2014. The innovative scope of this document lies in the participation to regime in the management of migratory flows of the three levels of government of the Country: State, Regions and Municipalities. The representations of these entities have decided to share, in a proportional way and according to predefined parameters on the territory, the burdens of the reception of migrants through a screening that is realized in governmental structures called hubs, not all existing but being realized, specifically identified in each Region. Those who are entitled to international protection are then initiated into the SPRAR system, which is managed by the municipalities instead. In the past, humanitarian crises that are not comparable in any way to what we are living, have been managed in an emerging logic, i.e. by using the instruments proper to civil protection. This has not always produced good results. The choice we made with the national operational plan is allowing us, although at a stage of particular migratory impact, to build a stable reception system, sharing the burdens throughout the national territory and thus mitigating the social impact. This choice, we are convinced, will also help us in the process of integration of foreigners who will remain in Italy. For the implementation of the measures provided for in the Plan a periodic consultation was started through a national coordination table at the Ministry of the Interior and regional tables presided over by the prefects of the capitals of the Region, the one and the other open to the participation of the representatives of the territorial autonomy. As for the strengthening of the reception system in its various declinations, I remember that in recent years the capacity of the SPRAR has been expanded several times. There are currently 20.752 places available throughout the country, of which 849 are intended for unaccompanied foreign minors, whether or not they are asylum seekers. In addition, with regard to unaccompanied minors, further legislation is being implemented which should lead to their protection as minors and no longer as minors for asylum seekers. I would also like to point out that, precisely in the sense advocated by Senator Fasiolo, the Government has also taken steps to address the exponential increase in international protection. In 2014, 64,886 asylum applications were submitted against 26,620 applications submitted in 2013. In relation to this situation, in November both the committees and the relevant sections were ordered to double, bringing the total number from 20 to 40. In this context, the territorial commission of Verona, competent to know the applications submitted in Trentino-Alto Adige and in the provinces of Verona, Vicenza, Treviso and Belluno, and the section of Padua, with competence for the provinces of Padua, Venice and Rovigo, were also established. The Gorizia Commission will therefore remain competent only for applications submitted in Friuli-Venezia Giulia. As far as the CIE of Gradisca d'Isonzo is concerned, I repeat that it has not been operational since 8 November 2013, as has been said, for the carrying out of restoration and safety work and that, in the blackberries, the prefect of Gorizia, due to the lack of other structures in the province, has arranged the transfer in an already accessible part of the center of about 40 immigrants, under reception and not detention regime. This is a temporary measure aimed at dealing with the flow of asylum seekers in the province which, although not reaching the peaks of the past months, is however constant: on average, every day, five new requests for international protection are presented to the police station, according to data reported to the Ministry of the Interior. On the desirability, represented by the questioner, to entrust to the local health companies the health care of the migrants received in the centers, I represent that, for asylum seekers, the single text of immigration already provides compulsory registration to the National Health Service, with consequent provision to them of the same benefits insured to the Italian citizens. The remaining categories of migrants received or detained in the centres are guaranteed, in accordance with the same single text, emergency outpatient and hospital care or, in any case, essential for illness and accident and, moreover, the preventive medical programmes to safeguard individual and collective health are extended. However, I would point out that the Ministry of the Interior is making a considerable effort to ensure that the right to the health of migrants is fully guaranteed within the centres in question. In this regard, the aforementioned ministerial regulation for the management of IECs issued recently, and the decree of the President of the Republic for the management of reception centres for asylum seekers, already signed by the Head of State and of imminent publication in the Official Journal, in detail disciplinary this aspect, have provided adequate levels of health care, while ensuring the protection of personal freedom and privacy of foreigners. In relation to the last question raised with the question, I would inform you that with three directives, issued in 2011 and two in 2013, the European Union has given further impetus to the creation of a single European asylum system based precisely on the introduction of uniform rules for the recognition of international protection and the related procedures. The first directive (No 95 of 2011) was transposed by Legislative Decree No 18 of 2014. In the law of European delegation 2013- bis it has been foreseen the transposition of the other two that, if I remember correctly, will take place by June, and in that place a further adjustment will be made.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-396.ana.u12	Madam President, I would like to thank the Secretary for his satisfactory reply. I must say that the confirmation of the strengthening of the effective operation of the territorial committees and sections, which I have already had and which you have confirmed to this day, will lead to a lightening of the burden of requests so far borne by the few committees at national level. This will mean dealing more easily with the enormous migratory flow to our country, easing in particular the disposal of applications. Compared to other considerations, I must say that I am also satisfied with his answers to the development of the widespread SPRAR network, characterized by positive experiences in various Italian municipalities. This is the direction that is being taken in this period also on our territories: not only closing and overcoming the CIE, but overcoming the CARA, because these people, these refugees, should truly become an active part of our territory and live in an integrated way in the social fabric. Another point that I think it is necessary to point out about SPRAR is that the relationship between the number of migrants and the territories should be closely linked to the density of the local population, thus avoiding concentrations in small localities, such as Gradisca d'Isonzo or Gorizia, which suffer from these situations. Hence the importance of the intervention of the Region also in this sense, and the hope that it will be spread in a wider regional or even interregional context. Therefore, SPRAR is a basic element for possible integration; in such a delicate period it is absolutely necessary to enhance these experiences. I take this opportunity to thank you, but above all to praise the various mayors who have taken charge of these needs, such as the mayors of Cormons, Farra d'Isonzo, Romans d'Isonzo, Gradisca d'Isonzo, Sagrado, Gorizia, Udine, Trieste and San Pier D'Isonzo and various countries that try to insert these people into their fabric. Of course, what would be absolutely important - and I would like to make an appeal to you in this regard - is to try to promote the undoing of certain barracks and, above all, of some houses. I had the opportunity to visit 27 buildings in Cormons and in the province, which would be to be used to welcome places and which are currently homes in decay, and it is a real shame. I am currently a military property. An emphasis. There are the operators of the CARA of Gradisca d'Isonzo, 70 employees of the consortium "Connecting People," who have repeatedly gone on strike because they have not paid for several months. They are families living in an unsustainable situation. If you think that the strike will be hiccups in the coming times, this will of course have some reverberations about its service to the immigrants of the CARA of Gradisca d'Isonzo. I would therefore ask you to pay particular attention to this. Another small suggestion I would like to make concerns the Dublin Unit, which operates in Rome and has very few people. It would be good to think of a widespread Dublin Unit, using the territorial committees (there are several of them) as operational segments that can refer to the Dublin Unit of Rome as a hub, as the central point of which they represent the hub. This is to make the identification service more efficient, effective, fast and prompt. Europol structures must also be strengthened. I heard the deputy director in Schengen the other day saying that it is poorly equipped with information from the various national police. We are therefore trying to make Europol work effectively too. The final point is that of the National Health Service, which is responsible for screening, monitoring the health conditions of immigrants. I would point out to you that there is a convention between the Red Cross and the National Health Service, but I would also suggest in this case to deepen the issue as the basic doctors of general medicine, especially the last recruits (they are doctors with very few users), could be used to follow in a rational way patients who need a check on even long times, because they are on the territory a year, rather than voluntary services.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-396.ana.u13	Question 300387 on the ban on smoking in prison follows. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-396.ana.u14	Madam President, the issue of how smoking legislation is applied in prisons has for many years been the subject of analysis by the Department of the penitentiary administration. By circular of June 13, 1994 () Smoking in the prison environment. Protection of non-smoking inmates, the Department invited the management of the institutions to place in separate cells prisoners who asked not to divide the room with smoking subjects, as well as to raise awareness of health personnel in order to expressly certify the presence of any pathologies that would not recommend exposure to passive smoke. With the subsequent 1996 circular on the organisation of the service "New arrivals," the Department then instructed the prison departments to take appropriate action to prevent the loss of passive smoke, which may be expected in the case of prisoners carrying heart, respiratory or allergic-type diseases. Finally, the Regulation implementing the penitentiary law (No 230 of 2000) provided for in Article 6 (7), which, if logistical conditions permit, non-smoking departments are insured. By Law No 3 of 2003, Article 51 extended the smoking ban to all closed rooms, including private or non-public workplaces. This ban therefore also applies to prison facilities, including administration offices and common areas. The law also provides for the possibility of making available closed rooms reserved for smokers, marked as such, provided that they are equipped with ventilation and air replacement systems that are regularly functioning, in accordance with the decree of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers of 23 December 2003. This being so, it should be borne in mind that prisons may differ considerably from one another in terms of building, so that the regulations adopted in the field of anti-smoking legislation may, in practice, differ significantly depending on the type of detention facility. In general, smoking is allowed in outdoor areas (sports fields and walking courtyards), while the smoking ban, currently in force, is called with specific billboard in the corridors adjacent to the prison areas, as well as in the common rooms (library, school classrooms, recreation and sports halls, interview rooms, clinics). The directors of the institutions, in their capacity as employers, are required to expressly indicate the staff responsible for ensuring compliance with the anti-smoking legislation and to ensure that infringements resulting from the violation of the relevant prohibition are detected and detected. The penitentiary departments are also required to identify, among the common areas, special areas for smokers, by making the necessary structural and plant adjustments (ventilation systems and air exchange). Sometimes, however, compliance with such an obligation runs counter to structural difficulties or the lack or lack of funds necessary to make the required adjustment. Given the current legislation, however, it should be pointed out that tobacco consumption is one of the so-called compensatory arrangements put in place by the excluded population in the face of the discomfort resulting from the state of material and psychological deprivation resulting from imprisonment. A drastic reduction in the possibility of smoking would, therefore, risk destabilizing effects. An important contribution and certainly without negative side effects, can be offered, instead, as well as from the interventions of a building nature, also from interventions of a health nature from the local health companies, through campaigns of awareness and information, addressed both to the population held, and to the prison staff. In order to achieve the objective of promoting the health of persons in custody and the health of the environment and of healthy living conditions by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 1 April 2008 - Annex A (with which the health services in prison matters have been transferred to the National Health Service) has been emphasized the need to activate actions of education and empowerment of prisoners, internees and minors subject to criminal proceedings against their own health, aimed at combating, among other things, also the habit of smoking. As for the promotion of the health of the environments, it is already planned and it has already been concretely realized that the Departments of penitentiary administration and juvenile justice must ensure, with appropriate programming, the maintenance of the sanitary standards provided for by the current legislation. Instead, it falls within the competence of the Departments for the prevention of local health companies to verify, through periodic inspection visits to each penitentiary located in the territory of competence and through standardised systems of detection, the sanitary requirements of all the environments, including the housing of the prison police and the state of the building structures, in relation to the building types and the housing standards provided by the aforementioned decree of the President of the Republic 30 June 2000, n. 230 and the current regional regulations on residential structures for adolescents.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-396.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-396.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-396.ana.u17	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have listened carefully to the Government's timely information. I note that the Undersecretary is kindly speaking on behalf of the Government. I recall that the question was addressed at the same time as the Minister of Health and the Minister of Justice. However, the Undersecretary has undertaken to attempt an overall response, which only partially satisfies me. Of course, the first question has an adequate response. Basically I verify that the Government is aware of the disapplication of the provisions that have been issued with special circulars, albeit dated, by the Department for the penitentiary administration. I believe that having established the progressive adaptation of the regulatory system to the requirements that have gradually, over time, represented themselves in terms of the protection of health, both of the operators and of the prisoners, has led the legislator to make the current provisions in this area evolve in an absolutely appropriate way. The Undersecretary also pointed out that Law No 3 of 16 January 2003 also applies to prison institutions. However, I do not find a positive and adequate response to the minimum expectations of the stakeholders, who have in this sense consulted, according to their own possibilities, the competent institutional bodies to respond to the measures that the Ministry intends to adopt. I would not like, that is, that, having established the regulatory system appropriate to the needs and verified the availability by the parties responsible for fulfilling a responsibility, then there is no verification with respect to the actual fulfillment. For example, is there an intake system in the cells provided for smokers? As a matter of fact, I regularly visit prisons (in my region, at least) and I don't think I've ever seen them. I realize that there is a clear disapplication. I do not want to embarrass the Undersecretary, but I would like him to be an interpreter to the Government of the need to be responsible for his duties and duties. In fact, I would find it really paradoxical that the final responsibility in this area falls on the employer, waiting that, already in itself, the latter is in a situation of objective and objective discomfort. Let's not forget that the employer, who is generally the director of the prison, must raise the fine for non-compliance with the smoking ban, even if indicated through special signs. I'd find that really paradoxical. I believe that rather the government must ask itself whether specific economic resources have been allocated to assign specific cells to prisoners who smoke and whether the local health companies have fulfilled their obligations also with regard to their own dues regarding compliance with the regulations. In this respect, I believe that it is useful and necessary for the Undersecretary to undertake to urge the Government, with the hope that it will have a positive effect on its intervention on a topic of particular importance, which can also become the subject of claims for damages. But what interests us most is the health protection profile, which must also be guaranteed in prisons. This reminds us, Madam President, of the note that in October 2013 the President of the Napolitano Republic sent to the Chambers, which sounded like a "frusted" to the conscience of Parliament, to take a substantial step forward in the levels of livability and dignity of the penitentiaries, who I believe draw a disconcerting and shameful photograph of our country. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-396.ana.u18	Following is question 3-01126 on the case of a former prison police officer. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-396.ana.u19	Madam President, in response to Senator Santangelo, I would like to point out that the necessary information was requested from the Department of the Penitentiary Administration on the matter described in the question. The investigation carried out shows that at the time of the events mentioned in the inspection the former prison police officer Giuseppe Picone served at the prison institute in Trapani. On 11 June 2004, in the course of the normal control activity at the second concierge of the prison department to which he had been assigned, the assistant Picone was approached by the head of the renovation work of the judicial section, in the person of the surveyor Leo Massimo, and by these asked to access the aforementioned department - temporarily closed for the maintenance work in progress - accompanied by a member of the Prison Police Corps and equipped with laptop and mobile phone, as necessary tools for the performance of his duties. To that request the Picone opposed its refusal, motivating it in reason of the order of service n. 175 of 24 June 2000 that establishes the absolute prohibition to introduce mobile phones beyond the first concierge, except for the magistrates who access the institute for reasons of their own office. In order to settle the contrast, the then director of the institute, Dr. Vazzana, arrived, accompanied by the commander of the department, who gave verbally the order to the Picone to let in the surveyor, authorizing at the same time the entry into the department of the aforementioned instrumental equipments. Despite the verbal order, the Picone repeated its obstructive behaviour, recalling again the contents of service order No 175 of 24 June 2000 which, in his opinion, did not allow exceptions. On the same day, the departmental commander communicated in writing the order given verbally, together with a corresponding service arrangement, countersigned by the director. This, therefore, is the reconstruction of the facts, as acclaimed to the outcome of the investigations carried out. It should be pointed out in this regard that, with reference to the case dealt with, no report of service signed by Picone has been found in the documents, nor does it appear that the described events of 11 June 2004 for Picone have resulted in disciplinary or judicial consequences, much less that, as a result of the events described, there has been a sending of the same to the hospital medical commission for the ascertainment of its psychic conditions. On the other hand, several reports concerning the Picone, addressed to the medical-hospital commission before the date of 11 June 2004 and at the following time, appear in the proceedings of the competent management. From the last of these reports came to the charge of the Picon the measure of dispensation from the service for infirmity not dependent on cause of service, arranged from 31 May 2006 on opinion of the medical hospital commission of Palermo. I note, moreover, that the Picone, during his career, has been several times the recipient of reports caused by relations, often conflicting and tense, with other penitentiary operators. Such reports have never led to the administration taking disciplinary action against it. For the sake of completeness, I note that the Picone brought an action against the information reports of the years 2004 and 2005: the first was rejected on the merits, the second was rejected because it was filed out of date. With regard, however, to the hypothetical and possible link between the above mentioned case and the reported finding of mobile phones at other prisons, there is no doubt, precisely in view of the very early exposure, that these are completely different situations, between which no connection can be established. The case in Trapani concerns, in fact, the introduction, legitimately authorized, of a computer and a mobile phone for reasons of service. The other situations are, on the other hand, representative of critical events, which occurred in a completely sporadic way and which - I would like to point out - the response prepared by the administration, as well as timely, has been absolutely incisive. However, the commitment to a widespread control aimed at excluding the repetition of dysfunctional anomalies, which could adversely affect the regular and correct exercise of the penitentiary administration, remains firm.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-396.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-396.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-396.ana.u22	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, there are serious inaccuracies in the reconstruction of the facts that you are listening to from outside. I'll try to go by order. The entry of mobile phones into the police barracks is already regulated by the Department of Penitentiary Administration with a note that has Protocol No 091480/5.1 of 6 June 2000. The prison of Trapani on 24 June 2000 - please follow me in these brief steps - with the order of service n. 175 decrees that only and exclusively the magistrates can enter the second door of the prison of Trapani. Agent Picone complied with a precise service order and no other service order existed before the surveyor appeared at the prison in Trapani claiming to enter with a phone and laptop. Agent Picone did nothing but his duty to stop and listen to what the surveyor had to say, who also said that he had entered the prison with such equipment at other times. Only on 11 June 2004, or after the episode, was a written service provision made where the subject was authorized to enter with that equipment. Then I wonder what a prison police officer should do in such a situation. All he can do is pass unwritten provisions. I would ask you, Mr Undersecretary, to understand what happened also through the assurance that you told me that you had done so. He intervenes on the call of Agent Picone the chief overseer Salvatore Fragale who ascertains if the subject had ever entered the second door and the outcome was negative. There were no further episodes. Mr Picone, Secretary of State, on 30 June 2004, only a few months earlier, obtained a service assessment which was 30, i.e. the maximum. Better than he did his job, you couldn't do it. There are precise assessments. On March 17 this evaluation becomes 14. Everything you have said about your communications and the psychological tests that have been carried out does not correspond to the acts in my possession. Following a trade union meeting - we remember that Picone himself was a trade union representative - were planned by the administration of psychological tests. Article 21 of the Constitution must then be called into question, with regard to freedom of expression and speech. I shall conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by telling everyone that I am Giuseppe Picone! I am a former prison agent, first bronze medal because I have carried out and operated in compliance with the regulations in force for twenty years, then I am also a gold medal! Gentlemen, we are talking about a person who has been awarded the gold medal and who for over ten years has been asking everyone answers - believe me - and no one has thought to give them any. The only positive question, Mr Undersecretary, is that of having finally given an answer, although in my opinion absolutely not acceptable in content, to an Italian citizen who has been carrying out requests for more than ten years. No one must stand back and then, so that the truth of the facts can be restored, Mr Undersecretary, I remain available to finally make clear to a man, who - I repeat - was awarded the gold medal for his work: his name is Giuseppe Picone.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-396.ana.u23	The questioning and questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-396.ana.u24	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-396.ana.u25	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 24 February, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 17.02 p.m.
