ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:36 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders has re-modulated (underline of this word), by majority, the schedule of work of the current week for the follow-up of the examination of the electoral bill. Today's single sitting will be suspended from 3 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. to allow the meeting of a parliamentary group. Tomorrow the Assembly will hold a single sitting, starting at 9.30 a.m., with no scheduled closing hours. Therefore, the inspection union will not take place. The Presidency will be able to assess a mid-day suspension in relation to the progress of the work. The calendar also includes an afternoon sitting on Friday 23 January, from 9.30 a.m. to 12 noon, always at the request of the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u7	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, you have used the word "remodulated," but it seems to me that this word is not appropriate to what happened at the Conference of the Leaders. In fact, the meeting of the inspection union on Thursday afternoon, which was scheduled to be held in which our Group should have received two replies from the Ministers. In addition, Friday morning's sitting was also included. I think that this word is incorrect and, therefore, since we have not approved the change in the timetable (because that is what this is about), I am here to represent that we are talking about a change that should be voted on since there has been no unanimity. Above all, it intervenes in order to lengthen the time of a debate of which we do not yet know what the evolution will be, since we will have to vote on some amendments and we do not know how many will remain. We do not know the course of this debate and, therefore, everything is quite nebulous. There is also an amendment under discussion, which, if I am correct, has been tabled after the deadline. So, it seems to me that there are non-crystal or adamantine situations of this so high assembly that represents the beautiful country. Having said that, we ask that we vote on the timetable and suspend the debate in the Commission on the bill on citizenship income and bring it to the House - I think it is fundamental for us, but above all for the Italians - to discuss it as early as tomorrow morning. This is the change in the timetable that we are asking you and we are asking you to vote on it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u8	Senator Cioffi, your request is inadmissible. The only thing you can propose to me is the possible reinstatement of the session of the inspection union, which has disappeared from our calendar. If you wish to make this proposal, it is acceptable and I shall put it to the vote of the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u9	Being so magnanimous as to allow us to ask for this, we ask for it. However, I disagree with the fact that the timetable has not been changed. I allow myself, on behalf of the Group, to differ from this vision and interpretation. I think that the timetable has really changed: we have also included the Friday sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u10	If you want, you can also propose not to sit down on Friday. You can do that.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u11	CIOFFI (M5S). That's right. We propose not to have the sitting on Friday. Thank you for your magnanimity and we therefore vote on this. However, we have changed the timetable. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u12	Mr Cioffi proposes that the Friday sitting should not be held. Do we all have the confidence of this proposal? I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, tabled by Senator Cioffi. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u13	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1385, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of a bill of popular initiative and the draft own-initiative law of the Cirielli deputies; Pisicchio; Bersani and others; Francesco Saverio Romano; Best and others; Lenzi; Zampa and Marzano; Zampa and Ghizzoni; Martella; Francesco Sanna; Bobba and others; Giachetti and others; Giorgia Meloni and others; Rigoni and others; Rigoni and others; Nicoletti and others; Martella and others; Vargiu; Burtone and others; Balduzzi and others; Laffranco and others; Vargiu; Toninelli and others; Door and others; Zaccagnini and others; Valiante and others; Lauricella; Michele Bordo; Marco Meloni and others; Di Battista and others, and 1449.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u16	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, this amendment, on which I call the House to concentrate, is like what the House - alas, for its President - has already rejected, that is, of a premissive nature. It raises the question, which we have been raising for a long time and many months now, of transitional rules, that is to say to clarify and therefore determine, through the law, which electoral law applies before the entry into force of Italicum after the adoption - which we hope never happens - of constitutional reform. Furthermore, this amendment is always based on the judgment of the Constitutional Court, but it seeks to resolve one of the most debated issues by means of a proposal, as we shall also see in the debate on the following amendments. That is, not only the question of the setting up of the Consultellum, but also the famous node of the blocked lists. The proposal is to make it possible for voters to choose, at least 75%, freely and directly their representatives. It is charged with a percentage of candidates indicated by the political forces and lists that in some way would not have the possibility to have preferences on the territory, and therefore alongside a 25% of the so-called list. It is clear that the districts to which we refer are the same 26 electoral districts as the Porcellum. In each constituency, therefore, there would be a list of no more than 75%, always composed in an alternate way by men and women, on which the electoral citizen can freely express his preference and a 25% of a blocked list, always composed in alternate order. The variant that we are introducing, also with respect to the previous amendment tabled by you, Mr Calderoli, is that of how to assign the seat for medium-sized forces: that is, if only one seat is taken in a constituency, as a candidate, if the seat of the list or instead the one elected with the preferences. The variant that we introduce is the one that links this choice to the number of preferences expressed: in other words, if the number of preferences in one constituency is higher than a certain percentage of the votes cast, the 75% list and preferences would be given priority. Otherwise, if the number is less than a certain percentage, it would trigger the candidate of the 25 percent list. The other variant that we are introducing is about gender preference - and I say this to President Finocchiaro, because we have discussed it many times within the Commission. Both the majority amendments and the discussions in the Commission indicate that the second preference can be expressed provided that it is of a different kind from the first, but in the case of two preferences given to candidates of the same kind, only the second preference is cancelled. Even in order to give strength to the possibility that gender preference is not a further instrument for a series of possible strings, in which preference for women's candidates is inserted only to collect preferences, and then perhaps only to give value to male preference, the proposal that we are putting forward, and that we will repeat in other amendments, is that both preferences are cancelled. This is one of the issues on which I also call on the House to think carefully, as well as on the mechanism that I have proposed of 75% and 25%. I would like to introduce here another question that we will face and which poses a number of problems not only on the blocked leader, from the point of view of gender preference, but also in the introduction of the possibility of multi-candidates, which is an issue of not easy solution. At a time when we are opting, at a time when there are ten candidates, it is clear to everyone that, at that point, if there are no stakes, the possibility of a significant presence of elected members in Parliament is completely missing. It is clear that this amendment once again raises this House to one of the most important issues of the electoral bill and the text approved in the House. I am referring to the fact that we are moving towards a system in which the Senate will be elected (as we say), or rather it will consist of appointed members, regional councillors, therefore with a second-level election, without any kind of direct relationship with the citizens. The House of Deputies, with the proposal put forward by the blocked leader and the other elected with preference, will be composed by a majority once again by nominations. In this way we will be faced with a substantial and total change in parliamentary democracy, which risks ensuring that the elected, if not for a small part, no longer have a direct relationship with the citizens. This is one of the most important issues we have before us. It is not just an abstract discussion whether preferences are better or whether another system should be adopted; it is the basic theme that we are delivering for the future: the possibility that there is, in fact, only one House elected directly, but in which more than half of the members are not elected but appointed. In addition, there would be a significant question as to the principle, which the Court has pointed out to us, of the equality of voting. It is clear to everyone that only the party or the list that takes the majority prize or a percentage certainly above 20%, will have the possibility of being able to see not only the nominated but also the elected with the preferences, achieving, among other things, an undue and further advantage. So in addition to the majority prize there would be an additional advantage that would discriminate against voters by distinguishing them between those who vote the lists under a certain percentage and those who instead give their preference to the list that gets the majority prize. You cannot continue to ignore or settle this issue by considering it annoying, because it is relevant. This amendment, albeit in a transitional rule (but it will also be repeated on a regular basis), offers a further possibility. We regret that the Minister is not listening - she will obviously be committed to the constitutional reforms under discussion in the House - but we are unable and unable to have, even in the debate in the Commission, any serious and credible response on this important issue. I understand that someone in this House - and of course the government too - is interested in voting as few people as possible (this is the assumption on which these reforms are based), but I believe that most citizens demand from us the possibility, at last, to return to having an election power, the choice of their elected representatives. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u19	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we do not like Senator De Petris' amendment 012 - I say this in order to avoid any doubt - because our best result would be the restoration of preferences without any blocked name. That must be the objective, that is what the Constitutional Court has said, and that is what the citizens are asking and asking all of you: you cannot hide behind this, because you know that putting back preference is one of the things that citizens want most. He doesn't care about thresholds, majority prizes, methods of calculation; he only cares about being able to write a name and surname, because it's the closest and clearest thing for citizens. Senator De Petris' amendment is clearly a way of trying to limit the damage and that is why, in this case, we could also vote in favour of this amendment and the amendments that will try to limit the damage as much as possible. The damage is there and I do not say it, our Group does not say it, the oppositions do not say it; I do not want to bother the Constitutional Court, but I remember very well that, in the same report as the rapporteur in the Commission, it has been said that the text dismissed from the House did not respond to all the remarks of the Constitutional Court and that therefore it was necessary to restore preferences, or much of the preferences. Therefore, the blocked leader has been introduced. But I would remind you that the majority rapporteur herself, the rapporteur for the text in the Commission, said that in her amendment she had tried to heal a "deviation" that could happen: having all the capilists blocked, without the multi-candidate, would automatically mean that almost 60 to 70% of the elected Members in the House (we are talking about numbers around 350 to 400 units) would be appointed and not elected with the preferences. In order to remedy this - thus implicitly admitting that there was a problem - the rapporteur introduced (correctly, in that case, putting a piece to something that is losing water on all sides, a patch to this water bottle bucherellata) the multi-candidate capilist up to ten, in order to reduce as much as possible the number of nominations, thus pursuing an objective that - allow me - obviously also the majority shares. The question, then, is: why not start a low limit already? The objective which the rapporteur wanted to achieve in presenting the amendments to the Commission, i.e. to minimise the number of nominations to those elected with preference, why do we not already set it as a ceiling, whether it be 25% or 30%? At least we're sure it doesn't pierce from that roof. But no: we continue to insist on the issue of blocked capilists, using multi-candidateism as a "possibility" to reduce them, without providing for an obligation, when we know that multi-candidateness brings with it further aberrations, such as being able to choose who will replace who in a seat, in which college to be elected, so as to favor or disfavorate someone else. It will favor the roped in the head to the capilists who have no need to seek votes for themselves. Of course, they will make an election campaign by pushing someone and in fact creating a second leader who is almost blocked or still armored by the support of the leader, thus creating a domino effect that will not limit that situation, on the contrary, will result in a Parliament made up entirely of nominations. I repeat: the preference is what the citizens are asking for. One of the clearest, clearest, simplest things is not taking long; it is also a request, indeed a claim of the Court and we are now (in front of you) trampling it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u20	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 01.2 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 01.5, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Bisinella, until the words "upper unit" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 01.5 and amendments 01.7 to 01.8. are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 01.13 tabled by Senator De Petris, until the words "with the following "il." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 01.13 and amendments 01.14 and 01.15 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 01.11, tabled by Senator De Petris, until the words "with the following "il." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 01.11 and amendment 01.12. are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 01.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u22	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u23	Mr Gotor (PD). Mr President, this amendment seeks to improve a fundamental point of the law that we are voting on. Italicum, in fact, will have a majority of appointed parliamentarians and preferences will be reserved only to the winner of the majority prize. This is wrong for two reasons: firstly, in the light of the process of reform of the perfect bicameralism that must take place, it is wrong because we will have only one political chamber with a single trust relationship with the Government and this will consist of three or four great "nominators" who will choose representation. Secondly, we must do everything we can to return the sceptre and the right to choose Members directly to the citizens. To the troubles of democracy, politics must respond with participation and accountability. He must not and cannot continue to lock himself in a fort. We propose that there be 30% of MEPs appointed, a reasonable and understandable share to give space to civil society and the world of professions, but that 70% can and should be chosen with preferences directly from citizens. Among other things, this would also avoid the risks of unconstitutionality that have been pointed out to us by numerous constitutionalists who have spoken in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In fact, the quota of nominees would not be included in the same competition arena, but in a separate list. After ten years of Porcellum, taking this risk again would be intolerable. We cannot afford this, it is the credibility of Parliament - I believe - and of our own democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u26	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we will support Amendment 01.101, tabled by Senator Gotor and other senators, for reasons very similar to those mentioned earlier. We are certainly not convinced that the system of preferences is the best of all and, if - so to speak - we had been able to choose freely, from blocked lists and preferences we would have preferred a system of colleges, in our opinion the most effective, today, in Italy, to ensure transparency and closeness of the electorate to the representatives. However, in a list mechanism blocked, in addition to the combined arrangement, in some way recalled, of a second non-elective Chamber, the Senate, son of the bad constitutional reform that we are carrying out, this amendment still seems to us a positive element of harm reduction, if I may use these words. That is why we shall vote on it. We believe that this electoral law, if adopted in these terms, as in the intentions of the Government, with the combined arrangement of constitutional reform, will put in place a mechanism that will not solve the great open issues of Italian democracy. Our democracy lives a moment of great discomfort, of great suffering, which often translates into a very strong element of distrust of the population, which looks at politics as another body, a separate body, an abstract entity that does not represent it. Therefore, all our actions, all our actions during these months should have been faced with an attempt to resolve these problems. You were wrong to imagine a non-elective House, that of the Senate, with a second-level mechanism. A few weeks ago, when the provinces were voted, we saw what it means to have a second-level mechanism in Italy: to introduce a huge electoral market that concerns only and exclusively the political class. At least before a second-level Senate we should have imagined a House of Deputies elected in a completely different way. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] Instead, the fact that the vast majority of the parties and movements that will run for election, except the party that wins, will elect only nominated, introduces an element, from our point of view, very dangerous that will certainly not help resolve the crisis of democracy of this country. I am really sorry, because over the past few months the words spoken in the various electoral campaigns by those who today are Prime Minister, even when he became secretary of his party, were based on a lot more reasoning than the great theme of how to solve the crisis of Italian democracy. For these reasons we shall vote for this amendment, not because we believe that the problems with it are all solved. It is clear that some of the issues will remain open, but at least this amendment introduces an element of change, albeit not decisive, at least significant in order to put in motion a mechanism of popular participation whose difficulty seems largely underestimated to us. When we discuss electoral law and constitutional reform, we should hold a debate of days, of weeks focused mainly on the fact that in our country, over the course of these years, the number of people who vote is being dramatically reduced. Italy from this point of view was, in the course of the 1900s, a great anomaly, also compared to the rest of the world. In particular, we point out in our country an element of great participation in public life by the sovereign people, which reached percentages of considerable value and high level. The fact that this percentage, over the course of these years, has dramatically decreased to the very worrying thresholds with which we have faced ourselves during the last rounds of elections - with the paradoxical result that one in two Italians does not vote today - would have deserved much more serious reflection on the part of this Parliament. That is all we should have discussed, namely the fact that we are seeing our democracy put on the ground day after day, increasingly, this element of difficulty and crisis. To this crisis, to this difficulty, to this so strong abstentionism we cannot respond with the combined arrangement of the two mechanisms represented by a second-level Senate and a Chamber of Deputies that elects 70% in a blocked way. This is a wrong solution to the crisis in Italy. Let us hope that this vote will mark a reversal of the trend. That is why we shall support this amendment. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u29	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I should like to say a few words about what the advantage is and for who it is an advantage to have blocked or partially blocked lists. It is an advantage for those who want to clean up internal democracy, with means of killing uncomfortable candidates; it is an advantage for those who want to force in some way a bipolar and bipolar system, then, also totally schizophrenic between what they claim to pursue and what they achieve in fact. With the lists blocked you expropriate citizens of the right to vote, the right to truly choose candidates and possibly reject a "businessable". Today, we still have the opportunity to apply for permanent sentences. Well, voters find themselves obliged to choose between a political idea, a program - often trampled on after the vote - and perhaps entrepreneurial people submitted to them as blocked capilist, as unremovable nomenclatures, allowing themselves to do so even where these unremovable ones are reduced and quotad because the voting packages, the packages of the Camelled Troops that would otherwise have had to support them can be moved, scrolling down the list on other candidates pleasing to the secretariats. So, it's not that limiting the blocked capilists we get to guarantee the 70% quota of chosen with preferences, because they will be chosen with the preferences commanded. As we have seen in the primaries of the Democratic Party, not only for the voting packages purchased on the black market, but also for the limited choice among the candidates, not having to shadow the candidate in turn - we have seen him in the primary in Veneto - the candidate wanted by the secretariat, to which instead a human case, a credible case, should be approached, in order to give at least the appearance of a true consultation. In such a system, would this amendment be admissible, would it be compatible with democracy and the Constitution? They told us at the hearing: there is a disparity between candidates and also between voters, therefore, both from the point of view of the passive electorate and the active electorate, this rule - they have already told us - is unconstitutional. Under normal conditions, Mr President, with a normal government, representatives of the Government, we cannot vote in favour of this amendment because no failure is possible when democracy is undermined; no reduction in the damage is possible. But we find ourselves in a situation that - indeed - is not normal and we find it looking down there: they do not show you what happens there. We've seen him these months. We have seen that an agreement has simply been ratified in the Commission outside the classrooms of democracy; we have seen that not one vote has been allowed, not even on the rapporteur's amendment: we arrived in the Chamber at night, like robberies, to incardinate this, which I do not even want to call a law, because it is a Diktat. We have seen the tricks in which we have tried to make an amendment out of time. [[Comments by Senator Stefano Esposito.]] My colleague, I see you shake your head, but if you don't have the height of the Metternich, maybe it's because the lies have short legs. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In the face of such a situation, where the Government has even given up the possibility of seeing 40,000 amendments dropped and did not allow a single change to that scam amendment, we know that we are not in a normal situation and in a normal Parliament: we do not have a normal government as an interlocutor. At this point, we want to reveal Serracchiani's bluff, Renzi's bluff, Boschi's bluff and this whole court, which calls for dialogue and then rejects it in fact. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We will vote in favour of this amendment, because it is a litmus test that really shows us what conditions this country and this unfortunate democracy are in. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u32	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Mr President, we must all note that in recent years Parliament and this Senate have lost their authority. This loss of authority is largely linked to the disaffection of citizens towards parliamentary representation. And this loss of affection, of ties between citizens and parliamentarians, is certainly linked to the methods of designating parliamentarians, not linked to the territory and to the people who vote in elections, but linked to party secretariats. It seemed that with the Porcellum we had reached the lowest point. That is not the case, because with the combined provision of the revision of the Constitution proposed by the Government and this electoral law we are moving towards a Parliament of which the Senate is not elected by the electoral body and the House is to a large extent designated by the secretariats. 10:39 a.m. (Follows Campanella). In this amendment we receive an important signal. Inside the Democratic Party there are people who have a similar view on these points. There are people who are fully aware that a parliamentarians is such when they represent the people, who are the sole holders of sovereignty for our Constitution. We will vote in favour of this amendment in a convincing way, because we hope to be able to break down the political path that Italy is taking from a full democracy, even if imperfect and with defects, to a real oligarchy, in which not only the secretariats of the parties have the control of all the ganglia of the State, but this situation in fact wants to be placed as a situation of law, no longer incontestable. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u34	He has the right, for a time discreetly contained.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u35	Tarquinio (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am speaking in dissent from the Group, so for the time of dissent. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I wouldn't want to strangle your intervention, so arrange it. Tarquinio (FI-PdL XVII). Of course, Madam President. I will vote in favour of Senator Gotor's amendment 01.101, which I wholeheartedly support because it is time to end it and put the floor to the citizens. This amendment is still insufficient for me, because the elections should take place entirely with the system of preferences. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Bell]] As Senator De Cristofaro also said, it is the moment when we have to worry about the citizens who are outside and do not share us, who just hear the word "senator" or "deputated" run away or look at us in a way that almost rejects us. However, this doesn't seem to interest anyone, it doesn't seem to interest anyone who still has to achieve personal goals, so we run for whom we want, who we like, possibly who doesn't have consent and who has to say yes always and anyway, beyond any reason. And so many colleagues are voting, not realizing that they are going to the slaughter house for the umpteenth time, as was the case with the Senate reform. It seems nothing: the Provinces, the Senate and now this law, which kills every form of democracy and every possibility of choice on the part of the citizen, which is totally hallucinating and unacceptable. Nor is it possible to hear that preferences would be a source of polluted voting. I was elected from the age of 26 with the preferences, uninterruptedly, and I do not know that anyone has ever accused me of polluted vote, mobster or camorrist, despite coming from Puglia that is certainly not a "clean" Region (but now in Italy it is not anymore). This is the real fact and the truth is that one is afraid of preferences, because generally he collects them who is among the people, who lives with the people and receives the disputes, while the others flee, so much are closed in their Palaces. The problem is who's among the people. I will therefore vote in favour of this amendment, which I believe is useful and insufficient because, as I said, I would have preferred a system entirely with preference. The system of capilists and multi-candidate leaders is something incredible and unacceptable, to which the conscience of each of us should rebel. And instead, quietly, let's move on. You did it with the Senate reform and the Provinces provision: congratulations to everyone! But there never comes a whisper of dignity, a whisper to say: "I'm here, what do I do? Am I doing something useful for this country where I was born?" [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli]] No, for God's sake! One obeys only logics that certainly have nothing to do with the common good. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and Misto-SEL Groups and Senators Bignami and Gatti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u37	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u38	D'ANNA (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)). Madam President, I would like to support Senator Gotor's amendment and I will not make any further comments than I have just heard. Senator Gotor's amendment marks a turning point in the current political moment in Italy. In fact, even though they have explained to us that this whole affair is intertwined with the revival of the importance and centrality of my party, I believe that a party conquests centrality not already with the benevolence of the Head of State, but by carrying forward the essence of the values of reference, of the horizon of values, of programs and of the protection of the social classes of reference. A friend of Sposetti's said, Carlo Marx: "Politics is the government of men disguised through the government of things." And, therefore, if we do not distinguish ourselves on the things we want to achieve, we do not govern with respect to those who expect from us a protection of widespread and legitimate interests, but we become a convent of Chinese weeds that is in here to enjoy the comforts, the salary and all the prebende that are intended for a parliamentarians. Why do I say that? The Gotor amendment marks a turning point. In this country do we want to continue to focus the responsibility for the choice of parliamentarians and, therefore, of the future governments of the nation in the hands of a few people, who indicate through the blocked capilists which parliamentarians will have to govern the nation or do we want to entrust this exercise in whole or in majority to the people? When we speak of the sovereign people, we should remember that the sovereign people do not serve sovereigns. If the people are sovereign, they choose, beyond the Camarilles, the convents, the meetings between party leaders, this liturgy which in the first Republic was so deprecated and which today is consolidated. I do not know what these brains will say in the closed rooms: probably there will be the Holy Spirit who will infuse the charism of omniscience and omnipotence and within these speeches, which are excluded from the knowledge of public opinion and parliamentarians, will select what, in their view, is the best that civil society can offer. The contingency and storms that we have already faced with constitutional reform, the silent bystanders, the imperturbable colleagues who vote without having whispered any have already shown us amply what the genius of the nominees is made of: you do not choose the smartest, but the most faithful; you do not choose the most capable, but the most obedient. This applies to 360 degrees, because it is the law of power management: those who manage power need in a democratic parliamentary regime, at least in its form and not in its substance, troops of maneuver, such as those that Bartolomeo Colleoni, also Tuscan (even if he operated in the Marches), could maneuver on the political battlefield. So what does Gotor tell us? Do these things to her, but in medium stat virtus. Make yourself 25 or 30 percent, but how many waiters and lackeys do you need? [[Applause from the Divine Senators and Bignami]] I think a couple of hundred are enough to wear a livery, to hear: "How beautiful and intelligent you are; you are a genius." You know the most toxic smoke to man's mind is incense. Here you have a lot of people who have poisoned themselves with salami and bows so deep that many of them can see their asses down, and it's not good to see, dear friends. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups and Senator Bignami]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u39	Senator D'Anna, please use a more appropriate language.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u40	D'ANNA (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)). It's an anatomical term. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There are various ways to indicate the same anatomical part. D'ANNA (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)). The Pope used it; I believe it is appropriate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is above all the concept that you want to express. D'ANNA (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)). What do you call it? Are we having a semantic discussion about this? There's also an idiomatic form: "Assfaces." PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator, I would ask you to continue your speech. D'ANNA (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)). There are various forms that are idiomatic. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please respect the whole House. D'ANNA (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)). I'm sorry, I was just saying that so I wouldn't put it in semantics. I believe Senator Gotor is in the middle and, therefore, in a condition of virtue. Do you want a Parliament that is, preferably, courtiers and rulers or do you want a Parliament elected by the people with all the discrasies (democracy we know well to be a quantitative and not a qualitative element)? Silone said in "The school of dictators" (which Verdini read well): Democracy has managed to fly many chickens. It is not that democracy comes out of the selection of the best, but it is always better than the swamped democracy of a Parliament that is made up of nominations, which are appointed in terms of quality which have nothing to do with politics, culture, ability and merit. We will vote for Senator Gotor's amendment: we will vote for it because today we are writing a new page for Italian politics and not because Forza Italia has split or because PD has split. In fact, we are returning to the gap that, in the nineties, with the movement led by Mariotto Segni, marked a discrimination among those who wanted to return to the direct responsibility of choosing the rulers and the legitimacy that comes from the people, which is the one that authorizes and gives authority to those who have to take the decisions (it is certainly not the swamped vote of an Assembly already subject and decided in the chambers of compensation of politics). Do you want to vote against Gotor? Very well, do your pentaparty, because this is now a question of making a new government. Senator Paolo Romani claimed it and is right, because if there is no more a majority on electoral law, the government must be changed. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group]] I do not know how many seats or overhangs my party has agreed; I hope that it chooses well in its ranks because there are men of great capacity, but they are men of great capacity in private because they are silent in the public. In my party there is this messianic expectation of becoming and politics is the art of becoming. But what are we waiting for? That Lazarus rises again? We, as a party of moderates who essentially proposed the liberal revolution, the overthrow of the maximum and pauperistic state, of the State-Leviathan...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u41	Please conclude, Senator D'Anna.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u42	D'ANNA (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)). Where do we want to go? To be the Party of the Nation with Matteo Renzi. So, dear Denis Verdini, I'm telling you publicly: call me when you're the Party of the Nation because in a new house I have to go through the door and not like a beggar from the back door. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and Misto-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u44	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u45	MICHELONI (PD). Mr President, I disagree with my Group in order to clarify my position. These days I would like to remind you that I have been elected three times in the foreign constituency: we vote with pure proportionality and with the system of preferences and, therefore, I have to respond to my constituents. It has appeared inconsistent for me that I do not have my signature on this amendment. I believe, however, that it is very consistent that my signature is not there, because I remember that I did not participate in the vote on constitutional reform. I can announce here that, at second reading, I will vote against that constitutional reform, given how it is going in the House. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-MovX Groups]] I believe that consistency cannot now be judged on an amendment. I think that if we had the same energy that I see developed today on this electoral law in the work of so-called reform (I cannot call reform what came out of this Senate), we would have another story today. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-MovX Groups.]] Coherence was there. I hope then to be at second reading with all these colleagues who have signed the amendment tabled by Senator Gotor to stop what is not a reform, but that I believe is a destruction of the democratic system of our country. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] On the electoral law, now, we can talk and debate, there are many points of view, I believe all legitimate even if no one is perfect, but there is a reflection that we did yesterday in a debate with some colleagues outside of this House, without any ideological or party preconception, I dare to call it an exchange of views between citizens: if we had this electoral law in 2013, what composition would this Parliament have today? Who would have won the ballot on that wave we lived in 2013? If I were a member of the 5 Star Movement, I would defend this bill with the sword. [[Applause from Senator Serra.]] I think that reflections a little less technical, more earthly but closer to reality we should all do them. I really hope, at the time of the final debate on constitutional reform, that we will be able to stop that non-reform, finding all those energies that, if they had supported the work and proposals put forward by President Chiti, would have led our country on a slightly safer path. I therefore abstain on this amendment. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group and Senator Cervellini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u47	I assume you're acting in dissension from your group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u48	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). No, because no one has said so, Madam President: yours is an intuition, but in this case it is not correct. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I apologize, then. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). I have some thoughts to share with the House about this amendment tabled by Senator Gotor, which, like others, is of great importance in the current debate, especially for those of us who are fond of the idea that the improvement of a text can come out of this debate. 10:58 a.m. (Following BONFRISCO). I would like to point out that part of this text is not, from my point of view, sustainable and it is the part that refers to the list prize, firstly because I belong to a party that has always intended to support the coalition prize, but in this specific case a premium that is even expected to be 37%, when in the common and shared debate it has always been believed that the 40% threshold was at least the most appropriate limit to be able to assign to a list, a party or a coalition the majority prize, I consider it a negative element. On the other hand, I consider everything that meets the possible balance on the perhaps more sensitive issue that we face in this electoral law to be positive. Finally, the consideration on the list premium, which perhaps we will have the opportunity to resume even later, I would like to take the opportunity of this amendment to focus on the other point, the other fundamental leg of a good electoral law. I would like to remind you, with the patience of my fellow Members who I hope are interested, as in the last twenty years, starting with that Mattarellum which many, for example, still consider a good solution today, to which I am looking with criticality because from there we set in motion a pernicious mechanism that then led us... [[Brusio]] Excuse me, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u49	Colleagues, a senator from your group is speaking, you are just a short distance away from her.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u50	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Look, maybe it's those behind me who are just asking for a moment of patience. Many considered that electoral choice, at the time of Mario Segni's referendum, the best solution - I am sure of the intellectual honesty of the proposers - to guarantee our country an effective governability, beyond the limit of witnessing, representation, proportionality. The transition to the majority system began to lead to the elimination or disappearance of a widespread representation of cultural, political, social and even economic lines from the parliamentary classrooms. We all remember, for example, the strong presence of farmers' representatives in the parliamentary classrooms. A little at a time all this disappeared crushed by the dynamics of the majority vote and of the single college, which has elements of clarity certainly positive, but that cost us the loss of a widespread and deep representation. You mean we didn't know how to create them anymore? Maybe, but today we, on the basis of that sedimentation that comes from there, and that has led us over the years to distance more and more the choices of the citizen than the choices at the head of the parties (that lively exist), or at the head of the institutions through the vote of electoral laws useful for that purpose or not, we find ourselves photographing a figure that for the history of our country is at least very critical. I do not want to use words out of proportion, because I consider it critical and capable of seriously questioning the democratic and institutional process what separates us and moves us inexorably further, regardless of our intentions or the will not only of the individual but also of the party. Some parties, the PD in particular, on this front try to respond to that vacuum that is left with the instrument of the primaries, which I hope will soon be regulated a little 'better because so far we do not see brilliant results, but we know that that is one of the few real instruments that we must be able to use, even more so if we hypothesize, as is hypothesized in a text that we will probably vote on soon, the so-called Espositum, a total block of the capilists. Beyond the limits of a constitutional nature, which do not belong to me, Mr President, and allow me not to delay on this, let me instead point out that perhaps it is not clear to everyone that, according to this mechanism (which, according to the Gotor amendment, provides the prize for the list at 37%, and the combined text with the Espositum, which provides for capilist everywhere), in the end in this country only and exclusively the elector of the PD - the lucky elector of the PD - will be able to contribute to the formation of parliamentary classrooms and civil and democratic representation. All the other voters will not have that chance. I say this above all for the political area to which I belong, that is, the center-right and, within it, for Forza Italia, that has always been the fundamental engine of a center-right that today seems condemned to assisted and piloted suicide, as in the case of euthanasia, also through the imposition, that someone evidently suffers, of the text on the capilist. This, in fact, will only feed the gap, the breakdown, that already exists on the territory, between the elected parliamentarians and the territory itself, with its dynamics, also political. Not everyone will be lucky, as, for example, I am in my Province, having an active party and a strong connection with the elected by the people, in particular with the regional councillors of that Province. This is not the case for everyone, and we know that, Mr Calderoli. What would I like to represent, then? In expressing my opposition to that list award at 37%, I would also like to stress that, on the other hand, the proposal that Gotor makes with Amendment 01.101, to balance the need for all parties to be able to guarantee their own choice in the seat of representation (i.e. that proportion of blocked or capilist) with the need to have another quota, obviously major and important, allocated instead to freedom, responsibility and active participation of citizens, seems to me a balance that can only improve this law, which risks - and not only risks: for us it is a certainty - to condemn the center-right to no longer join in a common proposal in order to win the elections. But above all, he condemns Forza Italia to total suicide and to the removal from the territory, from his people, from his people, from the realities that he has always been able to represent. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u53	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, on a personal note, I shall briefly explain why I shall vote for the Gotor amendment. First of all, there is a question of coherence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So you disagreed with your group, Senator Giovanardi? GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). I do not know, my Group has not yet expressed itself, so I say 'in a personal capacity', I put my hand forward. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] Meanwhile, on a matter of consistency: I have always been in favour of preferences.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u54	Senator Giovanardi, I must believe, as long as there is no other expression, that if you speak, you speak on behalf of the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u55	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). No, I speak in dissent. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that and give you the floor. You have three minutes. GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). In line with the attitude I have always taken, I considered the elimination of preferences in 1994 to be a serious democratic mistake. In the debate on the Porcellum I recall that, in the House of the House, the Group to which I belonged, the UDC, tabled an amendment in favour of the preferences that collected about 80 votes, but was rejected by the Assembly; therefore, as far as we were concerned, the Porcellum had to be an electoral system in which the lists had to be made in such a way as to allow citizens, with the preferences, to elect candidates. I have not changed my mind about the need for citizens to be able to choose their representatives, so this is the first reason I am in favour of the Gotor amendment. The second reason concerns the mafia pollution, the 'ndrangheta, the Camorra, the underworld: it is said that preferences in Italy are at risk. But then, ladies and gentlemen, the primary ones are much more at risk, because those who want to pollute the vote have much less difficulty in polluting the mechanisms before the vote. In fact, measuring up on territories with tens of thousands of voters is an account. Some colleagues have said the truth: as long as there were preferences, there were people who took hundreds of thousands of votes of preference and it is difficult, for people rooted in the territory, to be eliminated by "Mr. Nobody" who go on the list even if they have behind phenomena of vote pollution. Therefore, a vote which is left to the citizens to speak is much more guaranteed than a piloted vote. Thirdly, someone should explain to me why the municipalities vote with preferences, the regions vote with preferences, Europe vote with preferences and therefore we have a system of choice of candidates that recognizes at local level, at regional Parliament level - that is, at legislative level - and at European level the choice of candidates with preferences. Even many regions have eliminated the lists, because they considered them an absolutely unjustified privilege. Therefore, when, at all levels of voting, citizens are allowed to choose, with a schizophrenic and counter-current choice, Parliament would instead be about to deny the citizens this possibility. I know that there is an exception (I see here Senator Verdini) that is the Tuscan model. Tuscany was the only region that in the regional elections had long inaugurated the blocked lists; the only one in twenty. Now the Tuscany Region has enacted a new law that is exactly the photocopy of what you want to propose here that provides the preferences but with the automatically elected leaders. So Parliament imitates the only region in twenty (not surprisingly Renzi and Verdini are Tuscans) that uses that model. Finally, I would like to say that in Senator Gotor's amendment there is a reasonable balance: it is not said that parties, as was the case with the Senate during the first Republic, do not have the right to indicate people who are believed to have to be selected beyond preference, but set a limit of 30%. This limit is very reasonable and in line with what the Constitutional Court has said. The combination of these reasons makes me lean for the vote in favour of this amendment and I sincerely do not understand how this Parliament, with all the contraindications, even at the level of public opinion, which have blocked lists, can allow a law to pass in which, as has been authoritatively pointed out, beyond the party that wins the elections - and I do not know what it will be - all the others will not allow the citizens to elect the reference Members.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u58	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I wanted to ask whether it will be customary today to change the presidency according to the votes so as to guarantee this very weak majority two more votes and therefore whether you vote for an amendment of one type send you and vice versa. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] This will also be a regular procedure, but I find it extremely sloppy for the citizens and also for the voters of the PD. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u59	Senator Airola, there's no trick. Shifts are established in advance and occasionally we appeal to the courtesy of colleagues for needs let's call them physiological. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u62	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, consistency has often and gladly been called to this House at this stage of the debate. We've seen everything happen in this country. Italians have an unbridled patience, a huge availability. They forgave basically everything to the political class, economic disasters and everything else and also so many personal "marachelles." The only thing they don't forgive a politician is that he lies. Everything can be forgiven but lies cannot be told to citizens. Years and years have passed and almost all political formations have come to criticism of electing the ruling class in Parliament with blocked lists. Years and years of criticism, right or wrong that they were, because at a certain historical moment the famous law was promulgated - branded with a bad name because it did not start so but actually came to the point of being defined, by the person who gave birth to it, as something that was no longer good with a famous epithet: Porcellum - which got a remarkable simplification of the political picture. Every law, in fact, is the fruit of history and of the moment and at that time by 17 parliamentary groups in the House, the day after the introduction of the new system came to five groups. The new system had achieved a simplification and place of the thresholds, but it had a great defect: it had started with the preferences and had arrived with a substantial selection of the political class by the parties according to a ranking, a list established outside the choice of citizens. After having said for so long that this was not good, we are here to decide once again on a law that essentially reports everything that is worse, where two thirds of parliamentarians will still be elected on the basis of choices made by the parties and no longer by the citizens. Senator Gotor, in my opinion, is looking far ahead. In fact, if the entire party of Gotor will jump, because the Italians, in the end, will prove that there is also a limit to patience and decency, the people who maintain a certain consistency and do not tell lies will definitely have a check to go and cash. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] For our part there will be support, it is inevitable, because the amendment comes to mediate the needs present at this historic moment, when it must also support management and governance. Therefore, a system that basically allows parties to bring people with those experiences they think they need, but which fall into an unvulgar percentage, 14 or 30 percent, can be considered acceptable. Moreover, 30% is a percentage we have been talking about for years, because under the life of Mattarellum, with the single-member colleges, there was a 25% proportional figure in the lists made substantially by the parties. It is acceptable that parties say they need a number of experiences, qualifications in their candidates, but they need to leave 70% of the choice to the citizens, the people, the voters. If the wretched law of the 100 colleges goes through, we know that the middle college will consist of a list of four or five seats. It is simple to make a calculation: if there were four seats taking place in a college, being the system of distribution based on the D'Hondt method, it will probably be only the four forces that exceed 15 percent to obtain them. Today we know that in this House, in the country, there is this orientation: four important political forces that would take the first, the second, the third and the fourth seats. At least 400 Members of Parliament will come out according to the list number. Only in the seats where there will be the fifth and sixth choice probably - and I speak of probability because the fifth could be enough for school - there will be very few elected candidates with preferences. Everything's been turned upside down here. The idea is that preference does not guarantee the presence of quality people in Parliament. It is true that we have seen that with the preferences many people are able to enter Parliament, even people who are not correct, but we cannot turn the omelette again. Just now it has been remembered that we are going to elect the Regional Councils on the basis of preferences in colleges of important regions, with millions of inhabitants. Even these election campaigns cost money. In Europeans, where we even have supra-regional colleges, elections are carried out with preference. How can you stand up for the objection that would cost too much only for the general elections? In fact, either this criterion is general, or it is a criterion that is used ad libitum, as needed, and here it is actually used as needed. Today - and we do not understand why - Governor Renzi even wants a law that within his party has always been abhorred: all the secretaries of the Democratic Party who have alternated in recent years said that they would want an electoral law to give citizens this opportunity. In the last parliamentary term the Democratic Party succeeded - at least in the Senate, then in the House everything jumped because the legislature closed - to give birth to an electoral law, ordered by my colleague Finocchiaro, in which the double turn of college was expected: this package was voted and then passed to the Chamber, where alas stopped. The Democratic Party has always thought either of preferences, or of colleges, in any case single, over which the elector decides and makes his own choice. If we let go of what appears at this point as the last beach, that is, if we did not vote on the Gotor amendment, we would do nothing but leave blank paper to the chamber of the parties, to the secretariats of the parties, so the candidates will not be quality people, they will not be people tied to the territory, but they will be people linked to power groups, to the famous magic circles, and how many we have seen birth and how many we have seen die, because in the magic circle you enter, but you are also expelled very easily. It is certainly not a good system, but if we basically - and I am going to conclude, Mr President - have chosen people with criteria in which the elector no longer counts, it is like saying that we rely blindly on the choices of the parties. All right, let's get some weighted votes. What is the point of having a Parliament of 600 people vote, whether it is 600 nominated or whether, in any case, two thirds, so the vast majority, will be appointed? Let us also accept the weighted vote, let us perhaps leave them at home, and it will then be the Parent Company that raises hands representing 10, 20, 50, 100 Members of Parliament: why bother them all to come to Parliament and waste time in discussions that are not needed? [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Misto-MovX Groups and Senator Gambaro]] We give the keys totally to party secretariats! It seems to me that this is not the will, nor the reasonable people, least of all, of the Italians, who look at us with a strange eye, thinking that we are all completely crazy and that here there are Martians who, after having said for years of things, today, with an incredible nerve, suggest others totally opposed. As a North League we will vote in favour of the first-signed amendment by Gotor; we will always be linear to what we promised and said. We would like to maintain this consistency and wish those who maintain this consistency even in the majority parties, within which it is much more difficult at this time to be free, that history is a man, even if the expression does not refer properly to history.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u63	I invite you to conclude, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u64	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Time and history will remember the people who have had a linear path and a life, who have made linear choices, acting with operational consistency and who do not want to tell lies, because at this moment the parties have interest in that it even upsets reality. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Misto-MovX Groups and Senator Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u67	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, I just wanted to say that I am speaking on behalf of the Group and not dissenting. It is my duty to make an emphasis, which I imagine will welcome the spirit of all the Senators of the PD. My words may not be shared, but they are, and will be, exclusively words, with which I will express a position and defend an idea, in absolute respect for the ideas and opinions of others. We are a Parliament which has an objective problem to deal with, with which solutions can be diversified, but in dealing with which, under no circumstances, personal respect and political positions can never fail. [[Applause from the PD Group and from the government benches]] It does not escape anyone that we are at a passage that is not simply that of the electoral law but that, combined with constitutional reforms, gives us a new institutional model that is certainly marked, aimed and aimed at a ruling democracy, that is, a democracy that must be able to carry out its function to the full. And its function is to offer the country solutions and political visions that confront different ideas of country and different solutions to problems, but in a condition in which those who have the majority must be able to bring the country to know the proposed solutions and to judge the political forces that govern on the basis of the solutions and proposals that, with the majority, will decide and determine. This is the scenario in which the electoral law also moves, which, in the wake of the draft Constitutional Law, focuses on the Chamber of Deputies and sets up for the Chamber of Deputies a majority system with reference to a proportional majority prize, which the President of the Council gives us on the evening of the elections. This is certainly the defining, decisive and discriminating element of this model. This is the element on which the sharing or non-sharing of the underlying vision and the proposed solution is played. What comes from this model is a determination absolutely in line and consistent with the reflection that goes through and has crossed the Democratic Party all these years. It is the solution that leads us to get out of the condition of consociativism, to give us clear majorities, to prevent wide or wide understandings and to give clarity to the whole design. On this point in the Democratic Party there is a total sharing. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u68	Colleagues, I invite you to lower the tone of the conversation. In particular, I would like to address the members of the Justice Commission, who should be an example of the free possibility of a senator to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u69	Mr President, in the context of a shared basic solution, consideration must be given to this amendment, too, because I do not believe that the whole Democratic Party wants us to think that dissent on a technicality of the bill is a disagreement on the basic draft. I believe that this would be offensive to the whole Democratic Party, that this ruling democracy wants it knowing that in the perspective of these moments and in the evolution of the political system without the ruling democracy there is no more democracy. On Senator Gotor's amendment, the vote will be against, but first I would like to make an overall reflection. This amendment, in its illustration, focuses on the subject... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u70	Colleagues, I will suspend the session if the hemicycle is not released. President Palma, Senator D'Ascola, colleagues, I can't even see the senator I'm talking to! Mr Pagliari (PD). First of all, I would like to point out that this amendment, whose illustration is focused on the subject of the capilists, has a much wider scope. It also contains the forecast of 8% barrier and 37% threshold for the majority. I believe that these are not secondary elements of the amendment and that they affect the overall picture. Therefore, I believe that a negative assessment should also be made in this respect. On the subject of the capilist, it must be clear that the proposed solution is reasonable and consistent with the design as a whole. I would like to stress that this bill, leading to a solid majority such as the one provided for in the mechanism, provides that among 340 Members of the majority, 100 are the leaders. From this point of view, I therefore believe that the framework is clear, and that there is a balance and there is no predetermination of the parliamentary group, nor a question of nominations. We therefore confirm the vote against amendment 01.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u71	Senator Pagliari, I apologize for the misunderstanding about dissent, but today understanding who is in agreement and who is in dissent is not always easy.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u72	I greet the students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Education Salvemini-Duca d'Aosta in Florence, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u73	I would like to point out to my colleague Pagliari and to the House that there is a text 2 of Senator Gotor's amendment 01.101, in which the 8% barrier threshold has been replaced by a 3% threshold and a 37% threshold has been changed to 40%. These changes have been made to both amendment 01.101 and amendment 01.102.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u75	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u76	RUTA (PD). Mr President, I am dissenting because, together with other colleagues, to tell the truth, we thought we would not vote on Amendment 01.101, precisely because of the elements that have been changed, namely the thresholds of 8% and 37%. The reasons are simple: amendments 01.101 and 01.102 define a certain percentage and certainly above 60% of those who will be elected with preferences and not instead appointed in the single legislative chamber with direct election and universal suffrage, having determined, with the reform that we have voted even though not yet in force, the composition of the Senate with election of second degree. It is for this simple reason that we believe that we should have access to the possibility of voting on these two amendments, even though we disagree - and I regret this - with regard to the Group's position. I must also point out that the determination and the reasons that prompted the PD Group to vote against this amendment are basically a fact: the electoral law is written together. The other political forces have found a point of synthesis exactly in this state of affairs, namely in the fact that they have the capilists and arrive at uncertain results, if the number of nominations will be greater than those elected with preferences. We believe, after ten years - and I do not want to do so, President - of the previous electoral law that this House and this Parliament should have a direct duty to ensure that the majority of members of the future Chamber of Deputies, with direct elections by the citizens, are elected. [[Applause from the PD and LN-Aut groups and Senators Gambaro and Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u79	Mr Quegliariello (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like to make a few secular comments on Senator Gotor's amendments. I believe that we are discussing a fundamental change of approach to the electoral law which, in the House of Deputies, has been voted on on another basis: it provided for compulsory coalitions, blocked lists and 37% as a threshold, which has been reached with no double turn. We, even by participating in a majority agreement, have intended to change this approach and we claim this result, because today the law we are debating is based on a double turn. For us this is a fundamental fact because it also affects the form of government, approaching that direct election of the Head of the Executive, which as far as we are concerned is however, if well regulated, an element that characterizes modern political systems. This law is no longer based on compulsory coalitions, which we believe to have been a negative element of how the system has worked since 1994 but on free parties. And it is in this sense that the law destroys the system of the three thresholds and replaces it with a single threshold, that of the three percent, that it does not represent an aspiration to build small parties but rather that unit of measure that also allows a party of not large dimensions to put itself at the table to create federal parties and try to create in this country, finally, a system of alternation between a democratic left, legitimized and enrolled in social democracy, and a right - or if you want a moderate right - not extremist and not on xenophobic positions. The parties and oppositions to the left have thus been built, with a mechanism of federation. This is how they were built in Spain and France. And this law, focusing on the list, gives everyone a chance: to the system, but above all to the moderate part that is the one that suffers most politically in the current situation. The third important point for us was the extension of the choice of citizens: from blocked lists we have moved to blocked capilists. It is not a choice that satisfies us completely, but we know that if the rules are to be built together we must also accept that a law is not written in its own image and likeness. I greatly appreciated the intellectual honesty of Senator Crimi's intervention, who said this morning that multi-candidates are an indirect way of trying to expand the audience of those who will not be appointed, but will be chosen. As far as we're concerned, it's the absolute truth. That's why we wanted ten multi-candidates, and we said we're gonna use them all. That is why we would like them to expand even further, not least because citizens could see which parties give them space and who do not. That is why we would like, even in a multi-candidate system, the choice of the chosen choice to be reserved for voters and not for the option of multi-candidates: this could be done very easily by determining the fact that it is taken where the follower in the list of preferences has taken the lowest number of preferences compared to the others. This would also lead to a comment on the decision of the Constitutional Court. Having said that, the establishment of this law, however, convinces us. I want to say another thing: even with regard to the 30 percent blocked list, I think this is a better choice. Layly I have no difficulty in saying that, if I had to choose independently of a plant, on this point I would choose the list. I say another thing in detail: technically it should be specified whether the first elected is chosen in the blocked list or in the preferences, otherwise the small parties would find themselves to have 100 percent of the candidates chosen in the blocked list and not from the preferences. We could, as a result, have an even worse effect than we wanted to correct. I should also like to point out that there is no such thing as the anti-flipper rule in the Gotor amendment, which has been inserted and that it is essential for small parties because without that rule the so-called surplus seats are taken where there is room, regardless of any criterion of justice, and it can happen that within a party there are those who have much higher percentages and are not elected and those who have minimal percentages and, only by chance and because they are in a given situation, are elected. This was a vulnus of the law that came from the House, which we corrected. There is 8% in one of the two amendments and 3% in the other. Above all, there is the focus on coalitions. I believe that it is time to make a choice in favour of the parties. This means moving forward, implementing Article 49 of the Constitution and addressing the issue of policy financing. But the fact that we are crossing the desert and are changing our institutions does not allow us to deny all the road that has already been completed. In conclusion, I do not deny that on the subject of preferences, the solution presented by the amendments tabled by Mr Gotor is better. But, if I look at the plant, the system that proposes those amendments to us compared to what we are discussing is much less stimulating, from our point of view. This is why secularly, knowing that if the rules are done together something must be given, between the plant and a solution that concerns only preferences, our Group chooses the overall system. We will vote against the two amendments and continue to wage a battle to widen the meshes so that citizens can choose even more than the agreement allows them. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u81	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u82	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Winston Churchill said that war, like politics, produces tremendous emotions but also great upheavals. In war one dies only once; in politics one can die several times, with the addition that in politics, in addition to the extermination of values and ideas, there is the extermination of a democracy when it is as vivid and vital as ours is and as we would like to preserve it. In fact, the amendment we are talking about is profoundly related to the principles of democracy and institutional structures consistent with that heritage which is written in our Constitution, which reaffirms the principles of parliamentary democracy based on the participation of the people in the construction of a heritage, a value, an idea and a decision-making process. Well, we would do absolutely wrong if we imagine the electoral law not contextualized in the debate that we have been trying for years to pursue on constitutional reforms, in the very tiring attempt to recover the strong reasons for a structure and modernisation of the institutions that make democracy more vital and stronger in a way that is consistent with the times. It seems to me that politics, as Churchill said, is destroying values. After the first reading of the constitutional reform, with the tan we handed over to the text fired by the Senate, we are preparing to do the second act: the electoral law. This is a way to create a further short circuit in the relationship between the square and the palace and to nothing is worth recording the percentages of access to the vote in the last elections, in particular that 37% of Emilia in the regional elections, which questioned consciences and led us to reflect on the reasons for the disaffection and why the level of credibility that politics has in the collective imagination is now in the percentage... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u83	I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u84	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). For these reasons, Mr President, I would not want de Gaulle to be right, so politics is too serious to make politicians do it. I would not like, at a particularly delicate time, when politics should regain the face of responsibility - indeed, I say more; of the ethics of responsibility - to abandon ourselves to absolutely unhealthy decisions such as to vulnerate the relationship between elected and elected. Senator Gotor's amendment, even in a timid way, goes in the direction of recovering the principle of participation with the need for the citizen to be able to vote for his candidate. I would like to hear, Mr President, the voice of so many Members with whom, even in the last parliamentary term, we have supported these reasons: the reasons for participation and the reasons for returning to the voters the possibility of indicating their Members, who today have given silence and resigned immobility to their political decision. A whip on Parliament's conscience is necessary to turn the page and deliver a perspective of democracy to our country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u86	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u87	Mr Fornaro (PD). Mr President, although I am not one of the signatories to this amendment, I shall be voting in favour of it, which is why I disagree with my Group. I did not sign it, because later, if we get there, there will be a more complex amendment of mine that goes at the heart of the issue of multi-name colleges, 463 and not 100. I would also like to help myself and everyone understand what we are voting for. The premissive amendment to Senator Gotor's first signature is not the amendment of the electoral law: it is an amendment that intervenes on a single aspect, which is that of the way Members choose. It does not intervene on the rest of the architecture. The method of choice, I would like to remind you, is the heart of democracy. In this regard, there is one issue that has not been mentioned here until now. We are voting on this law after an intervention by the Constitutional Court; the model presented to us by the 100 capilists has a vice: it does not predetermine the number of elected who do not pass to the scrutiny of preferences. From this point of view, we could find ourselves in situations that are not predictable. And in fact, I have read in these weeks all the possible numbers, everything and the opposite of everything, because this system in the limited cases could allow a certain scenario to emerge. We have to face reality and I would also like to remind Senator Quagliariello, who has mentioned some aspects. That is, if we vote tomorrow morning, and take for example the last available poll, that of IPSOS on the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), the future House would be composed as follows: Democratic Party 340 elected (100 capilist blocked, plus 240 with preferences); Movement 5 Stars 97 capilist; Forza Italia 70 capilista; Lega Nord 60 capilista; SEL 18 capilista; NCD 17 capilista; Fratelli d'Italia 15 capilista. The future House would consist of 387 not elected through preferences and 240 elected with preferences. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and M5S Groups.]] I know what the objection has also been made to me by my party's secretary, namely that the number of people elected with preferences would be increased through the use of multiple candidates. I would point out that the three main parties (PD, 5 Star Movement and Forza Italia), in line with what has been said, will hardly use the instrument of multi-candidates, so technically and mathematically multi-candidates, at most, could go to affect around 10 percent. With this law, we would go to elect a Parliament that would have between 50% and 60% of non-elected through preferences. These are the numbers and this is the reason why I will vote for this amendment, because it does not affect the overall architecture, it has nothing to do with governability, it refers to the issue that is at stake today: it is not so much a question of pinball - let me say Senator Quagliariello - but the other game more important than how, in democracy, you choose your parliamentarians. We are not in love with preferences, but we are certainly not prepared to accept a Parliament with a majority. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and Misto-MovX groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u88	Colleagues, let us free the hemicycle, let us not attack with the demands of Minister Alfano, who can safely play his role without being disturbed by his colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u90	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u91	DI MAY (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I will not waste time on the technicalities of Senator Gotor's amendment, on which I shall vote in favour. However, at a time of great confusion in this House - as you yourself, Mr President, have pointed out - I, who still have a vice in memory, went to take up an article, which I would like to leave in the availability of the Senators of Forza Italia and the Democratic Party. Very often it happens, among other things, that great thinkers and great intellectuals are used as fig leaves, so I would like to recover some intellectual honesty in this House by reading some passages in an article by Norberto Bobbio, published in "La Stampa" in 1994, because they point a bit to the paradox that we are living in this House today. Norberto Bobbio wrote: "Against the Berlusconi government it has been unleashed since the beginning, and has continued in these weeks with an irresistible crescendo, a ruthless "hunt for mistakes" (...). Sabino Cassese of errors in the recent statements of the government marks them with analytical rigour (...)...... some. It rightly attributes them to a "ridutive" conception of the State for which "the majority must take everything" and to the continuous confusion of the State with the government, from which the "wrong" idea arises that the State is at the service of the government, while the opposite is true: "the government at the service of the State." (...). Historically, the rule of law, which is the product of liberal doctrine, precedes the advent of democracy, as it came into being after the establishment of universal suffrage. Not only does it proceed, but it conditions it, as any government, even the democratic government, outside the structures of the rule of law, runs the risk of becoming, no less than any other, despotic. (...) (............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ And again: Even if a little hastily, by "state of law" it is generally understood, since ancient times, the government of laws opposed to the government of men (...), and according to which all citizens, and if ever more rightly the rulers, are subject to laws whose purpose is to limit their power. In the rule of law, no one, even the highest degree of law, is legibus solutus (dissolved by legal constraints). Finally, the rule of law in the full sense of the word is that in which all power is limited not only by laws but by human rights, recognized by the liberal constitutions, in the face of which the majorities, although legitimated by the consent of the electors, must bow respectfully, and must do so because they are universally interpreted as rights whose existence precedes the establishment of the government, and no government, even that which has the consent of the majority of citizens, can unpunishedly violate them. Mr President, I wanted to quote these words because very often very fine thinkers like Norberto Bobbio are being used to the detriment of those who are obviously unable to testify to the same positions in this House. At a time like this, the signals have been repeated for some time now, from constitutional reforms to the laws that this Government wanted to approve, they tell us that the democratic system of our country is at risk. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u94	BEEPS (PD). Mr President, you will catalogue the meaning of my speech. I address you, the Groups and the Minister. I have listened to very serious, intelligent and passionate speeches on the Gotor amendment, as it is right that it should be at the beginning of the vote, as this is a very sensitive matter. We are debating the electoral law in an exceptional situation: we are without rapporteur and without a text drawn up and voted by the Commission. In the electoral law there is a lot of politics but also a lot of technicality. This is not a clash in the substance of the text that we must vote on and hand over to the other branch of Parliament, in order to produce an electoral law that does not concern us but an objective, a value, to recover a relationship with the people and with the citizens. The real objective of the next few hours of debate and vote I think should be how we improve the text approved by the House of Deputies, since we do not have another one. I would like to address you, Mr Calderoli and the Groups: can an end be avoided in itself? I therefore ask you, Mr President, who is a signatory to thousands of amendments: can your Group, the groups that have signed hundreds of amendments, Mr Gotor, my colleague Mr Esposito, reflect and accept a message that I am very spontaneous to address to them, withdrawing its amendments and allowing the House to concentrate on the fifty fundamental amendments that have been tabled? Do not judge me the last of the Japanese: I still believe in the value of comparison, that you can avoid long sessions without producing a result to improve the text. Thank you, Mr President, thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u95	Senator Giovanardi informed the Presidency that the statement in explanation of vote he made was referring to the subsequent amendment tabled by Senator Gotor, 01.102 (text 2) and not to what we are going to vote on. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 01.101 (text 2), tabled by Senator Gotor and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 01.102 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u98	Mr Gotor (PD). Mr President, I again take the floor for an explanation of vote. Compared to the previous amendment, I would like to thank, one by one, the 116 senators who supported it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Compared to the previous amendment, Amendment 01.102 (text 2) - I ask the attention of the House - presents three new elements. First of all, it takes on a safeguard rule. There has been so much discussion over the last few months. Personally, I would have preferred Parliament not to be treated like an old milk bag and therefore not to talk about dates but about reform processes: on the one hand, the electoral law and on the other, the reform of the perfect bicameralism, which must continue and which sees us engaged. But that's it. This amendment has a date, 1 July 2016. Then there is, in the wake of the corrections made in this House earlier, a 3% representation threshold. Finally, I would like to point out that there is the possibility, I stress the possibility, not the obligation, of appearance in the event of a ballot. This seems appropriate to us, and it seems appropriate to those who have signed it, for two reasons that I would like to remain in the proceedings: firstly because this possibility of appearance in the second round in the event of a ballot strengthens the government proposal, the legitimacy further bringing more voters to the vote and this is all the more important insofar as we are inserting into the system a majority injection with majority prizes that will be important, in the event of a ballot, that they be accompanied as much as possible by as many Italian citizens who will vote on the winning party. Then there is a second reason and I ask you to listen to it because it is the one that is most important to me: the possibility and not the obligation of appearance offers greater flexibility to the system and flexibility, in an institutional system that has its balance and its delicateness, a bit like in life, is always a positive value and can become in emergency situations a precious resource. Even electoral laws, in fact, are written when the peoples are sober; indeed, most of the time they are written when the writer is convinced to gain the greatest possible advantage. But those laws must apply even when those peoples are or become drunk. So let's think about it now, let's vote on this amendment now so that in three, four or five years' time we can not join the choir of new indignant people, once again against a Parliament of appointed people, once again against a Parliament that, if disqualified, contributes to the difficulty and trouble that Italian democracy is experiencing. I add a notation no less secular for Senator Quagliariello who is rightly fond of the so-called pinball rule that has been devised in the last few minutes of delivery of the text of the maxi amendments of the Leaders and of the majority: I understand that the pinball rule is important; but, be careful, because at this moment, in these hours, we are playing, in my opinion, something more important than a pinball. We are playing the quality and the characters that the Italian political system will assume in the coming lustres. As Aldo Moro said, a man I've studied for a long time and who I've learned to admire, drive and not be guided is the destiny of the greatest Italian party. The Democratic Party today is the largest Italian party and has a responsibility that is also a national responsibility and that must refer to a system seen as a whole, not just looking at the interests of a party. That is why I ask the whole House to support this amendment in its second wording. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u101	MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I shall vote in favour of Senator Gotor's amendment 01.102 (text 2), because I believe that every measure should be consistent. If we aim, as we wish, for a kind of bipartitism, it is clear that we should have high thresholds and list prizes. If instead we aim for a scheme that aims to secure the government of the country through the coalitions, we need low thresholds and coalition prize. Putting together the list prize with the low thresholds I think is absolutely contradictory; if you don't want to photograph only the current political scenario at your own use and consumption: a great party (what you call the nation or something not important) so many parties around and a party of medium proportions perpetually relegated to the opposition. This ambition is on the one hand intentional and on the other dangerous. It is volitional because those who want to put the shirts of force to politics, with electoral laws, always achieve results contrary to the objectives that have been given. It's a tradition. Secondly, because such an operation poses considerable problems in terms of representation: avoiding giving the possibility, between shifts, of extending the majority of government, there is a risk of giving to a party with 35% of the votes, but perhaps even less, 55% of the seats in parliament. The conditions for a galactic distance between representation, which the majority of government has in Parliament, and that which it has in the country, are created. Moreover, no less important, this law is deprived of a virtuous function. Closing the coalition scheme does not trigger a process of attraction, and therefore of approach, of the most radical forces to the themes of governability, but leaves them at the mercy of their limits. And this, in a phase of economic crisis like the present, is extremely dangerous for the country's estate. The last problem, but perhaps first in terms of importance, is that the combination between this electoral law and constitutional reform risks introducing an extremely authoritarian system. If you go to the list prize with blocked lists you will eliminate any dialectical space within the majority. There is no coalition dialectics, there is no dialectics in the party. The leader of the party that takes the prize becomes the undisputed dominus of the political system, because it has a greater power than that of a President directly elected by the citizens, but a lesser legitimacy. As I said in the past, we do not even create a Putin, but even a Breznev. Finally, there is a serious problem that concerns all parties in the right-hand centre. With this measure you have the possibility to introduce the coalition prize, a fundamental instrument in this phase of fragmentation of the moderate deployment, in order to be competitive in applying for the government of the country. To say "no" to this amendment means to abdicate, self sink and give to this left unclear the government of the country for the next ten years. In a word, it means betraying one's own voters; it also means giving in to this Government over everything in exchange for more or less clear promises in the future; it means giving up representing a substantial part of this country and giving it to others; it means relegating oneself to a secondary role, of gregari, in the political scenario and supporting an increasingly unpopular Government without being part of it; in short, it means surrendering to a sad epilogue.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u102	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 01.102 (text 2), tabled by Senator Gotor and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 01.103. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. Colleagues, to give order to the work, I would like to invite you to inform the Presidency of the names of those who wish to speak and, above all, if their position is more or less representative of the Group's position, since, as they say, we are now dealing with the 'ciccia' of the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u103	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it would seem that we have reached the heart of this debate of ours, provided that we can call what, by now it is clear, is a Trojan horse in order to be able to conclude this debate in a convenient way for the majority. I understand that most of my colleagues - those who now feel protected by the Nazarene Pact - may not be interested in listening to this debate, but we will do it, first of all in the interests of the citizens, but also in the respect of those who have had the courage to take the floor to express dissent from their Group, a dissent which, with all due respect, I can only say marginal, given the outcome of the vote. It is a dissent that may also be marginal in numbers, but certainly not from a political point of view, because it is clear that these first votes have made it clear that there is a new majority supporting the Renzi Government, of which we must take note. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that some of us often venture here in the Senate inside the Maccari Room, perhaps to give an interview, perhaps to meet some people or even just to read some newspapers. Perhaps it wouldn't hurt if someone looked up at those symbolic paintings, those frescoes that stand on the walls, including, in particular, the one that recalls Attilio Regolo and the principle for which "pacta sunt servanda". Some will certainly be able to say that there is no better proof than what we have today of the fact that the pacts are being respected. However, I would like to ask, and particularly those who voted against the previous first-signed amendments by Senator Gotor, to think carefully before voting in favour of the amendment tabled by Senator Stefano Esposito. How can we define it? Merdinellum? Espositum? This amendment, in fact, Mr President, is linked to the interests of those who promise their place in the next elections and will not allow those who sit in here to respect the one pact to which they should really keep: the one that binds us to the citizens, to whom we owe respect to the election. This is the difference between us and those who today have chosen to support the Renzi Government in these votes. We respect the pact that binds us to voters and citizens, who ask us to maintain democracy in this country, to make sure - after this Parliament has also been declared by the Constitutional Court elected on non-constitutional grounds - that we can give the next Parliament a Senate elected by the citizens, who can choose. In here, instead, there are senators who choose today according to another covenant, a pact of which no one really knows the content and in which, depending on the convenience, this or that element enters or exits. We say that there must be political responsibility for this. We refer to those senators who, in disagreement with the PD, have chosen to vote against the indications of their party and who will make a consistent choice with this line on this amendment as well. And the same applies to the few senators within Forza Italia, in which one recognizes a freedom that does not correspond to the party that, until recently, was called People of Freedoms. Mr President, we shall vote against this amendment, first of all for the very reason that it led to its presentation. We were able to verify yesterday in the debate in this House that it was presented in such a way that I fail to define fraud, concealing the existence of the same senators and preventing submission of sub-amendments. And what is this if not a Trojan horse? And here, yes, we recognize to Senator Esposito the cleverness, probably not generated by that bad faith that someone wanted to attribute to him, but the cleverness of those who then wanted to use this instrument as a Trojan horse to prevent that there could be in the continuation a free debate. Dear Senators, let us remember what is written in this amendment. By the way, Mr President, until now we have seen amendments that have been transformed into agendas, but that there could be an agenda that has been transformed into an amendment had to date been obscured in this Senate. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Amendment 01.103 reads as follows: This law, by means of the necessary amendments to the single text of the rules for the election of the Chamber of Deputies and the other provisions in direct correlation with the same modifications, shall establish the rules for the election of the Chamber of Deputies. And here you open two points and follow a nice list. Nor is it finally established, as the law should do, but it refers to future final coordination. You don't even trust him. The government does not ask for confidence in a delegation, but even leaves it to the offices of the Senate to coordinate the provisions in the final act. That is what is being done with this amendment, which is an agenda transformed into an amendment and which provides for a proposal for coordination, which will be done by officials: not by legislators and not even by the government in the form of delegation. Everything had been seen, but I ask myself and ask you: how long do we have to endure these abuses? Quo usque tandem, Catilina? How long is this boldness and will? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]] I repeat to the Senators of Forza Italia that we will also play your part in defending the right-wing voters and moderate voters that you are betraying. You respect the Nazarene covenant, which is a pact between individuals. We respect the sacred bond that binds us to our constituents and the freedom that we want to defend. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] 12:24 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u105	You have it, Senator Lo Moro.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u106	In what capacity does he intervene? On behalf of the Group? LO MORO (PD). No, Madam President, I am speaking in a personal capacity. In fact, I am speaking to announce my vote against this amendment 01.103 but, at the same time, I am voting against some senators who are part of what others call a minority. I hope this identification is enough, but we will see from the vote who these senators are. I therefore take the floor to announce my vote against, to enter into the substance of the amendment and to clarify why we do not vote in favour. Some elements have already been introduced in the debate that took place yesterday. I myself, speaking when we were discussing the Rules of Procedure... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Lo Moro, I didn't understand if you voted like your group. LO MORO (PD). No, I am dissenting from my Group to announce my vote against amendment 01.103, on which the Government has expressed a favourable opinion, and at the same time I am voting against a series of senators who will be visible at the time of the vote and whom I myself identified as a minority, using a terminology that belongs to politics. As I said yesterday, when we were discussing this amendment, even in a different context, we had said in many people that more than one technical amendment is an agenda. In fact, it contains a number of principles that are poorly innovative from a regulatory point of view and yesterday's debate was whether or not it was acceptable as an amendment. Today we are at a different stage which requires us to vote, which will be against. Why is a vote against and why is the vote against particularly important? In the meantime, it is particularly important because in this House it was the Government that gave a favourable opinion and a Minister who cares very much about the legislative technique and I say now why the legislative technique has to do with it. The vote in favour of this amendment would have devastating effects in a number of respects. The first aspect is that a number of principles would be introduced which clearly aim to prevent the discussion of the amendments, some of which are also shared by those who will vote against. It would therefore unnecessarily choke the debate, preventing a compact vote by the PD Group on principles which we share, on the contrary, which have been the subject of our battles. At the heart of the amendment is point (g), where it is stated that elected seats are proclaimed, up to the level of the seats that belong to each list in each constituency, first, the leaders in the colleges, and only subsequently the candidates who have obtained the highest number of preferences. This is a principle that we consider unacceptable. The other effect that the adoption of this amendment would have would be to introduce in the text an Article 1 which would be a sort of summary-Bignami of the content of the subsequent articles. Why does a government lend itself to such an operation? I do not discuss the legislative technique and the will of the presenter, who is, among other things, a single senator, but the Government with this amendment allows and causes a devastating effect, because it will remain in the text, as well as in parliamentary history, the fact that in order to stop a debate we have accepted an articulate that is nothing more than the summary of the subsequent articles. For all these reasons, first of all, we call on the Government - I think unnecessarily - to rethink its position and to draw the attention of all our colleagues to the fact that a debate is not being choked and legislative technique is not being changed in this way, because we would be called on to improve it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm gonna have to remind you of your time, Senator. LO MORO (PD). I'm done, ma'am. We would be called upon to improve a legislative technique that has certainly not been adequate over the years, but to innovate it as proposed at this time, would become a singular case of which it would remain trace in the history of the Republic. [[Applause from Senators Fornaro, Gatti, Barozzino and Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u109	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, in the interests of the development of the debate in this House with regard to the amendment that we are considering, I am here to ask you, on the basis of Rule 100 (11) of the Rules of Procedure, for the provision of amendment 01.103 to bring it back to its proper place, which is the Commission. Even Senator Lo Moro has just described, impeccably, the complexity of this amendment, which is rather a summary of a bill. Given the importance of this issue, I am asking you to put my proposal to the vote, which could also resolve the government's embarrassment and find a more appropriate solution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u110	Excuse me, Senator Santangelo, but the regulation you refer to excludes a vote from the House. It is the President who, in the interests of the debate, can assess the provision and referral back to the Commission. The matter has already been dealt with and the Presidency does not believe that provision should be made.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u111	Madam President, then I would like to make a slightly different point. I am here to ask the Presidency, on the basis of the importance and complexity of the amendment - it is more of a draft law - to reconsider the decision taken and to have the House decide if necessary. If not, it is precisely the Presidency that could take the decision to put aside, at this time, perhaps only this amendment, allowing it to be examined in the Commission, so as to find an appropriate rewording. Otherwise, it would put the Senate Chamber in a position to vote on something that is not purely an amendment, but something more complicated. Madam President, if you do not find reference in the paragraph of the article that I have mentioned, perhaps you can refer to some other regulation that allows the amendment to be moved to the Commission, and I would have nothing against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u112	Senator Santangelo, Regulation is not a supermarket where everyone can choose the norm. [[Comments of Senators Santangelo and Airola]] Excuse me, but you asked me. This is a faculty of the President. I do not think that we should contradict the Rules of Procedure by derogating from this procedure. Among other things, I would remind you that the House has already spoken on two occasions: once on referral back to the Commission, on which it voted against, and another yesterday on the admissibility of the amendments in question, on which there was a vote by the House. I'm sorry, but your request cannot be accepted. AIROLA (M5S). Let the electoral law be voted in an amendment! It's a big responsibility!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u115	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, yesterday, in my speech I have already stated - I think very clearly - my thoughts on this pseudo-amendment. In essence, I believe - and I would like to reiterate this here - that this is actually an agenda, which should therefore not have been made absolutely admissible by the Presidency. And, to be honest, I am sorry that precedents have been brought forward that have no relevance to an electoral law. 12:33 p.m. (De PETRIS follow-up). I also say - now there has been a change of presidency - Mr Calderoli, that it would also be appropriate to assess precisely the effect that this pseudo-amendment will have: to make a number of other amendments precluded. We are no longer on the amendative technique, but we are simply on the unscrupulous use of vulgar tricks. The Presidency, at the same time as it puts that amendment to the vote, should make a detailed list of all those who would be foreclosed if it were adopted. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and M5S Groups]] All those who have tabled amendments, and therefore the whole House, must have the exact knowledge of what effect they will have. And I also take the opportunity to answer to Senator Sposetti, who is not listening to me right now (Senator Sposetti is engaged in a conversation with another senator). Mr President, Senator Sposetti invited you to withdraw a large number of amendments, calling for dialogue and saying that we should not work on an electoral law in a warlike climate. It is now clear that this amendment is not a pseudo-defensive amendment. It is an amendment that sets out the tricks and, if the majority and the government really wanted to make a serious reasoning of dialogue, and therefore also scientific, on the effects - in many cases the electoral law requires that - we would not be here. Or perhaps we would be here with a text amended by the Commission and a rapporteur. We would perhaps be here, evidently, with a number of issues that could be addressed and even improved. I repeat: we have deliberately chosen war, we have once again chosen to override and use all the tricks, because we also know perfectly well that it was a trick to come to this House without a rapporteur. They did not want to take into account not only the words of our little opposition but, as we have seen, not even the proposals and arguments that also came from the same majority party. Yesterday I proposed to the Government that they have the courage to take responsibility for this pseudo amendment and submit it to the vote of confidence, also because in this way the misunderstanding that accompanies the Renzi Government would be definitively and formally dissolved in these months: finally also Forza Italia would vote for the confidence on this amendment and formally would be sanctioned in this Chamber the reality that was seen with the previous vote and with the same statements of yesterday's meeting. There would be an official entry of Forza Italia to all intents and purposes in the majority. The tricks have been chosen and the way has been chosen not to do serious work in the Commission, as happened on constitutional reform. This was not because there were so many amendments, but because it was only necessary to come here and have one of the many points of the Nazarene secret agreement ratified. I have invited you many times to make us finally learned, point by point, about this pact: we have spent our holidays on the tax decree and now we are completing the electoral law. Forza Italia will join this pseudo-amendment and I think it would be good, at this point, and an act of transparency to make us all educated. There are, of course, political points, but there seem to be other unspeakable points. But as you can see, you have the boldness every week to put to use the points of the agreement itself. Now, in this climate, we use yet another device to ensure that we cannot discuss so many issues that are and remain open here. Senator Quagliariello first explained how much they could bring home. He has also explained to us - I give him an act for his intellectual honesty - that all this reasoning on the prize to the list, on which moreover we are not in dissent, in reality it is another trick. You want to give life to the planks, to the federal pacts. I quote this example to say that a number of steps are being taken that will produce effects on which there has not even been a way of discussing in depth and which will change or crystallise or ratify the political and majority changes that have taken place in these hours and in the last month. I come to the substance of the amendment, which sets out a number of principles. First of all, the outcome of this amendment, as Mr Fornaro explained in a very effective way, will be that which, at the end of this whole operation and at the end (we hope not) of the constitutional reforms and electoral law that you propose, we will have a minimum percentage of people - women and men - actually chosen by the citizens. Therefore, the effect on disaffection from the vote will be - once again - devastating. I repeat again that it is not that you are inattentive. I have now absolutely convinced myself that this is exactly what you want: exactly you theorize and put in place the tools so that this is actually the destiny of the democracy of our country, where in the end it will go to vote only a minority of the country. It will happen as it does in the United States, where marginalised people, the poor and those with social problems must also be totally excluded from citizenship. This is - evidently - the political and institutional aim. You are consecrating an idea of democracy that is exactly the grave of parliamentary democracy: a democracy of investiture. The only thing you leave to the citizens is to be able to invest in power a leader. With this electoral law, without assuming the responsibility of incorporating it into a constitutional reform, you in fact include, as Senator Quagliariello said, the direct election of the premier without the counterweights. This is precisely a question of a democracy of investiture: the only thing that citizens will be able to do. There are also many inconsistencies in these principles: I say this because these issues, which we have repeatedly raised, deserved and deserved to be discussed and deepened by a Parliament. We are at a turning point in relation to parliamentary democracy. This House and Parliament as a whole have already been reduced to the conditions under which they have been reduced and can only obey and vote, but certainly not debate. But it is not only this: you are preparing yourselves, as a result of the combined arrangement with constitutional reform, to de facto decree the end of parliamentary democracy. For this reason, not only will we vote against, but - I repeat, Mr President - I formally ask you to list all the amendments that will be foreclosed if this amendment is adopted. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Gatti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u116	I'll surprise you with special effects, Senator De Petris.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u118	You have the floor, so you can finally explain the position.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u119	COCIANCICH (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists. I will be extremely brief, first of all by thanking Senator Sposetti, who, I believe, had put forward a proposal which seemed extremely sensible to me and which certainly, if it had been accepted, would have allowed that debate which many, in words, hope, but which they do not in fact practice. I am referring to that debate which has been made impossible - it is worth remembering - by the submission of 44 000 amendments. Because if we are here today to discuss without the rapporteur... [[Brusio.]] CRIMI (M5S). Yeah, right. AIROLA (M5S). It's a premier falsehood. Colleagues, I shall suspend the sitting if Mr Cociancich is not allowed to speak. [[Brusio.]] Everyone's looking around, but nobody's moving. If there is the same attitude, I will suspend the sitting. COCIANCICH (PD). Thank you, Mr President. As I was saying, I would like to remind you that the reason why we have come to this House today to discuss without the rapporteur is to refer to the presentation of such a number of amendments (44,000) as to make the debate in fact impossible. I have to say that it is really difficult not only to debate, but also to talk. I would like Senator Crimes, who I always listen to with interest, to let me speak, because I believe that respect is the premise. CRIMI (M5S). Yeah, right. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crimes, when it's your time to intervene, you can respond to what Senator Cociancich is saying. AIROLA (M5S). They're constantly dumping them! Violating the Constitution because of the amendments? Please! CRIMI (M5S). We had three weeks, we could vote on all those amendments! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cociancich, please continue. COCIANCICH (PD). Thank you, Mr President. Senator Sposetti had made a last minute appeal to a dialogue which, I note, was not possible, because none of the presenters of the 44,000 amendments accepted this request. Today, therefore, we have a choice on an amendment that has a merit: it consists of 33 lines that explain very clearly to the voters and citizens on which electoral law we are making a choice. It is an electoral law which, I would like to remind you, comes to the end of a debate that lasted more than a year and a half and which has found an important point of synthesis in the vote that took place in the House in March last year, which in the Commission has given room for hearings, a general debate and an important debate and which, in my opinion, finds a very important summary today on some of the novelties that are being introduced. For example, I find it particularly important from a civil point of view that a male-female alternation is introduced into the preferences: tomorrow we will have a Parliament which will be composed of at least 40% of the minority sex. I find this to be an extremely important and qualifying point. It has been recalled that this electoral law will allow a majority with a relatively modest majority prize: it will reach 55% and there will be a 45% left to the opposition. The point of preferences has already been discussed a moment ago, but I would like to remind you that the amendment by Senator Gotor, which just has not passed, recognized a 30% of those elected by a list and this mechanism that is introduced today perhaps has an even greater incisiveness: in fact, out of 100 colleges, so out of 100 people who will be elected on the basis of a fixed indication, there will be for the majority at least 240 elected with the preferences, therefore below 30%, which was the threshold also indicated by Senator Gotor's amendment. There is certainly an issue that concerns the deployment that will not have the majority, because there will be 290 MPs for the opposition's deployment; it is clear that this rule also pushes the minorities to join, because it is clear that if minorities are extremely jagged their representation will probably be limited to the elected indicated with blocked capilists, but if the coalitions will have the ability to unite and therefore also to start a process of transformation of our political system in the bipolar sense, which is a point of approach that has always been desired in our country, also this issue of blocked capilists will not exist for the minority. Finally, I reject with all the force that I have the very unfair accusation that here we are trying to introduce a law with tricks. This is a disqualifying way of representing reality. A few minutes ago, we voted, without accepting it, on the amendment tabled by Senator Gotor, which was voted by those who today accuse others of tricks. It was an amendment that had a reordering function of virtually the entire electoral law, as well as the amendment tabled by Senator Stefano Esposito. THE COURT (PD). That's not true! COCIANCICH (PD). How was it possible, a few minutes ago, to vote on an amendment, which in fact summed up all the electoral law and which was fine, while now, since the content of this amendment is not welcome, is the others accused of making tricks? This is a totally unacceptable way of arguing. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We don't do tricks, we haven't done tricks, we haven't tabled 44,000 amendments. We are tabling an amendment which clarifies to the citizen what Parliament wants. By reading these 33 lines, everyone will know tomorrow what the electoral law will be like. That is the reason, I believe, also moral, which justifies the Democratic Party's vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u121	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u122	MINEO (PD). Mr President, I shall vote against Senator Esposito's amendment, because I do not agree with its method or its substance. As for the method, it is impossible to think that this is an anti-obstructionism amendment, as it comes after that incomprehensible act for which the electoral law was framed at dawn, after a long and difficult night sitting. Why did he do this? What was the urgency of approving the electoral law before the election of the President of the Republic was discussed? I answer this question with my disagreement on the substance. Senator Stefano Esposito is a good journalist: if I were still in my previous working life, I would propose it for recruitment, because in only 33 lines he managed to synthesize the whole of Italicum. What does this say together? That you want a Premier, let's call him more simply mayor of Italy, appointed practically by direct universal suffrage, because the Premier brings with him the majority prize, if he takes 40%, and is elected in the ballot against another person, then with a participation equal to the election by direct universal suffrage. Instead, Parliament, on the contrary, the only House that remains after the Senate mess is elected with proportional representation and with very different mechanisms, because there are blocked capilists, multiple candidacy, preferences, redistribution of the remains at national level. This means: that we will have a Premier with all the powers, knowing that the impact on the electoral law of constitutional reform will be that the Premier could also appoint the President of the Republic in the future; that we will have a Parliament that owes him everything, because the majority party will have 100 capilists blocked, 100 co-opted thanks to the majority prize or the ballot that the Premier won; that the opposition parties will have MPs appointed by their political secretaries. Moreover, the very introduction of the 3% single threshold in the current political system means that the fragmentation of opposition increases: therefore, even confrontation and control by the opposition will be more difficult. I conclude by quoting something that says Matteo Renzi who, after our debate in the Group, admitted that a law like Italicum is not in any Western liberal democracy, but says that soon everyone will imitate us. Why, ladies and gentlemen, is there no such thing as what you are about to vote for in any system of parliamentary democracy? Because in the majority system, like the Premier in Britain, the representative of the people is elected, which is linked to his Premier, but the Premier needs the representative of the people; in the presidential systems, instead, the President is elected, but Parliament is elected apart, so that he can exercise a function of control. Today this double track of Italicum means that we will have a mayor of Italy with all the powers and a House without even powers of control. Please think about it. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u125	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Mr President, we will vote against Amendment 01.103 and I will explain why immediately. A few days ago, a journalist asked me what the position we had on Italicum was. ex M5S. In front of my negative argument, that person told me that we had maintained the non-dialogant spirit of the 5 Star Movement. Now the same statement comes, in a sense, from Senator Cociancich. I replied with a consideration that I propose: the spirit of "all or nothing," the absence of high mediations does not belong to us; it belongs instead to this Government, which more and more is configured as that "PD more or less L" evoked by some. He doesn't listen and he makes a point of honor of it. Fortunately, the whole Democratic Party is not in this draft, nor is it the whole centre-right, fortunately; there is still a liberal presence in this Parliament. When Mr Quagliariello refers to a ruling democracy, he basically talks about something very similar to an investiture democracy, with all the power to the Premier; something with a vaguely South American taste. We're taking a bad road. We will not vote in favour of Amendment 01.103 by Mr Stefano Esposito and I would like to propose for journalists, for the birth of the law, the name "Espositum": everyone assumes his own merits and his own responsibilities in the face of history. Today's, ladies and gentlemen, is no small step. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u127	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u128	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, once again - and I apologise for this to my colleague Mr De Petris - I must contradict you. Mr De Petris, I apologise: I am addressing the President and the whole House, of course, but I am asking for your attention for a moment, because I need to clarify and specify that your statement does not respond to the truth. You see, Mr De Petris, not all Forza Italia is devoted to this collective and piloted suicide, as we were in the room in front of that of death, in a sort of political euthanasia. But, for the good of Forza Italia and overall of that role that Forza Italia has always exercised since it existed within the center-right, we think it is very useful to draw attention, through the vote against amendment 01.103, to the need for a guarantee for the center-right, which must be able to return to meeting in a joint proposal, prevented by this amendment. I am sorry for my colleague, Stefano Esposito, because he may not have had this intention; perhaps he had no other intention but to prepack a text. In this regard, I would like to reply to Mr Cociancich: the reality is not describing others; the reality is describing the way in which this amendment has been proposed, perhaps with some positive effect, that is to reduce the debate and the debate a bit, but certainly with all the vulnus of a strong irregularity and a deep wound to the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure, as well as the constitutional prerogatives that oversee this. I would therefore ask you, my colleague, to consider to the same extent (as in your balanced speech you appreciated Mr Sposetti's proposal) that the impossibility of voting on a law cannot be the fault of those who table the amendments. It is a common responsibility to succeed in achieving a defined text, which can, especially in the field of electoral law, represent the widest possible majority. Not all things must be done unanimously, and I am a witness, within my own party and within this House. I would like to conclude my speech by recalling to the hearts and consciences of colleagues of Forza Italia above all and of the centre-right in general, because there can be no reason in the world to sell off the future of a political history that cannot remain a story that will be quickly archived by the euthanasia that is being carried out and the future of an aggregation of moderates of centro-right that will not be recognized, pain the increase and the increase of the abstention, in the positions expressed by today's PD or by Matteo Renzi or by anyone else tomorrow takes the place of Matteo Renzi. A historical fact, relative to our country, says that there is a majority, sometimes silent center-right, and every electoral appointment proves it. What is involved in this measure, through this amendment that decapitates the debate in this House? What is the political crime that he carries out? That of determining by law that even those who lose will have guaranteed the positive and favorable result of the representation while not having the votes. Then it is against this sale that I call everyone's attention. You can't sell this assets for any reason.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u130	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u131	BRUNI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, with regard to Senator Stefano Esposito's amendment and its implications, I would like to start with the question of preferences, referring to what Senator Fornaro has already said, the perverse effect of Italicum and, in particular, with this amendment, the revised Italicum in the light of the majority's amendments: 240 seats put in the hands of voters in the face of 630 are very little, even in the light of the censures of the Constitutional Court's ruling. In particular, however, I would like to point out that the minor parties with the capilists blocked by the number two onward would not see any kind of competition and any hypothesis of election. So the parties that will get less than 20 percent of the votes (so the "minors," so to speak) would elect, according to the simulations that we have read these days, only the blocked capilists. So I'm told who's going to run for second or third place on these lists? I only think of some reckless or someone who needs twenty days of riding in the election campaign just for his own sake or for a very fine need of visibility in himself. I think that this is not democracy, but it would only serve to predetermine in the laboratory, in terms of the configuration of the new Parliament. Another important aspect is that of the list award that will bring, as we said this morning, even according to enthusiastic statements, to the lists where they will necessarily have to merge the minor lists. Well, these lists will be, and we have already tested them, the photocopy of those of 2008, when we had two big parties, PdL and PD, which the day after the elections started to fade. He first started the PD with the exit of Italy of the Values and ended up in glory the PdL with the split of the finiani. If this is the scenario that outlines Italicum and also the amendment Stefano Esposito, there are many reasons to vote against. On the numbers of previous votes, which are politically linked to what is happening with the vote on this amendment, we note that the votes of Forza Italia are decisive and that, as some say, we are moving towards a new majority scenario and we do not know with what objectives and on what policy bases. If that is the case, however, in my opinion Alfano was right when he left because the Letta Government was no longer supported. Today there is a sudden change of thought. We take note of this dismay, knowing that there is no certain perspective, but ideas that move freely and that take us we do not know where. [[Applause from Senators Liuzzi and Formigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u132	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u134	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, in view of the presence of Mr Alfano, we could ask him to answer the questions that we asked in the Commission and which we proposed again yesterday, to which no reply has yet been given. Today could be a good opportunity to speak to the Minister. In this sense, therefore, I call on the Presidency to hold a small session, perhaps half an hour, in which the Minister can only tell us if, at this moment, we are in a position to vote tomorrow or if there are still no rules, which is what the Ministry of the Interior should be dealing with. CASTALDI (M5S). Alfano, we're talking to you!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u135	I call on my fellow Members to release the Chamber; otherwise, I will be forced to suspend the sitting for 10-15 minutes, or at least for as long as it takes to make it clear to my colleagues that they are not interested that they can also stay outside the Chamber. FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Do not just threaten him, Mr President: do you really stop the sitting? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ferrara, don't rebel against my calls. I'll call you back for the first time. Please, Senator Crimes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u136	The 26,000 amendments (not 44,000) were all dismissed, in the night between 19 and 20 December, with the blow of the incardination of the provision on the electoral law on the morning of 20 December. Work on the measure was resumed in mid-January: there was, therefore, all the time (25 days) to be able to vote on it. What has happened is not usable as an excuse and please do not bring back to that situation the fault of what is instead your violation of the rules. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would like to give you a message that came to me yesterday from a citizen: The feeling, looking at the House and the work of yesterday's Chamber, is that the Senate is in exhaustion, form and substance in nothingness, against the dignity of those who still compose the Assembly. This is the image that is perceived on the outside. It seems like a house we're abandoning: it's as if, after the rental time has expired, we're moving now, so we don't care about the house anymore. In fact, this Senate is abandoned, so you no longer care for the institution (or house) that would have been there if we had just entered. This is the image that we are giving, of a house, of an abandoned building: the institution of the Senate at this moment is considered as something that is collapsing, that is being unraveled. This, I repeat, is the image that we give to the outside, first of all violating the rules that have been trampled on more and more: it is as if, now at the last moment, we could do anything, so there will be no more practice, because there will be no more Senate of today: there will be the Senate of the appointed by the Regions, which will have a marginal role, even if it costs the same, because in the end it will be so. That is the impression we have. I would also like to remind my colleagues who talk about Prime Minister Renzi, that Prime Minister Renzi is also their party secretary. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I am referring, in particular, to my colleagues in the Democratic Party who are very contesting the action to have an electoral law such as the one under consideration, which is almost the law of the mayor of Italy, as someone has called it, a definition that we have always given, among other things. Remember that Renzi is your party secretary, as well as being the Premier, so it is within the party that you should reevaluate his position. The other appeal I make to the colleagues of the NPD, indeed, NCD - excuse me, but between NPD and NCD it is easy to get confused - recalling them to a last regurgitation of pride, since in recent months, since the NCD was born, we have seen dishes, silent, completely flattened on every decision that comes from Prime Minister Renzi. You seem more like the party of Secretary Renzi of the Democratic Party, which in this sense is much more lively and vibrant in the internal debate than yours. I therefore call on those in the NCD who have a little pride to also consider rejecting this amendment, which is not clear how it can stand and how it has been declared admissible. However, to reply to Senator Cociancich, the same applies to the previous amendment Gotor and to all others. The problem concerns the whole system of amendments and the way in which they have been structured. And let us not hide the fact that they have been structured in this way, specifically in order to reach the amendment Stefano Esposito. I am also referring to the Gotor amendment and other amendments, because otherwise Amendment 01.103 could not be justified. Now you, Senator Cociancich, apologise for the Gotor amendment. But this has been tabled specifically to arrive at the Esposito amendment, which does not stand up and makes no sense. It is in fact an amendment that introduces what will be an electoral law, but we have not yet adopted and whose amendments we have not yet voted on. In theory, if this amendment were adopted and the subsequent amendments were not adopted, would it remain an amendment that lays down criteria and then, perhaps, will it all be the opposite? But this is legislative cleverness and not legislative technical, as someone wanted to call it. This is a deception: it is a scam to all intents and purposes. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami]] Going down on the merits of the amending proposal, this is a premissive amendment that, as Senator Mineo said, I would rather see as a post, an enlarged tweet: it is the synthesis of the electoral law. If a journalist wanted to write an article in 33 lines, he could write that the electoral law will be this. The whole electoral law is concentrated in amendment 01.103 which, as some have said, is closer to an agenda than an amendment. The amendment in the vote includes the majority prize, which is not awarded only if the list takes 40%: I would like it to be clear that the majority prize is awarded anyway and always; it has not been abolished and it is always abnormal, because whether or not you go to the ballot the majority prize is always there. Even at the ballot, however, there is the majority prize, which can even reach the second list and not the first. Not to mention the blocked capillaries, which are now an issue. Senator Quagliariello first thanked me for having had the intellectual honesty to declare that the will to make the capilists with the multi nominations was linked to reducing the amplification effect of the nominations. But he omitted what I said later, namely that this shows that the blocked capilists go against the citizens' request to be able to choose their own elected representatives. This failed to add it, because that prediction was a "piece" that you had to put in to try to limit the damage. It is an electoral law that includes lists, rather than coalitions, and I have to tell you the truth about that. As a Group, perhaps the only measure we see with pleasure is the abandonment of that abomination that was the coalitions. However, there is a doubt that what happens in the municipalities will happen, because the effect that will be produced will be the same. Here we return to the speech of the mayor of Italy and it is always the same law to be applied: but the municipalities are administrative entities and not legislative entities. We will therefore have a listone, in which perhaps the party symbols will no longer appear. This will be the technique for reverging itself, to present itself in the next clean elections and to be able to say "I was not." I remember every time I talked about the Democratic Party and the choices of the past, someone would say, But we were born four to five years ago, we weren't there before! It was someone else. As if I were talking about NCD and I was told that before there was the PdL while the New Right Center was born a short time ago. That's what's gonna happen. There will be lists that you will call "Ulivo", "Querce" or "Asinelli", you will call them in every possible and imaginable way and the citizen will forget: he will forget that behind that symbol there was the Democratic Party, that had been the author of this law and of all the other scumbags that we have seen approved in this Senate and in this Parliament in this legislature! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u137	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u139	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I very much appreciate your conduct at this time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't ruin my reputation, Senator Airola! AIROLA (M5S). I believe that this House should be given additional flexible time for the debate on Amendment 01.103. It is already scandalous in itself, containing the entire electoral law, at least that it should be debated with a little breath and opportunity to intervene!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u140	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u142	Orellana (Mist). Mr President, we have all understood the importance of amendment 01.103, which will serve to give the law an overall system. However, we cannot forget the rules in force in this Senate and when an amendment does not bring news to the law in question I do not think it should be considered. Well, there are some points, certainly the letter h) which concerns colleges, which brings no novelty to the text of Act No. 1385. In fact, what does the letter h ) say? As I was trying to say yesterday (when, rightly, the rotating presidency blocked me), it states: "The electoral colleges are determined by legislative decree to be issued within the deadline and according to the guiding principles and criteria laid down by this law". This nothing innovates with respect to the fact that there is already an article 3 of the bill that is titled own "Delegate to the Government for the determination of multi-name colleges". I therefore believe that even the presenter (who perhaps acted, as we have been told, in a certain hurry) wanted to put something more into the amendment, if we do not want to think wrong, namely that this has been done scientifically to block the vote on other amendments. Another point that I am interested to highlight is point (g), which has already been pointed out, according to which it is expected that both the leaders and those who will have greater preferences in the constituency will be elected. I believe that the right idea is to count the greatest preferences in the college, while the text refers to the constituency. Probably, from Senator Stefano Esposito it is a mistake and I believe that this leads at least to a "text 2." It seems incredible to me to propose amendments to an amendment, but I believe that the sentence in point (g) should be completed by adding, after the words 'number of preferences', the words 'group', otherwise reference is made to the constituency. If Italian is not an opinion, I would ask you to review all the various points of amendment 01.103 and possibly divide them, since they affect all the issues and on some my vote, for example, would be in favour while on others it would be absolutely against. On the other hand, they are selling us the complete package, with the particularity that in at least a couple of points - like the aforementioned letter h) - the amendment does not bring any news to the text of Italicum. [[Applause from Senator De Pin and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u143	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u144	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u145	Tarquinio (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, first of all I would like to make a mistake: in the vote on Senator Gotor's second amendment, 01.102, I voted against, while he is in favour. It would be absurd if we had made a mistake: the vote was therefore in favour. For the rest, we are about to vote on Stefano Esposito's electoral law. I don't have to go back and say what I think. I have said this about preferences and I say it about everything else: I express a totally negative opinion, because the bill does not guarantee any form of democracy. The political fact that emerged from the vote is that the majority that held this government in fact is no longer there, on an important subject such as this electoral law. Tell me then and tell everyone that there is a new majority, that we do not know how it is extrinsic and whether it is a majority of national unity, that it has been banned by all, even by the leaders of my party and that it seems to be there today. A political response must be given. It may be that if there is a majority of national unity, not on electoral law but on other issues, I might also take different decisions and attitudes. But we should understand why: we declare this politically. I believe that this law will be an iattura. I consider our support for this measure to be inappropriate. I believe that values and ideals must be respected. For some, these are ridiculous words, but I would just like to say that these values and ideals, sooner or later, will come back, after these twenty years of disasters, some kind of populisms. I hope that the consciences of each of us will occasionally rebel and do not think of saving their own armchair, which in any case will not be saved. In fact, if we go on this path, I do not believe there is hope for all those who are accustomed to always saying yes, to bowing their heads and to being afraid. I'm not in that category. I have values that come from my political history of over forty years, that I keep inside and I want to bring with me, with the utmost respect for the ideas of others, but always affirming the ideals and the world from which I come. I am surprised that many colleagues are giving up on themselves, on their own ideals, while respecting the ideas of others. That's it. This is an unfortunate day, as was the day of the abolition of the Senate. It is an unfortunate day when we voted for the Provinces, as it happened. We're destroying all the elective assemblies. Only some will decide. It is a monstrous and aberrant fact. Honestly, colleagues, I don't understand you. I ask for a whisper of dignity. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] And that's not all. It is not just a matter of practicality in "seeing" when personal interests are involved. They will be empty words, but they remain mine, as I remain the beliefs and ideals of which I have spoken. I don't have anything else to say. I hope common sense prevails in everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u148	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, Senator Tarquinio has just stated that he made a mistake in the vote. In fact, he did not do it: he could not vote for or against, because at that time he was absent and Senator Aracri, who sits next to him, covering his voting position with a newspaper, voted in his place. That is why we are voting against and not in favour of it, and I call for it to be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you're better than a shorthand report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u150	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u151	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I apologise for the late announcement of my request to speak, and I thank the offices for their speedy registration. I have indeed delayed my registration because I was waiting for the majors and the majors of this House to intervene first. I expected Senators Zanda and Paolo Romani to intervene, because this - in fact - is the final explanation of vote on the bill: we are voting on the amendment of Senator Stefano Esposito and, therefore, we are voting on "the electoral law." I, at least, make this reasoning and, although advised to keep myself a little'more aside, not to charge with adrenaline my physique, because from this comes an excess of speech and a controversy sometimes too much push, it is true - as we have said so many times - that the controversy makes the favella fast, but also makes the mind lucid. And with this presumption of lucidity of thought, I would now like to make my explanation of vote on the measure under consideration. I am against this electoral law, but I am against it not because I am against journalist Esposito, as Senator Mineo has just mentioned. I must say, however, that, in this case, more than Stefano Esposito should be talked about his ghostwriter, because the article is too beautiful, and - I don't want Senator Stefano Esposito - I think the ghostwriter is really valuable. It is of value because in one and a half pages he has rewritten the electoral law, a bit different from how it was done in the second line with paragraph 1 of Article 1 of Law No 18 of 1979, where the content of Articles 21 and 22 was fixed. In this case it is even better, because it is said what is the content of the whole law. I do not believe in joining this law because it basically has two things against which we have fought in the last twenty years. I have the merit of being a referendary from 1992-1993 and I am wrong to have voted on the Porcellum in 2006; I want to remember more the merit than the wrong. I am ashamed of that wrong because, compared to a law that balanced between the disaster of preferences and the merit of choosing the chosen one and, therefore, the college, we have introduced a system that exists only in some so-called democracies, which they are not. It is said, in order to pass the assumption, that this system exists also in Germany, but in Germany, as we know, that 50% of the blocked list is subject to a verification within the parties, from which we still have so much to learn and not already to teach, as Renzi plans to do with the outcome, if positive, of this electoral law. Everywhere in the most advanced countries in the world there are colleges. I am not told that there are preferences in Belgium and Sweden. These are nations with a few million voters and, if we really want to do as they do in Belgium, we should bring in our system the same rules that exist in Belgian proportional representation, where a dinner can not be made for a candidate except with the presence of the candidate, where a specimen can not be distributed except in the presence of the candidate himself, thus decreasing the twist and the "disaster" of the vote of preference and, that is, that is, that the success of the vote of preference exists the more you have the possibility of communicating, the richer the candidate, the richer the richer the party is. It seems clear to me in this House that the only really rich party, even thanks to Sposetti, is the PD. Therefore, those who vote on this law commit suicide because it allows the richest party to be more successful. This, in fact, is not because, as my colleague said earlier, in this law there is the trick because the four fifths of the elect who will come from this law will be indicated by blocked list and, therefore, it is a deception. I come back to the reasoning made in the general debate, namely that we are discussing something that is so important, but not urgent, if not for someone. I do not agree with the urgency of this someone and when something is immanent and it is not urgent, but only important he makes a deception. I don't agree with this deception. I do not agree with voting on a law that introduces a system against which I have fought, against which I continue to fight, because I do not want my vote to be joined to a responsibility that those who voted on the Porcellum since 2006 have been charged and indicated. I don't want to be told in political meetings: You're an appointed person. I don't want this to continue to exist in this nation. I do not want Italy to be referred to as a Parliament whose elected representatives are chosen through a law that insists on the mistakes of the past. I sincerely do not want the choice of the President of the Council to be made by means of a misleading system, making Parliament almost a municipal council, a regional council. It is said that its majority must be guaranteed to the Government, but Parliament is such if it controls the Government. Assuring the government of its majority has no meaning, where this system surreptitiously indicates and votes on the President-in-Office of the Council. This means overturning the system of check-and-balance and control that Parliament must exercise over the government. With this system we introduce a suicidal system of democracy. This is something we need to be aware of, because laws are not voted on according to the best advantage: they are not voted on according to the percentage we think we have and the number that we think we have with the possible number of elected, so 100 colleges are almost 20% of 630 Members. So it is thought that those who have, or think they have, 20 percent with that system will have all its appointed names from the people. This is a deceptive system: one must realize this. Where my efforts cannot be made to convince colleagues, I just want to respond to my conscience that I, in conscience, am against this bill. I am against this amendment and I will not vote for it. [[Applause from Senators D'Anna and Tosato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u152	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u153	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u154	MUCCHETTI (PD). Mr President, there are moments like this, in which we feel the duty of conscience to leave our position to the record, not only with the exercise of the vote (which in this case, not in others, will be dissenting from my Group), but also with the reasons for it. I also appreciated, like Senator Cociancich, the invitation made by Senator Sposetti to withdraw the two conflicting amendments. I note that an invitation made in the same spirit had come from the benches of the League: precisely from you, Mr President, when yesterday you asked for the possibility of making a sub-amendment in exchange for the withdrawal of those tens of thousands of amendments which had the clear intention of holding back the work. However, this did not happen: it did not happen yesterday and fatally could not happen today, since yesterday we had already had the first counterproof. I believe that on the grounds of merit other Members have already spoken to clarify the reason for this position: for reasons of conscience. I insist on this point, although some of my colleagues in the Group are ironic about this and perhaps they are giving parasites to those who do not feel the same way. I am sorry - I am very sorry - but I think it is perhaps worth drawing a political conclusion from the debate which has developed this morning and which has as its preface, for example, the meetings of the parliamentary groups. Among these, there is the PD, which, as you will recall, took place in two stages: the first stage saw an extension by the Secretary and President of the Council, which then interrupted to allow the search for possible convergences. I did not understand if this research (I lack the information) took place within the PD Group, but I saw (because I read the newspapers) that this research took place in the relationship with Silvio Berlusconi. This is a political fact to take into account. If it had been carried out in the PD Group, it would have been a further research, carried out in a system of absolute transparency. What Mr Berlusconi and the President-in-Office of the Council have said is known to them, but the political agenda, which is not mysterious but is public, will shortly include the votes for the Presidency of the Republic and, subsequently, the resumption of the tax decree, which can allow the cancellation, if we did what has been announced, of the ancillary penalties, not only of the social services, which were imposed on Berlusconi and on which the Group to which I belong, no later than a few months ago, used to be extremely harsh, without any concession to the political opponent. I say that now, because then we'll see after what happens. I wonder what will happen, precisely, in the elections for the Presidency of the Republic. I wonder what will happen in the decree implementing the tax delegation, what exchanges there may be in the four-walled enclosure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Cucchetti. MUCCHETTI (PD). I'm going straight to the conclusion. I and other colleagues have not succeeded in tabling certain amendments. I regret not even finding a line - if instead of 33 lines had been 35, the Pulitzer would have been assigned the same to Senator Esposito's amendment - on the standardization of conflicts of interest of parliamentarians who are shareholders of companies that are part of the State, that is, operating under concession by the State. And yet, it was a PD battlehorse, I think I remember, but maybe I'm wrong. Why are we forgetting this? Perhaps because, as Senator Tremonti rightly said first yesterday and as many have then reiterated, there is a new majority and this new majority has now emerged plastically. After El Alamein, Winston Churchill said that it probably wasn't the beginning of the end yet, but it was probably the end of the beginning. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, Misto-SEL and Senators Bencini, Bignami, Campanella and Mussini Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u155	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u156	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u157	Mr Pegorer (PD). Mr President, I will only steal one minute from this House to declare that I will be voting in dissent from my Group. In my opinion, the heart of amendment 01.103 is to be found in particular in the system of 100 blocked capilists. With other colleagues, we have tenaciously pursued and proposed solutions and models that could unite the entire Group of the Democratic Party, better respect the judgment of the Constitutional Court itself and above all give citizens the opportunity to truly elect a majority of future Members. For these simple but significant reasons, Mr President, I am voting against Senator Esposito's amendment. [[Applause from the PD and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u158	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u160	DE PIN (Mixed). Mr President, I too welcome the invitation of Senator Tarquinio and Senator Mucchetti, although I have spoken in general debate; I also feel obliged to leave this moment in memory for us and for many very hard. I call it the end of democracy. I didn't think I'd get to this point. I'd rather stay out of it. I have to tell you the truth. However, for me it is the square of the circle of what we have read in the newspapers these days, or 0.1 or 0.01 that dominates over 99 percent. Here we are closing a historical path with an epochal passage, so I just want to reiterate, because this law will have the names and surnames of the voters, that I would like to go home to my territories and be able to say that I voted against this law. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u161	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u163	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I believe that we must always take advantage of the opportunities and Senator Sposetti made an appeal earlier, which was relaunched later and which I have also seen in the words of Senator Mucchetti and others. We are not particularly fond of the amendments that follow, but on this, if you want to continue in a serene way, you can still find alternatives and a way to give the Senate the dignity of choice. I therefore call for amendment 01.103 to be put to the vote by separate parties following the order of alphabet letters: from point (a) to point (i).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u164	Is there any opposition to this proposal? TONINI (PD). We're against it. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] The Assembly will decide in accordance with Rule 102 (5) of the Rules of Procedure. I put to the vote Senator Candiani's proposal to vote separately on amendment 01.103. It's not approved. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 01.103, tabled by Senator Esposito Stefano. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). DE PIN (Mixed). Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, at this point, I must give you communications on which I believe there should be the greatest attention of all. Following the adoption of amendment 01.103, with the signature of Senator Stefano Esposito, the amendments and sub-amendments containing provisions contrary to the content of the same amendment, listed in the list in distribution, are not included in the scope of Rule 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure (see Annex B). I note that, for the same reasons, all sub-amendments in any case relating to the amendments contained in that list will also be construed as pre-emptive. In addition, the Presidency, in accordance with the orientation already followed by the 1st Permanent Commission, considers it impossible, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, to amend 01.16, as well as amendments 1.3, 1.7, 1.9, 1.10, 1.12 and amendments 1.52 to 1.425 where they provide for amendments to the electoral law for the Senate of the Republic which are not transitional and directly related to the content of the draft law under consideration, which contains provisions on the election of the Chamber of Deputies. For the same reasons, it also states that amendments 1.21, 1.22, 1.12019, 1.12020, 1.7000/19, 1.7000/20, 1.7000/21, 1.7000/22, 1.0.17, 3.3, 3.4, 3.0.2, 3.0.2-a, 3.0.3, 3.0.4 and 3.0.5. It also states that amendments aimed at strengthening the security facilities of the places where the electoral consultations are held, as listed in Annex B, cannot be proposed under the same regulatory provision. In accordance with the criteria set out above, the Presidency also declares that amendments 1,9572, 1,9573, 1,9575, 1,9576, 1,7001/176, 1,12157, 1,12158, 1.0.16, 2.0.16, 2.0.17, 2.0.18, 2.0.19, 2.0.27, 2.0.28, 2.0.29, 2.0.800, 3.0.7, 3.0.8 and 3.0.9 as regards eligibility requirements for Parliamentary office; amendments 1,9284 to 1.929, 1.0.1 to 1.0.15 and 3.0.12 to 3.0.20 as well as amendments 2.0.30, 2.0.31 and 3.0.444 as regards electoral campaign and party financing are unacceptable. Finally, according to Rule 100 (8) of the Rules of Procedure, it declares inadmissible amendments without any real amending scope which will be indicated during the examination of the articles. Colleagues, on the basis of the list in distribution and in an indicative way, to give a dimension to colleagues, the foreclosures would be 35,000 and more amendments, compared with 47,000. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group. Happy comments. Recalls of the President]] SERRA (M5S). Shame! TAVERNA (M5S). Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, cheers after I've given all the numbers. The amendments foreclosed are approximately 35,000 compared to 47,000 tabled. The residues, of course, could then be the subject of further animal-related operations. Because of that, but because of the size and the possibility that not only colleagues... [[Brusio]] Colleagues, let me talk, otherwise we can't figure out what we're going to do. It is clear that not only do we need to examine the over 35,000 foreclosed amendments, but we also need to list the remaining ones, so that we can give an indication for the work of this House of what we are going to do. I would therefore like to postpone the sitting at 7.30 p.m., as set out by the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u165	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u167	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, what you have just explained to us, by the magnitude of the cataclysm that is taking place, shows that we have voted not only on an amendment, but, in fact, we have voted on a sort of referendum on the pinch coming from Nazarene. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] : Do you or do you not obey? Do you or don't you want to lower your head? And the Assembly replied: 'Yes'. Mr President, I need your attention. There is another serious aspect to the things you have just told us. At the time of the vote, the packages (which we could also call double packages or counter-packages) of the amendments that were going to lapse for various reasons were already ready; we had asked for their contiency before, in order to be able to give a responsible vote knowing what was going to be decided, also for the future follow-up of the debate. Well, this shows that everything was foreordained and in bad faith. She said it her way, we say it our way. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u168	For your peace of mind, Senator Endrizzi, almost all the foreclosed amendments are mine and perhaps there is one of yours.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u169	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u171	Martini (PD). Mr President, with regard to the vote on amendment 01.101, the record is that it is not a participant. I don't know if it was my mistake or a malfunction of the mechanism. I would therefore like it to be found in the documents I intended to vote in favour of the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u172	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u174	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, I would like to know when we heard that there would be 35,800 cash-in-the-box amendments? I attended the group leaders' meeting yesterday and this was a request that you made at that meeting just to know it well in advance.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u175	The news came about an hour ago and I thank the offices on behalf of everyone because it is the seventh night that they do not go to bed so that they can do this job. SANTANGELO (M5S). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Colleagues, I should like to warn you that we are not going to have the speeches at the end of the sitting today, because now there will only be a suspension so that anyone who wants can speak at 10 p.m. this evening. You have it, Senator Santangelo.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u176	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to my speech a few days ago on the memories of 1992 which are even stronger today. There's a bomb alarm near the courthouse in Palermo, via Papireto. Mr President, don't interrupt me because the time is very similar to 1992. This is the second bomb alarm. In fact, even tonight we had one in Viale Lazio, always in Palermo, near the house of two magistrates. Now, in front of all the filth that is taking place these days, if no one intervenes here it is as if nothing was happening. Mr Alfano comes to this House and has no word to say about these arguments. Mr President, I would ask you at this moment to speak for yourself, because what happened in 1992 in Palermo, today we breathe again, in the face of the indifference of all! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] So if there were to be sensitivity for you to be able to open a debate, even at 7.30 p.m. to resume work, a debate on these issues that are currently in Palermo and which concern all of Italy, that is, Mr President, probably the most appropriate thing. We also believe that Minister Alfano should come and report immediately! Immediately! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u177	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u178	What about it, Senator Taverna? We cannot surreptitiously introduce late-session speeches now.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u179	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, I knew that the House had to close at 3 p.m. Do you confirm that? Now a suspension has been made, but why? Why did we vote on the only amendment that was relevant? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In order to give way to everyone... TAVERNA (M5S). What do we all have to give? 35,000 amendments have also disappeared. Where do they have to go? What is there to do at this time to suspend the Chamber? Why do we not move forward with the vote?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u180	Because it is right for colleagues to know what they are voting on; we cannot vote without knowing it. I therefore suspend the sitting until 7.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.55 p.m. and resumed at 7.32 p.m.) The session is resumed. In order to give an order to our work, I would remind you that a number of amendments and sub-amendments have been declared excluded. In order to allow all Members present to follow the examination of the amendments, I would warn them that we will now examine some of the amendments contained in Tomo I, and then move on to Tomo X. In order to avoid all loading up volumes, I would recommend taking only the tomi I and X, so as to make this phase of the discussion tidy. As we proceed to examine the amendments contained in other headings, the Presidency will signal it. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 01.17. I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u181	The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined amendment 01.17, relating to the draft law in title, transmitted by the Assembly, expresses, as far as it is within its competence, an opinion which is not precluded by it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u182	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u184	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I do not ask to speak in an explanation of vote, but to make some clarifications which I believe should be made after 35,700 amendments have been tabled. President - I would also like to take advantage of Mrs De Petris' amendment - I would like to re-read the report of the sitting of 19 December 2014 and, in particular, the speech I made at 7.25 a.m. I said on that occasion: If we bring a measure without the rapporteur into the Chamber and act as a ban on the drafting of amendments and on the management of eligibility and everything else, it is likely that within two or three hours the measure will be voted on (articles, amendments and final vote). I don't think you want to do that. That's what I was asking the president. Therefore, when I hear someone boasting today that they have found a solution to the world's problems, it seems to me that hot water has been discovered, because this situation had already been seen on 19 December, at the time when the measure was incardinated in this House. Someone has decided to be a bandit, and we thank him. I am not referring, of course, to Mr Esposito, but to someone above him. However, I would also like the Presidency to consider the positions it has taken, because I would like there to be consistency between the positions taken in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and those of the House. I had already pointed out the problem, but I did not get an answer. In relation to the premissive amendments, it was said in the Commission that with regard to amendments from 01.1 to follow, i.e. all those relating to the entry into force of the electoral reform and transitional rules, the provision is made for them. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u185	Colleagues, we are discussing a measure in a complex process. Therefore, I would ask you to pay attention to what Senator Calderoli is telling us so that we can follow all the terms of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u186	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I remember what was said in the Commission about the amendments concerning the entry into force of electoral reform and transitional discipline. President Finocchiaro, obviously assisted by officials, had the provision of those amendments, considering it appropriate, for the sake of the economy of the work and the clarity of the examination, to treat similar amendments more appropriately formulated as additional to Article 3. This is the Commission's report, and I am not inventing it, Madam President. So I would like to see consistency with the attitude of the Presidency. Either he was wrong in the Commission and we are proceeding correctly in this House, or, vice versa, in this House, as I believe, on this occasion we are wrong in terms of political opportunity and we have had the right behavior in the Commission. However, as we have had the opportunity to suggest to President Grasso, there should be a modus in rebus. I was curious about the amendments tabled by the so-called Orthodox majority. Now, in fact, we can no longer understand what the real majority is and what the fake majority is, although I have noted that, of 30 votes against by the majority party, 22 voted against the amendment and eight did not take part in the vote. The Orthodox majority is no longer such, as it has been assisted and supported by 41 votes from the opposition. Frankly, then, I don't know what to think anymore. However, I have checked that none of the amendments by the real majority have been overwhelmed by the so-called 'kangaroo'. I do not want to be too mischievous, but I would think that, while I have seen the Esposito amendment on Monday evening, when it was sent by the offices, someone has had the opportunity to read it before and, therefore, to write the amendments so that they are not overwhelmed by the kangaroo. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] At this point, Madam President, since I do not want to ask you about every single subversion of what has been the presentation of the amendments, I wonder, however, about the modus with which this foreclosure took place. I see, in fact, a lot of amendments, like some of my own, entirely replacing the measure, which had a hundred paragraphs. Well, I cannot be told that there is one in discrasia among those 100 paragraphs compared to the approved Esposito amendment. Because if I am told that paragraph of that amendment is no longer in line with an approved amendment, I shall delete that paragraph. But it cannot be said that this amendment is not identical to the text that we should go along with. In fact, let me remind you that we have adopted an amendment here but the two amendments defined as 'call-back' have not yet been adopted, some of which have wanted to sign as members of the Group leaders and the majority. If the amendment tabled by Senator Finocchiaro and other senators were rejected, we would have, on the one hand, Senator Esposito's amendment 01.103 and, on the other, Article 1 of the so-called Italicum, which says exactly the opposite. In this sense, the Presidency has failed to declare its illegality. However, at this point, I am no longer content with anyone telling me that the amendment is different from the Esposito amendment, because I am prepared to give up whatever part is contrary to amendment 01.103, but you cannot throw away the baby with the dirty water as well, while that is what you are doing. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u187	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u189	Then we will summarize the questions posed by Senator Calderoli. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, in the last vote on Senator Esposito's amendment 01.103, it is clear from the press releases that I abstained; in fact, I think I was wrong and I would like to say that my vote is strongly opposed to the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u190	We take note of that, Senator Falanga. To Senator Calderoli, apart from his possible malice that of course no one suspects there can be, I would like to say as you know, that the lines followed in the Commission and in this House can coexist, especially since the reference seat in the Commission follows a different procedure from that of the House. As far as the preclusions are concerned, as you are also telling me, they relate to the whole text of the amendments which are being discussed and which are, in the order of vote, inserted after the main amendment which determines the preclusions. The Presidency therefore confirms the assessments already made.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u191	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u192	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u193	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, perhaps for the reconstruction of Senator Calderoli there is another more credible hypothesis, namely that that amendment was not seen before, but was dictated at that time because it corresponds to something that had already been agreed. I would like to remind you that it has been chosen to evaluate in bulk what was not an amendment but a complex agenda, in fact being the transcription into an amendment of part of the Nazarene Pact, basically a transcribed "pizzino." As Senator Calderoli rightly pointed out earlier, if there were not a vote in favour of the amendments tabled by Senator Finocchiaro and other senators, we would have to call this law "Esposito" law, but it would not be a law, it would be a preamble, a declaration of intent, really a miserable summary, however contradictory. The choice to vote collectively on that amendment today was of the majority, which cannot say that the minority's proposals are also rejected in bulk, even for that part that could be considered. I have seen my amendments foreclosed, which proposed an alternative electoral law, giving substance to what was to be Parliament's duty and in particular now the Senate, namely the transposition of the Constitutional Court's judgment, and, in third instance, presented our proposals for improvement, albeit on the basis of a different law. It is not possible to tear up the number, not the number, because we have tabled less than 30 amendments. That is not the way to tear things up. [[Applause from Senator Airola]] I would therefore ask you, Mr President, that what we have now been able to assess in detail should be reconsidered, and that each Group should be given the opportunity to table, in any case, a number of amendments which may give the right to stand, not to our people, not to our political groups, but to what we propose for the needs of the country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u194	I would like to remind you of what has already been said yesterday about these kinds of amendments, which have been tabled by different groups and by different senators from different sides. I say this precisely because Senator Esposito's amendment was approved by the Assembly but the amendment tabled by senators from other groups could have been approved. I mean it precisely. [[Senator Endrizzi repeatedly points out that he wants to intervene.]] Excuse me, Senator, we cannot open a debate, but I will give you the floor again to close the matter. As far as the development of the debate is concerned, we shall look at it, but the sequence of the vote should not, according to the criteria for the admissibility of the amendments, have consequences such as those you have feared. Did you want to specify anything else?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u195	I just want to say that it took us a time to understand the consequences, to see if there were any good ideas that we could have shared in the remaining amendments. This is not possible; we therefore ask for the possibility of tabling amending proposals, with respect to the scenario that has been created, at least in detail. It should also be the interest of the Government and the majority, because it is truly the last test of a pervicacious will to impose muscularly and unworthyly what has been decided outside of these classrooms. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u196	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u198	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I envy your confidence in saying in this House that what has been feared may not happen, given the premeditated irregularity with which, in my opinion, it has taken place. As you can see, Mr President, political events change from hour to time; having, among other things, also had a majority change, it might also happen that the famous first-signed amendments, Finocchiaro, which are the ones that should finally give the article of the precepts of Esposito, may not be adopted. I would like to know, then, what will remain of this work: an agenda. The decision to put the amendments in this way to the vote is certainly not dictated by the order of presentation, Mr President, because our Group tabled the amendments (and we also had premissive amendments) at around 6.30 p.m., so we would also like to understand - this is always my curiosity - how we choose the order of vote. I would also like to remind you that we have had a very regrettable situation with regard to the sub-amendments, many of which, despite everything that has happened, namely to return here and try to present the sub-amendments, have now been declared foreclosed. I'm a polite person and I don't use inappropriate words. Mr President, it is clear to everyone that what happened was ordained at the table and, I must think, premeditated. We've been given a live call. You have opposed to suppressing this barbaric use of live calls, but you have prepared a kind of live call for the lark and we, as people who still thought there was a respect for the rules, rushed here to do our job and, therefore, turn our amendments into sub-amendments. Instead, everything had been planned. By the way, I saw today a great way to go by counselor Calderisi, who I think has a lot to do with these scriptures in the Senate as happened that night, as Senator Quagliariello knows perfectly well. We also found hands and hands. Frankly, we could find ourselves - and the President has not answered this - faced with a paradoxical situation because perhaps someone recovers a little 'dignity in this House and you can even get some unexpected rejection or someone, to whom the hypothesis of being President of the Republic has been ventilated, does not see fulfilled their ambitions. Consequently, the famous amendments, which give substance to the wording of the electoral law, may not be adopted. Really the whole thing was packed to get us to a paradoxical situation. From this point of view it offends me very much that this trick has been used. As you saw, you also had numbers. You knew perfectly well that you had also created an enlarged majority. You just don't want to feel the trouble of hearing other reasons, other ideas and thesis about electoral law. Everything is treated with annoyance and the time has to be shortened. Mr President, you were present in the Budget Committee when many of the opposition members went there. The Commission decided, however, to give the opportunity to continue the examination of the electoral law even during the budgetary session. There was a very thorough and long discussion. There was the word of honour - but I understand that here of honour and good repute you have a strange idea - and the President's statement several times - we also find the minutes - that all the amendments which were of importance to expenditure would have been examined by the 5th Commission and not only by President Azzollini, who comes here and gives us the written opinion, as he certainly can do. All the amendments involving expenditure should have been submitted to the Commission for consideration. My amendment clearly involves expenditure and I have the opinion of Senator Azzollini, but the members of the 5th Commission know nothing about it. Since you had Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday, you could hand over these amendments which, like this one, expressly involved expenditure, as it was established at that meeting of the Budget Committee, in the presence of many opposition leaders, as Senator Calderoli will remember perfectly. Do not quote Rule 100 (7) of the Rules of Procedure: I am talking about the fact that there was a commitment to examine, in particular I do not see President Azzollini here. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Azzollini is present. Maybe it was thoughtful and, so, you couldn't see his face well. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Yes, Mr President, but the procedure is not the same for other amendments. For all the measures the amendments go to the budget Commission; it does not improvise when it suits you. We didn't even have to start the exam without the opinion. The amendments which expressly provided for the increase or reduction of expenditure or in any case a change had to be submitted to the Budget Commission and not only to the urgent opinion given by the President in this House and issued in this way. There are many other amendments, and therefore, Mr President, I formally request that all the remaining amendments (because there are other residues that have not been missed by the Esposito amendment) be submitted to the Budget Commission and that this be immediately convened.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u199	I would point out that, beyond the honour of the Commission, which will be adequately defended by the President, who will intervene afterwards, a non-obstacle opinion has been given, without the Budget Commission then asking for verification by the Commission. Therefore, this is an internal procedure within the Budget Commission, which is provided for in the Rules of Procedure: the opinion does not hinder the discussion of the amendment. Therefore, I do not understand the point.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u200	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u201	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u202	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking on behalf of the Five Star Movement on the order of business because, as a Movement, we need clarification. We have seen a known felon arriving in the Senate this afternoon, who is currently serving such a sentence that the Supreme Court has not even authorized him to use his passport and has banned him from public offices and expelled him from this House. We would like to understand what is happening in this Parliament. What did Mr Berlusconi come here to do this afternoon? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What did you come here to do? To pick up the fruit of the morning's work? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] As an opposition we would like to understand how it is possible that, in a democratic, free and Western country, an entire nation can be infamous, in agreement with subjects who are serving a sentence at this time, because that is Mr Berlusconi right now. What does it do here, in Parliament, at such an important moment in our history? We would like to know; we would like to know from the gentlemen who are here in this Chamber; we would also like to know from Nick's friends the American (who are here), who have been brought into play today by the judiciary on yet another scandal. Courteously, we would like to know who agrees with whom behind the backs of the citizens in this country and we would like to know from the Government which majority supports the Government at this time and whether this is supported by a known prejudiced person. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u203	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u204	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u205	Mr Azzollini (AP (NCD-UDC)). I am referring to the question raised by Senator De Petris, who, as far as I am concerned, is quite straightforward, as is also clear from the opinion I have made. Already on the text the Budget Commission gave its opinion. So we felt that, if there were onerous opinions, these were subject to the examination of the same. In the Commission the examination was not completed and therefore the opinions were not given to the Commission budget for the simple examination. As far as the debate in this House is concerned, the Budget Committee has received a number of amendments from the Assembly Service, on which, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we have given our opinion on their honesty. Why did I make it under Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure? I also know, like Senator De Petris, Rule 100; it is an article of the Rules of Procedure. But in this case it has been used very properly, because the amendment did not present any problem of coverage, having absolutely punctual coverage, appropriate and verifiable. So it has been made an opinion that - as Senator De Petris has read - it is certainly not an obstacle, which means that it has allowed the examination and evaluation of the same by the Assembly. Every time - this is the condition of an Assembly, dear Senator De Petris - there is no immediate and verifiable situation of opposition or manifest and linear observance of Rule 81, Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure cannot be used. In this case, having already said that there is a linear, consistent and verifiable coverage, it has been possible to render the opinion in accordance with Article 100. In the other case, the one in which there are many amendments, on many occasions I have thought to bring them back, because all the amendments deserve a vote. In this case, this amendment has been examined and given to the House on a regular basis. If there had been a dispute on the substance by some senators, it would, of course, have resolved the sitting of the Commission. In this case there was no such thing. I repeat that it is quite clear that this is an amendment that is regularly and properly covered and visibly verifiable, so I believe that the procedure has been fully observed. I would not introduce other categories into this, but I assure you that we respect the Rules of Procedure in full and with honour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Thank you, so the honour of the Budget Commission has also been protected.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u206	I address a greeting to a representative of the farmers of South Tyrol/Südtirol, who do a great job. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u207	I would like to point out that former Members can access the seats of the House and the Senate, unless specific sanctions prohibit it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u208	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u209	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u210	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I would like to remind my fellow Members that this Palace was not only attended by the person and the Italian citizen, although condemned definitively and banned by the public offices, this afternoon. For the sake of equal treatment, I must remind my colleagues, in particular my colleague Mr Giarrusso, that I have seen other Italian citizens finally condemned in this building with the ban from public offices. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Comments from the M5S Group.]] Therefore, since it says that all citizens are equal before the law, you have not yet written that law, but it is written in our texts. [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] GIARRUSSO (M5S). Shame on you, you clown! BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). And I believe that even the condant citizens ultimately have the right to access this Palace, with the permissions provided for in our regulations. [[Comments from Senators Crimes and Santangelo.]] And, for the sake of homeland, I don't make the name, but I point out your leadership. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and AP groups (NCD-UDC). Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u211	He had already given the necessary details on the absolute compliance with the rules governing access to the buildings.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u212	[[Senator Crimi's nodding his desire to intervene.]] You still want to intervene, Senator Crimes? I think we've had a wide-ranging discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u213	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u214	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u215	Then let us return to the substance of our debate. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I wanted to speak on the substance of the electoral reform, not on this matter, I do not know if anyone wants to speak on it again. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I think that if there are no other speeches, we will begin to discuss the matter. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I saw Senator Crimi asking to intervene. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Yes, but I gave you the floor, Senator Calderoli, if anything, Senator Crimi will do another surgery. You intervene in the matter. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Thank you, Madam President. I speak to declare my vote on Amendment 01.17, tabled by Senator De Petris, on which I would never have spoken, if a series of clarifications had not been given. My vote will be against because to think that EUR 5 million is sufficient to compensate for double-shifting is a mockery. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] Just as it is a mockery that someone, in order to be able to proceed in the examination in the Commission (of course for fake, because then they did not make us do it) has argued that the new electoral law would not have caused additional costs: if it is true that it concerns a necessary and compulsory expenditure, so there is a expenditure chapter of 330 million that varies depending on whether or not there are local elections, it is undeniable that if we go to a electoral law that provides for the second round, that figure risks doubling or almost; and if someone wants to show me that the elections that take place in one day cost as much as those that take place with double turn, I am sorry but we really regret the madness. I will therefore, with regret and sorrow, vote against the inconsistent funding proposed in Amendment 01.17 tabled by Senator De Petris.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u216	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u217	You have the right to do so. Will you comment on the amendment? CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, Senator Endrizzi will speak on the amendment, but I would like to say that Mr Berlusconi, when he entered here, was even denied his passport because he is serving a sentence.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u218	[[Protests from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Barani.]] We're not just talking about a convicted man, because there's a flood of convicted people in here and they keep coming in while they're serving a sentence. Remember that you kept people in this Chamber who were supposed to go to jail waiting for your vote, instead of sending them where they were supposed to go when they were finally convicted. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] You don't need to remember the names of everyone who came by and who you kept here for months before you authorized their arrest. [[Vivacious protests from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u219	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u220	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u221	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, we are talking about costs. I still remember with corrosive annoyance when we went to the Budget Committee to see how the work of the 1st Commission could be allowed during the budgetary session, given that a double-shift law could not help to increase costs and any intervention could, in any amendment, foresee the need for an assessment. The budget committee said that it would take all this on board, but a coincidence seemed really humiliating to me, namely that shortly before the Council had given an opinion against the use of interceptions on the part of the President of the Budget Commission. Well, I wouldn't want to see this. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli.]] I don't want to know, I wish I could tell citizens that it's just a bad dream, but it happens before my eyes and I feel the duty to tell and tell even those who are at home. This amendment shows us how we can deny the evidence. I thank Mrs De Petris because we are now reduced to a mission for the truth. We cannot affect the facts, but the representation of the facts can reveal the clamorous deception. We have heard an opinion here saying: yes, it is 5 million and it is covered. It is not 5 million; we know how much an electoral turn costs, and we know that the President-in-Office of the Council, the first advocate of this filth, wants to make the election day just to save in May. Then at one o'clock: either we defend the truth always, or we defend it only in our home and outside we allow ourselves the right to speak with crossed fingers. I have seen too many climbs on the mirrors and the last of my colleague Buemi was really pathetic. Patience, if it is a miserable polemic, while you cannot be patient when there are hundreds of millions of euros of public money at stake; you cannot be patient when all this is done at the expense of democracy. That is why we shall abstain in the vote on this amendment because we recognise its value but we cannot support the concept. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u222	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u223	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u224	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, this amendment has been tabled precisely to refute the view that you yourself had taken forward here, namely that in itself the costs of the elections are always covered and that the fact that we were moving towards a text which provided for the ballot - because this also provides for the "Esposito Directive" - would not have any impact on the state budget. All this in order to avoid a pause during the law of stability because, as is known, no measure can be examined during the budgetary session. You climbed on mirrors to show that the electoral law also had no impact from the point of view of public finance, despite the issue of balloting, which in fact almost doubles the cost that is currently allocated in the budget for the elections. On the other hand, we have seen how much the polling round affects and the accounts can be done by observing the long experience of the municipal elections and the direct election of the mayor. This amendment - I declare it - has been done in an absolutely instrumental way, with a ridiculous figure, to show that there is still a need, in my opinion, for a reasonable allocation. So all these amendments, Mr Azzollini, including the Esposito Directorates, were to receive the opinion of the Budget Commission. Of course, we will not only vote in favour, but I will also ask you another question, Senator Azzollini. Is the Commission, which did not know anything about its opinion, of course, adopted all the other amendments? Because I checked: there are others that have visibly an impact on the budget and that therefore must be verified for the correctness or not of the forecast of coverage. I ask you a formal question, because there is the trick here too: it is not possible that, as the amendments happen, there is Azzollini ready to give the opinion not obstructive, which he does not often, perhaps even on amendments that are clearly and openly without any impact (often he intervenes in this House to add dictionaries: we have seen many of these stories). Madam President, I would like to ask you formally - and I ask the offices, who have made this long list, and will know perfectly well - to draw up a list of all the amendments which are clearly and clearly expenditure-related. I am thinking, for example, of a number of amendments concerning the committee for the implementation of colleges. I formally request that there be no stilicide, but that President Azzollini summon the Commission to examine the remaining amendments which clearly have a financial impact. [[Senator Falanga points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u225	I would like to reassure Senator De Petris that all the amendments which have expenditure implications have been forwarded to the Budget Commission and that the President has expressed himself using a power conferred on him by the Rules of Procedure. Senator Falanga, do you want to intervene? (Senator Falanga converses with other Senators of his Group). He doesn't intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u226	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u227	Mr President, you have already spoken a great deal.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u228	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u229	Mr Azzollini (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I need a moment to add a few questions to reassure you on the intensive work you have done on this issue. I remind Senator De Petris that the question of the honesty of the possible ballot and the changes introduced by the text was dealt with in a very thorough way when examining the text of the norm. Already in that place was planned the ballot and the second rounds. If we reread the reports of the debate on the text of the law, it would be easy to find out what the Commission's orientation was on the basis of an in-depth debate and an electoral precedent submitted to the Commission. Senator De Petris will see that, with regard to methodology, the strictest approach was chosen, namely to pass the examination of the text to the Budget Commission. With regard to the examination of the electoral law, all opinions were expressed in that forum about the honesty or not of the electoral law, as a mere procedural law, with respect to the budget appropriations which are, on the other hand, implemented in the law of convening the elections. The debate was broad. There were different opinions, of course, but the general question was resolved there. When considering the amendments, the Assembly decided to forward to the Commission the amendments which, compared to what was discussed and approved in the Commission, presented further profiles. The issues to which he referred, therefore, were all dealt with in the Commission with a broad and in-depth debate and with the consultation of precedents, which led then - I repeat - to follow the strictest methodological approach, namely that of examination by the Budget Commission. The outcome was what remains in the Commission's proceedings. With regard to Senator Calderoli's observation, to which I reply, it is not that Senator De Petris' amendment sets out how much the ballots cost, but believes that it adds 5 million to the budget normally existing and covers it with 5 million. There is really no need for any in-depth examination. He did not say, Senator Calderoli, that, having to do the ballot, it had to be covered, because in that case we would have discussed. He asked for an increase of 5 million to the budget and he covered it regularly; we did that. On the other considerations, including those of Senator Endrizzi, I prefer not to dwell; we will do so on many other occasions and if we were to do so even outside the Senate I would be much happier, because in my opinion it is not the case to approach events of a totally different nature. When we want to do that, we'll talk about so many crimes, including murder, something that would be interesting to find out when we wanted to discuss it. I am also able to talk about the murder, which is notoriously the most serious of the crimes provided for by the Italian penal code, but we do not want to discuss it and leave it for another debate for which I am ready. SANTANGELO (M5S). In here. Mr Azzollini (AP-NCD-UDC). Excuse me? SANTANGELO (M5S). That's enough.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u230	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u231	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u232	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Madam President, it is certainly true, as President Azzollini says, that we had a long debate on the electoral law in the Budget Committee that afternoon, and it is certainly true that you have every right to give the opinion in accordance with Rule 100 (7) of the Rules of Procedure. We have fully understood that regulations are being used or not used in this House depending on how it suits you, and that is clear to everyone, inside and outside the House. I believe that at a time like this, when we are talking about democracy (democracy that will no longer exist after the adoption of constitutional reforms and this draft electoral law), we will be able to take advantage of and have moments of confrontation, at least in the Commissions. At least don't take this away from us. So it is true that the opinion can be expressed on the basis of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, but it is also true that we would have done much earlier and would have saved the whole House time if the opinion had been delivered by calling the Commission and having a minimum of discussion in which oppositions could also say theirs. We would not have solved anything; the opinion would have been the same, but we would have had a moment of democratic confrontation. If I may open a small parenthesis, since the debate has now gone in all directions, I would like to say that it is true that manslaughter is very serious, but it does not involve any of the people in here. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, let's get back to the topic of the discussion. BULGARRELLI (M5S). Since all the times this debate is brought up, I would avoid it because no one here is President of the 5 Star Movement or has a murder on his shoulders that, by the way, is manslaughter. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u233	Let us return to the substance of the debate. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 01.17, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The examination of the so-called premissive amendments has thus been exhausted. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have already been tabled and on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u234	I am in favour of amendments 1,7000/1, 1,7000, 1,7001/257, by Senator Collina, 1,7001/501, by Senator Zeller, 1,7001, Senator Finocchiaro and others, 1.12290 by Senator Zeller and others. I am opposed to the remaining amendments and sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u235	Colleagues, the Presidency will provide opinions and pages as individual amendments are discussed. We have an indication of the views in favour, all the others are against it, so we are able to move on to the vote on Amendment 1.1, which is identical to Amendment 1.2. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Bisinella, identical to amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Mauro Giovanni and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u236	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u237	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u238	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to clarify Amendment 1,104. I'd like to know if he's been declared foreclosed or anything.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u239	It has been declared inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.5 (correct text), on page 577 of Tomo X, which, if rejected, precludes the subsequent amendment 1.12001. [[Senator Calderoli calls on the Presidency to wait.]] Senator Calderoli, I believe I have given all the information to trace the amendment, especially to you who are its presenter.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u240	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u241	Calm down, Senator Calderoli.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u242	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u243	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, in a spirit of cooperation I would like to point out that on this amendment, which concerns citizens temporarily residing abroad, in the Commission, President Finocchiaro, both on this point and with reference to students who go abroad with Erasmus during the election period, a provision was requested to be able to present solutions to the House by the majority because the problem was real and heard. I wanted to know whether the majority of citizens who were temporarily resident abroad and Erasmus students had been in depth in this respect.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u244	Senator Calderoli, with respect to this request both the Government and Senator Finocchiaro, even if she does not perform the role of rapporteur, have given no indication in this sense and then proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u245	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u246	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u247	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you, at least, to look at us and see if there is any request for an explanation of vote. If you bring patience and look around, it also gives us the opportunity to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u248	I would ask you to point out the requests to speak to the Presidency at the time when the amendment is being discussed, so that we can have a list of those who are asking to speak and thus make it easier for the Secretary Senators to control it as well. I also make it a matter of respect for senators, because at the last moment it becomes difficult. [[Bottician Senators and Crimes indicate they want to intervene.]] Do you intend to intervene Senator Crime or Senator Bottici?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u249	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u250	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u251	BOTTICS (M5S). Madam President, can you tell me what the amendments foreclosed after amendment 1.5 (correct text) are? Furthermore, if the text of the amendments has been printed by order of vote, I would like to know why we move from one to the other: can you explain to me why we have printed 15 hawks that will no longer be needed? [[Applause from Senator Paglini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u252	Excuse me, Senator, maybe you missed a few passages. The figures from I to X contain foreclosed amendments; they have been printed, but the House will hardly use them. We have therefore arrived, in the order of the vote, at Tomo X, on page 577.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u253	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u254	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u255	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I rise to express our position on Amendment 1.5 (correct text), on which we will of course vote in favour. It deals with a particularly heartfelt subject that is very close to our heart. During these years, among other things, even during the last elections, the problem has been how to make students temporarily resident abroad exercise the right to vote, because they are engaged in study projects such as Erasmus. We discussed this several times and there was also a commitment from the Government to find a solution on the matter. We believe that this amendment also proposes a solution in order to close all those years of controversy that we have often faced because of the objective difficulty that students, engaged in study projects abroad, encounter in order to exercise their right to vote. On the other hand, it is completely absurd to ask for the return to Italy in order to exercise the right to vote, since in other countries there are experiments in progress for the expression of the vote and, above all, because there is already the possibility for Italians resident abroad to express their vote. We therefore hope that a debate on this amendment will be held on the substance and that we will not pre-empt ourselves just because it is an amendment tabled by the opposition.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u256	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u257	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u258	[[Senator Crimi's nodding his desire to intervene.]] I thought Senator Bottici's surgery absorbed your surgery. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, my colleague, Mr Cociancich, tells me that he has tabled an amendment which incorporates a requirement which everyone in the Commission represents, even if he does not have the immediate opportunity to identify it. I would therefore ask you to put aside the amendment, while we are recovering it, so that it does not have any preclusive effects on that proposal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Are we talking about an amendment to Article 1? COCIANCICH (PD). It is the one related to the Erasmus student vote. CRIMI (M5S). Give us ten minutes to track him down, President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u259	The Presidency can track it down and then discuss it together: the amendment is in Volume XIV, on page 107. Senator Calderoli, we reject amendment 1.5 (correct text) in order to make the checks, identify the similar amendment submitted by Senator Ciociancich and, above all, evaluate the opinion of the Government. If, in fact, the opinion is contrary to both amendments, or the opinion is revised or this assessment remains by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u260	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u261	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u262	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, we simply want to understand what is going on.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u263	Senator Crimi, I would like to point out to you that the presenter, Senator Calderoli, has asked you to put aside amendment 1.5 (correct text) in order to evaluate it together with an amendment tabled by Senator Cociancich, with similar content. CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, we are following the work. What I am asking you to do is give us a few minutes to verify this amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Sure, Senator Crimes. We've identified him, and as soon as we extrapolate him, we'll signal him and we can evaluate him. CRIMI (M5S). In the meantime, Madam President, we could proceed and vote on the next amendment. That's what I'm asking you. Obviously, I would like to make a joint explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is In order to speed up the continuation of our work, I would point out to the House that the amendment in question, tabled by Senator Cociancich and others, is the 1.7001/264, which is on page 107 of Tomo XIV and on which, moreover, the Government has expressed an opinion against it. I naturally allow the senators time to verify it and possibly intervene on it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u264	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u265	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u266	MICHELONI (PD). Madam President, another amendment was tabled on this subject, first signed by Senator Tonini and also signed by members of the Committee on Italian Affairs abroad, covering all the problems related to the law on voting abroad. I would ask that this amendment be put aside and that it be discussed in conjunction with amendment 1.7001/264. In fact, I would not like these votes to preclude the work we have agreed with the Foreign Ministry and the Committee on Italian Affairs abroad.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u267	Senator Micheloni, I would point out to you, however, that no preclusive effects have been evaluated. The only foreclosure concerns amendment 1.12001. The Presidency is allowing the senators to evaluate amendment 1.7001/264, and also to examine the question you have put in order to give you an answer. [[Senator Calderoli points out that he wants to intervene]] I inform you that there are no preclusive effects. Therefore, it is possible to intervene on Amendment 1.5 (correct text).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u268	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u269	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u270	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I have already asked for the floor. If I agree with the Cociancich amendment, which I have not had the opportunity to read, I am prepared to withdraw Amendment 1.5 (correct text).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u271	Senator Calderoli, the amendments follow in order of vote. I repeat that there are no preclusive effects. So, consider your behavior. In the meantime, let us look at this amendment. Then, proceeding in the voting order, without any preclusive effects, we will evaluate the next one.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u272	Madam President, since I am an admirer of Senator Cociancich's work, I withdraw Amendment 1.5 (correct text). However, I would urge the Government to reflect on the views expressed on a problem that needs to be resolved here and not in another. [[Applause from Senator Bignami and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u273	The government has listened to your invitation. We hope that, from now on, until the time of the examination of amendment 1,7001/264, you will have time to carry out this verification. Amendment 1.5 (correct text) is therefore withdrawn. We move on to amendment 1.12001, first signed by Senator Calderoli, on page 582 of Tomo X. Senator Calderoli, I'm addressing you. This amendment is linked to amendment 1.5 (correct text): having been withdrawn by you, amendment 1.12001 is not precluded, unless you intend to withdraw this too and converge throughout the matter on Senator Cociancich's amendment. Madam President, I also maintain a consistent position and withdraw amendment 1.12001. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendment 1.12001 is therefore withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u274	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u275	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u276	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I apologize if I speak not in an explanation of vote but on the order of business. It will be a personal problem for me, but I would like to address all my colleagues in order to define the situation. Believe me, President Boldrini... I apologize, President Lanzillotta: it is impossible to follow the work, we are to the point that we are even confusing the two rooms! Please: it takes ten minutes to pause, in which you meet in a room apart with all the senators concerned (in this case Senator Calderoli) and establishes a precise order. Personally, I must also have the opportunity, if a senator withdraws an amendment, to make it mine. And then, I already have no voice and I also speak in consideration of what will be the works. Madam President, I would ask you to take the suggestion that I am giving you, because tomorrow we have the start and not the end of work and I assure you that for each amendment I will want to understand what I have to vote on and I want to have time to make the explanation of vote or to make my own a valid amendment from some other senator. I would therefore ask you to take a break, at least ten minutes, because nothing is being understood and perhaps, Madam President, you too have some confusion right now!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u277	Senator Santangelo, you will not miss that if we are discussing 47,000 amendments in some respects, this raises problems for all of us. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] The great work done by the offices allows us to move forward. Senator Calderoli has withdrawn his amendments, we are perfectly able to proceed and we are on page 597 of Tomo X.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u278	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u279	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u280	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, I believe that Amendment 1.8 should not be underestimated. This is an issue that has been raised on many occasions, it has been re-examined and it has been given a guarantee that it will be addressed, namely the question of the voting of students abroad. But it's not just about that, there are several situations that concern people who are temporarily abroad and are not registered with the Italian Registry resident abroad (AIRE) for which they enjoy a number of mechanisms already planned or vote for the foreign constituency. We are talking here about people who are out of work, I am thinking for example of the military or those who are boarded on merchant ships, who on Italian territory have the possibility to vote at another seat of the State, but if they are outside Italy they have difficulties. It has been ensured that this issue would be addressed. In particular, the most pressing part is the part that concerns students of Erasmus projects, since they are supported and supported by the Government and have always been a flagship of the culture of this country. For this reason, we in the 5 Star Movement will vote in favour of this amendment, already anticipating that I reserve the right to speak on that of Senator Cociancich, who from a first look - then we will deepen it better - seems quite well done and, although we have never had a great assonance in our positions, I must acknowledge in this case that the amendment has a good system and could be a solution; it is also quite slim compared to that already presented by Senator Calderoli, on which, in any case, we will vote favorably.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u281	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u282	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u283	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, Amendment 1.8, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Bisinella, is very complex because it precisely defines the procedure for access to the vote, just as there are many other amendments that we find on this subject and in the body of the amending proposals submitted to the draft electoral law. I say this, Mr President, because we would always like to be able to vote responsibly, on the basis of an examination of the text on time, and we would also like to know what is next. A law is not an article, ladies and gentlemen, despite the attempt at synthesis that was made this morning. An electoral bill like this is a complex one, in which one article cannot contradict another. At the end of this discussion you will see that the electoral law that will come out will need immediate maintenance; it will return to the House to be revisited and I guarantee you that at the first examination of the offices that will have to apply it will require changes. CRIMI (M5S). No, no. URAS (Misto-SEL). And the uncertainty with which we are going to vote will also compromise the outcome of the vote. 20,48 p.m. (URAS followed). This is a season, President, that will remember for approximations and approximations, and it is not a subject that only and exclusively concerns this House and Parliament, but also the Government and all the authorities of the State. We are working in complete confusion: we give the country the image of not being able to govern it, of being approximate in dealing with problems. All of this why? Why can we not occasionally take ten minutes and make a list of homogeneous amendments to be dealt with? Why do we have to prove that we are a confusing mass of subjects who do not even have the property of language that they must use when discussing a norm? But why do we have to make bad figures? We can also try to make beautiful figures in front of the country. That is why, Mr President, we shall be voting in favour of this amendment, but we would have liked to have dealt with the rights of students, those who study abroad and who will remain there, Mr President. They will stay abroad because it will be difficult to return to this country and find a job; it will be difficult to organize a life here, and maybe there they will have more possibilities. I am talking about our students, those who were once also the children of the workers, and who now can no longer be so because of the economic crisis we face: at least we retain for them the right to express our consent or dissent for a political part, for a coalition of government, for a President of the Council of Ministers. Let's do this. I urge everyone to read the amendment that we are voting on because, at the end of the round, if we do not find a solution, we have found the solution in their exclusion from the right to vote. If we do not find a solution, we have excluded them from a right which the Constitution recognises to them. Mr President, in saying that we are going to vote in favour of this amendment, we are calling for further work to reflect on the way in which we are legislated. The legislative function, although it is attempted to massacre it from all sides, I assure you that Parliament exercises the best of the ministerial bureaucracies to which you are delegating it. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u284	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u285	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u286	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I am speaking with the aim of helping the whole of Parliament to solve the problem, recognizing its difficulty. Everyone recognizes the need to respond and to respond to the problem of students who are temporarily abroad. I understand the difficulty that the introduction of the second round can determine for the printing of the cards and I also understand the billing of responsibility between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior, but we are talking about 400,000 boys. It is not an inconsistent number and - of course, if the amendment is placed at the 14th tome, we have not immediately faced the problem and, therefore, I believe that we can work between this evening and tomorrow morning - I turn Amendment 1.8 into the agenda, so that it is prodromic to find a solution and I ask the Government for its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u287	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u288	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u289	Montevecchi (M5S). I am making this speech with a bit of embarrassment to remind you that on Monday afternoon, two days ago, a specific request had been made in this House following an event, to use an understatement, "incresive" which had seen the senator who at the moment began to preside over the House as the protagonist of one of the events that we saw him as the protagonist in this parliamentary term: he sent one of his shameful tweets; let us not forget that. In this House, not only the Five Star Movement, but also other political forces had made a specific request: they had asked the Presidency to find ways - implicitly inviting the Presidency to intervene - to ensure that Senator Gasparri did not preside over this Assembly, thereby restoring to it the dignity that is being given to her in a civil and democratic country that wakes up in the face of certain acts. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups]] Unfortunately, on this occasion we note that the Presidency is deaf to the words of Members and also insensitive to certain shameful facts. Let us remember, however, that when the facts do not involve mere citizens, but Ministers, the Presidency regains all its sensitivity and all its auditive capacity. Further shame, because it means that the Presidency considers that there are A-class citizens, who sit in the chair of a Ministry, and B-class citizens, who are outside, to whom there should be the same respect. I hope that we are faced with an emerging situation and that the Presidency, after this evening, will take the necessary measures called for loudly in this House. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u290	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u291	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u292	URAS (Misto-SEL). I will intervene to share the comments that have just been made. It is with some embarrassment that I speak, but I think the Presidency should have thought of it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A few days of suspension from the leadership of this House, in a situation like this, perhaps you should have taken it appropriately. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-MovX Groups]] In fact, it is not only a matter of tense political climate; it is not just a matter of overturned majorities and betrayed votes: it is also a matter of civilization in the conduct of Parliament that is being called into question at the very moment when citizens who have also suffered the confrontation of an undeserved imprisonment while exercising the right to volunteer to those who suffer are being stoned with tweets that are truly indecorous. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups]] I wonder whether those who have a duty to exercise public responsibility can afford to play with mobile phones from morning to evening, or whether they have a duty to do their institutional commitment with respect for everyone and above all for the weakest parties, for women and those who have spent and spent their time abroad to give an image of this positive country and of attention and not a negative image. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u293	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u294	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u295	MICHELONI (PD). Mr President, I am speaking to clarify the debate I have heard on the vote of temporary residents abroad. I really demand that these amendments be discussed together, because the content of amendment 1.0.12000 concerns both Erasmus students and those outside Italy for reasons of work or health, temporarily and so on. This is a proposal that we have drawn up in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and it is a workable proposal. These people must vote on the foreign college: it is absolutely unthinkable and unmanageable the return vote on the Italian college. They have the right to vote. They live abroad and Senator Uras said that they will probably continue to live there. It is part of their integration to vote on the foreign college, since for the House of Deputies you have left the foreign college. I would ask that Amendment 1.0.12000 be discussed together with the other proposals, because it is a viable proposal and solves the problems of all those who are abroad (even those who are out for only three months for reasons of work, health or other, except for holidays). We have thought to the full about this issue. There is a foreign college and people abroad vote on that college. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency has already indicated that there are no preclusive effects, so I can reassure you.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u296	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u297	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u298	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Given that Senator Calderoli has turned amendment 1.8 into an agenda and that the Government must declare opposition or consent to this agenda, I rise to report to the Government the Decree-Law of 3 January 2006, No 1, on urgent provisions for the local election of certain voters, for the computerized recording of the ballot and for admission to the seats of OSCE observers during the forthcoming political elections. [[Applause from Senator Zin]] With this precedent, in 2006 the Government issued a measure regulating the procedures for admission to the vote of certain, specific persons and certain subjects. In view of this, I would urge the Government to give a favourable opinion on Senator Calderoli's G1.8 agenda. Also in order not to disturb further later, I would like to take the opportunity to point out that the Presidency considered that amendment 1,7001/507, at the first signature of the undersigned, had been precluded by the adoption of Senator Stefano Esposito's amendment 01.103. In this regard, I call on the Presidency to reconsider this decision, since the provision of the Esposito amendment in point (i) (the Chamber of Deputies is elected in accordance with the provisions of this Act from 1 July 2016 onwards) is totally different from the amendment that has been declared foreclosed, because the latter sets the date of entry into force of the entire law to date from 1 July 2016. There is therefore a difference; I also tell the technicians who work with politicians in the management of the Presidency. There is a difference between an amendment that totally differs the date of entry into force of the entire law and a provision that differs only that article (which would be 3), in the matter of election of the Chamber of Deputies. It seems to me that this difference is substantial. In fact, Mr President, I would like to mention the previous decree-laws that have intervened over time (Law No 300 of 21 May 1994, Decree-Law No 1 of 2006, Decree-Law No 400 of 1988 and Decree-Law No 42 of 1994), by which the Government has intervened now to change the date of the elections (there is one that also differs the date of the vote), now the arrangements for the exercise of the vote by certain categories. Therefore, in essence, when it is said in a law, with a clear transitional rule, that it enters into force on 1 July 2016, there can be no urgent regulatory action amending that provision. Instead with the letter i) of the amendment Stefano Esposito, which differs only the date of the vote, but not already the entry into force of all the law, the Government can at any time, with a "small" decree-law, frustrate that date. Thanks to this, many have been in favour of the entire electoral law, because this postponement of the entry into force has reassured the minds of many, who have since expressed their favourable opinion and their consent to the law itself. I would therefore like the Government to be clear on this point, so that we can easily decide whether to approve this measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , whether or not the date of entry into force may be amended. So the Presidency will have to take me into account if it considers that my amendment has indeed been precluded by the adoption of Senator Esposito's amendment. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u299	As Amendment 1.8 has been turned into an agenda by Senator Calderoli, I would ask the representative of the Government to comment on this agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u300	Mr President, the subject raised by Senator Calderoli is certainly widely shared, particularly as regards the need to find a solution to allow even those who are temporarily out of office to exercise the right to vote. Nevertheless, by inserting with this measure the forecast of the round of ballots, there are also some technical difficulties to be solved, which obviously require an in-depth examination by the competent Ministry. I therefore believe that we can accept the agenda as a commitment for the Government to solve this problem technically, also because of the time that will pass before the electoral law enters into force, and to regulate the voting procedures in a timely manner. CRIMI (M5S). At the same time as the other guy? We've been waiting for him for a year!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u301	I welcome the Government's wording and call for the vote on the agenda in the text proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u302	If we put it to the vote, it will obviously be with a favourable opinion of the Government, given the intervention made by the Minister. Is the text of the article?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u303	No, the text basically requires a commitment to the Government to identify ways of exercising the right to vote for those temporarily out of office. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). That is very good in the text put forward by the Minister. Mr Boschi, Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament. Of course, in Senator Calderoli's amendment we were referring to those who are in Italian, so now we are dealing with this issue; then we are going to evaluate the other profiles that hold out of office abroad.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u304	Senator Uras signs the agenda; the other senators who want to sign it, which I imagine are numerous, will send it to the offices.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u305	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u306	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u307	Orellana (Mist). Mr President, I will vote against this agenda, because we are considering students outside the Chamber differently from all the workers who are out of the Chamber. Compared to the electoral appointment, so far we had behaved differently: both the worker and the student, in short, anyone who was distant from their place of residence returned to vote, with facilities for the purchase of air or rail tickets that allowed the approach at the time of voting. I would have voted against the amendment, but I will also vote against it on the agenda, which, by including the vote by correspondence also in the Italian context (at least as I understand it from the text), seems to me to create a situation in which the secrecy of the vote is affected: when you vote at home it is not like when you vote at home in an electoral booth, where secrecy is guaranteed, or maybe you are in the company of other people who can control what you are voting on. Unfortunately, when you are abroad you can't do it otherwise and in my opinion you could also think of something different, but certainly in Italian I don't think you can go looking for a specific solution for students outside Italy. On the other hand, if we are talking about students abroad, for example with the Erasmus programme, let us go back to the speech made by Senator Micheloni, who also spoke about a foreign constituency. I would therefore like to understand what commitment the government is making and we are all taking on this issue. If we are talking about out-of-office students, I honestly do not understand the difference between them and any other person who is outside, for example for work or for needs such as to accompany a relative who may be hospitalized away from home and who will lose the right to vote. I shall therefore vote against this agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u308	I'll put the agenda to the vote... SANTANGELO (M5S). Electronic vote! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The electronic vote must be requested. GAETTI (M5S). I had already asked for the electronic vote on the entire article. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Good. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.8 tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). So let us move on to Amendment No 1,2003, which you will find in Volume XI.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u309	Mr President, the content of amendment 1.12003 is comparable to the previous amendment, which is why I withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u310	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.11 (correct text), which is similar to the previous one.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u311	Mr President, I confirm that you have not changed your mind in the meantime, so I am withdrawing this too.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u312	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u313	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u314	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, I wanted to know the outcome of amendment 1.9 (correct text).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u315	It was ruled out in connection with the adoption of the well-known amendment 01.103, which was voted on a few hours ago. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.23. [[Senator Crimi's nodding his desire to intervene.]] Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I'll withdraw it, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Does he also withdraw his subsequent amendments of a similar nature? Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendments 1.23 to 1.44, therefore, are withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u316	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u317	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u318	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I have been telling you for a long time that you want to speak. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I was listening to the presenter of the amendment that we had arrived at. CRIMI (M5S). We renew the invitation to meet with Senator Calderoli in another room or the Presidency to decide which amendments... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The withdrawal of an amendment can also be decided by the presenter at the moment. CRIMI (M5S). This dialogue exclusively between two people has taken place before and continues now. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Calderoli has withdrawn amendments as it is in his faculties and there is nothing strange about them. CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, with regard to paragraph 1 of amendment 1.9 (correct text), I would ask the offices to explain to me why it has been declared foreclosed, because I do not understand it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It therefore provides for a single preference which has been precluded following the adoption of an amendment that was previously voted on. CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, what amendment are we reading? I have before me the text of amendment 1.9 (correct text) and read this part: "Those who have twice been elected to the office of a Member of Parliament shall not be eligible." Tell me why this part of the amendment is not included. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is an amendment that has nothing to do with Senator Stefano Esposito's amendment, so I ask the offices to check it out. We have asked whether there has been a punctual review of the foreclosures, but this case shows that it has not been done; therefore, after the Government, the Presidency has also done a gross job, as we imagined. In this way, 24,000 amendments have been assessed. Paragraph 1 of amendment 1.9 (correct text) has no reason to be precluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u319	As was announced this morning by the Presidency of the House, Amendment 1.9 (correct text) is precluded, but it is also a matter of extraneousness of matter. For these two reasons, this amendment was not put to the vote. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.46. [[Senator Cioffi suggests he wants to intervene]] Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I'm taking him back. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendment 1,46 is therefore withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.51. [[Senator Cioffi suggests he wants to intervene]] Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I withdraw amendment 1.51. [[Senator Cioffi suggests he wants to intervene]] I take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u320	I'm asking you to talk! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u321	[[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] CIOFFI (M5S). You have to shout to make yourself heard. Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. My colleague, Crimi, spoke of amendment 1.9 (correct text), which also states that those who have been convicted cannot be candidates. Since we play the game that we pretend we don't want the condemned, but then these are always in here; nothing was this the true Nazarene pact, so you agreed on this very thing, declaring unacceptable all the amendments that provide that the condemned do not belong here? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Considering that the Democratic Party today, just a few hours ago, had a candidate for the Presidency of the Campania Region sentenced to a year and banned from public offices for two years, it seems to me that you are in good company. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is better for you to have a serious examination of your conscience. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u322	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,12024, on page 150 of Table XI. Mr Pegorer (PD). He's been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u323	Mr President, I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u324	I take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u325	Mr Pegorer (PD). But it had already been withdrawn. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. From the file I have here was not withdrawn, so in the end I have to take note that the amendment was made precisely by Senator Arrigoni. I therefore call on Senator Tocci and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1,12024, which was subsequently withdrawn and taken over by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,428, on page 153 of Tomo XI.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u326	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u327	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u328	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr. President, I'm amazed. I do not ask you to put the amendment to the vote, because I am thinking in accordance with what your reasoning should be. If you forbade me the other 34,000, how the hell can you keep this alive? You have the explanations for the foreclosures; now I turn to the question: why was this not foreclosed? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Because it has obviously been assessed as compatible with our debate. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). But just read it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u329	It is not that these assessments are made by drawing lots, as you know. You have a long experience in the offices of this House. The amendment is in the vote, if you wish to withdraw it, do so. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I self-empower myself and, as a foreclosure, I withdraw it. But this amendment should not have been able to be voted on. AIROLA (M5S). But this is the Senate! The Senate is not the square! BOTTICS (M5S). This should be foreclosed!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u330	I'll do it!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u331	Very well, it's possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u332	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u333	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u334	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I read the amendment - three lines - because I know that no one is reading it. I understand that you do not have the file of amendments, so I read it, just to let you know what you are voting on: The Chamber of Deputies shall be elected by universal suffrage, by direct and equal vote, free and secret, expressed in the first ballot and, if necessary, in the second round. This is the amendment that you have not foreclosed and that you are now going to vote on. Vote against now. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u335	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,428, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Bisinella, which was subsequently withdrawn and taken over by Senator Airola. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,540, on page 177 of Tomo XI. MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I withdraw amendment 1,540. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Minzolini, do you withdraw the next ones? MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). Yes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u336	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u337	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u338	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I would like clarification. We rejected the fact that 'the Chamber of Deputies is elected by universal suffrage, by direct and equal vote, free and secret, expressed in the first ballot, and, if necessary, in the second round'; if we rejected this, what is now being foreclosed? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u339	The foreclosures were communicated this morning on the basis of the votes taken, so I confirm what we have said. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Senator Minzolini also withdrew the other amendments at his signature; at this point we move on to page... [[Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u340	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u341	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u342	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I believe that there are times when we must try to recover the notion of meaning, because this way of proceeding really makes the whole House ridiculous. Now, in fact, we have the phone records, so we know who the people who voted against a concept that is the following: The Chamber of Deputies shall be elected by universal suffrage (you have voted against), by direct and equal vote (you have voted against), by free and secret vote (you have voted against), by vote in the first electoral round and, if necessary, by vote in the second round. This is absolutely not in contradiction with the electoral law you are giving birth. I think this is really a bit like Mubarak's grandson's story. We really have reached these levels. It's a shame! [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-MovX groups and Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u343	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u344	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u345	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I have frankly said this before: we will be remembered for living in this Parliament to the nearest extent and for being approximate. Beware that we are discussing the electoral law. We cannot return to this House in a few weeks' time to correct the mess that is taking place in this debate. Each of us must assume the responsibility of doing things right. Here we cannot vote against universal suffrage, free and equal voting. How do you do that? [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-MovX Groups.]] Then what do we approve of in the next amendment, that the vote is done in a coercive way, that is exercised through coercion? Do we have to vote that it is no longer by universal suffrage, that women are excluded, that those who have blond hair are excluded, or those who do not have blond hair, like me? That those who are too old or too young are excluded? [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-ILC Groups and Senator De Petris]] What are we talking about? Let's stop before we make a mess. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] This is not the way to work! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Giarrusso's protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u346	We are on page 236 of Tomo XI. Amendment 1.802, which was withdrawn by Senator Minzolini, is identical to amendment 1.801. Senator Calderoli, do you keep it?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u347	Mr President, I maintain this amendment and ask it to be put to the vote. Mr President, since there is an opinion contrary to the Government and since there is no rapporteur, I would like the House to hear its content, there are two lines: The Chamber of Deputies is elected by universal suffrage, with direct and equal vote, free and secret, attributed to competing lists of candidates. If someone thinks - and I have to agree with Mr Uras - that we can vote differently, then they must reject this amendment; otherwise someone will explain to me how an opinion can be given contrary to a text that makes a statement of the kind that hot water is hot. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u348	Senator Calderoli, in order to clarify what we are talking about, precise proposals are made for changes to the text that is in the Chamber, which, in article 1, paragraph 1, contains "Article 1 of the single text of the laws with rules for the election of the Chamber of Deputies, referred to in the decree of the President of the Republic and continues "the Chamber of Deputies is elected by universal suffrage, with direct and equal vote, free and secret, attribute to lists of candidates competing in plurinomial colleges." Therefore, the fundamental principle is already contained in the text; after that the Government has expressed its opinion. It is not that only that amendment guarantees the right to vote. However, Senator Calderoli, your amendment is accepted and you can vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u349	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u350	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u351	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, we can explain and make an explanation of vote, you cannot. You have to guarantee the business.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u352	I wanted to give an answer on the merits. However, you insisted on the vote. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I simply read the amendment. The assessments of what is or is not there are made by each colleague. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It was a simple explanation to remember what the text was, given the scale of the amendments, otherwise it seems that we are voting against the principle of universal suffrage and that is not the case. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, it is not your place. If you want to explain to us all the 44,000 amendments, I will be delighted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u353	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u354	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u355	CHITI (PD). Mr President, our debate has moments of divergence and let us keep it on the points where there is such divergence, but it is not appropriate to make a part of Members pass on to fools or to people who are in contradiction, I also say this in friendship to my colleague, Mr Uras. The ordinary law does not change the Constitution and how Parliament is elected is written in the Constitution. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Therefore, when amendments are tabled which are only disturbing, it is legitimate to do so, but it cannot be said that these proposals must bind those who consider them to be such and who want to concentrate on the points on which they have actually assumed responsibility to say that they think otherwise and not pretending that they were good. I would like to say to Senator Mussini: can you tell me, instead, how you feel about when it is necessary to write in a law that takes the second round? Is it necessary when you wake up in the morning, when I have a headache or something? We therefore try to maintain our differences and our consensus on a serious plan. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u356	We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 1.808 tabled by Senator Mauro Giovanni. MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). I withdraw my amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. And the next one... [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] .. it is true that we must vote on amendment 1,801.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u357	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u358	Does he have to intervene on this amendment? I thought the explanations of vote had already been made. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u359	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I rise on this amendment to draw attention to the conditions and the way in which the text of certain amendments is voted on: this was the one adopted for the amendment by Senator Esposito, on which - let us remember - there was also a battle of principle by the same presenter. Senator Esposito's amendment contained in its own forecasts that were unacceptable, because they had nothing to do with it: even in that proposal we were talking about double-shifting when we reached 40%. But what is the scope of reference: national or circumscription? How do you calculate it, then? These are a number of issues addressed in the text of the law. When the first paragraph of Article 1 says: 'with the indication of the ballot, if necessary', of course, this is a premise, so we are also faced with a premissive amendment in this case. I am not referring so much to the first part, which is already mentioned in the legal text. I referred to the second part. You have voted against - and we must acknowledge this - an amendment which provides for the ballot, an amendment which, however, had to be foreclosed and not foreclosed. On the other hand, another amendment, which provided for the limit of the two mandates, was precluded when it had no connection with Senator Esposito's proposal. Senator Chiti, you understand that there is something wrong, that is not only related to the fact that we are voting 44,000 amendments, and you can see that there are 20,000 identical amendments, which are easily referred to as a disturbance. There are so many issues that have been dealt with grossly, and Senator Esposito's amendment is proof of that. This is yet another proof of the somewhat superficial way of dealing with an electoral law, which arrives in this Chamber without the rapporteur, who could at any time table amendments which would meet the demands of the House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Perhaps we would also have expressed ourselves in the opposite sense, because the tendency of the majority was by now to take a direction that is not ours, but that would have led to at least the unity of a majority that is no longer there. There is another majority and this is the fact: 30 Senators of the Democratic Party have been replaced by 30 Senators of Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura. Switch seats, make a new party, a new majority! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Change the ministers, change everything. There is a new majority and we have voted for the confidence of this new majority with the amendment of Senator Esposito. That was in fact a new confidence to a new majority that is now in Parliament, in the Senate, with 30 Senators of Forza Italia now passed to the Democratic Party and 30 Senators instead free. Tell that to your constituents! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u360	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.801, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Bisinella, which is essentially identical to amendment 1.803, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other Senators. (The vote was followed). [[Protests from the Mixed-SEL Group. Senator Uras points out that he wants to intervene.]] Sorry, I didn't see, distracted on the other side of the House. I shall cancel the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u361	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u362	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u363	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I rise to say that I shall abstain from voting, in the sense that - it is 9.25 p.m. - I will no longer vote on these kinds of amendments. I'll be absent. The issue we have raised is not about the ability of the senators on all sides and all parties in this House to understand and manage the legislative function. It is a recommendation, on the other hand, to those responsible for the functioning of the Senate to enable all of us to do a decent job. And we complained because there are amendments that should not have been and that we should not have voted. Therefore, I fully appreciate the action and function of President Chiti in this House (and he knows that) and I would never allow myself to make observations that might offend him: neither he nor others. I think, however, that sometimes, if one could do a good afternoon of preparatory work, we would have nothing to say, and we would not even have to do useless obstructions. When we have to do it, in fact, we do it and we see that that's the goal. In this case, we would like the electoral law that will come out of the Senate to need the least number of successive maintenances, being a serious measure. The electoral law exercises the right of sovereignty of the people and we must respect it. We can no longer work in confusion, Mr President. You can no longer work in confusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u364	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u365	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u366	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr Gasparri, I have much respect for what Senator Chiti has done, both in his political history and in the contribution he has made to this debate and to that on constitutional reform, and also for the price he pays within his own political side. But, Mr President, we cannot make a statement here by neglecting the fact that, just a few hours ago, this very House, in a way that we have defined in the most colorful manner (from fraud to mockery), voted an agenda transformed into an amendment which simply reads: "This law, by means of the necessary amendments to the Single Text for the election of the Chamber of Deputies." And I wonder, President Chiti, what the necessary modifications are. It cannot be the addresses written later, because our duty is to make the laws and tell the offices that, through a standard of coordination, they will then do the work. We must be clear about these deceptions. Let's get rid of another doubt, so there are no more cameras in the gallery and we have now realized that the pulp has already been ground. The question now is when to close. 30,000 amendments? 10,000? Two? Three? Four? It's a test of worthless strength. We have understood that there is a new political majority and on this point I agree with the opinions already expressed. Rather, Mr President, you represent this fact to the Government to go to the President of the Republic acting, to come to this House and ask for confidence from a new majority. And don't worry, Senator Crimes, it's just a matter of a few days. Then there will also be the alternation of ministers, there will be some replacement and even a more homogeneous majority. What we are doing here, however, is really a mockery of the Senate. In the face of foreclosed amendments and others that are kept alive, at this point tell us that you have drawn them by lot, deciding that one can stay alive while another must be excluded. We make a reason for this, but at least in its illogicality the process has a logical path. Otherwise, we are being asked here today to vote on amendments which, in the other branch, have been excluded, creating paradoxes for which we say the opposite, voting against an amendment which is based on a general principle. We cannot make much fun of these matters. Suspend the work of the House and convene a new Conference of the Leaders, but do not wait the day after tomorrow for the work to be suspended. Do it now. Show that you have the numbers to be a majority. Minister Boschi, place your trust. Don't you want to put it on? Do what you want, but at least be serious in the path. Do not continue to mock the House by letting, in the confusion of the transition from one amendment to another, there may also be a ridicule of the constitutional seriousness that we must inspire today. [[Senator Mirabelli's comments.]] This is also with good peace from Senator Mirabelli, who raids from the top of the cracks.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u367	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u368	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u369	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I would also ask you to suspend the work of this House and to refer to all the amendments, because we are in danger of putting the employees of the Senate in difficulty today, who have carried out a quick operation under the political pressure of this House, where it is now true that there is a different majority. I would remind you that the law of stability has passed from this House without a few paragraphs and has been rewritten. And since we are voting on the new electoral law, I call on all those who are voting in favour of this indecent law to look their children in the eyes and be ashamed, because they are taking away their right to participate in the next voting! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni. Comments from the PD Group]] Let's make a good analysis of the foreclosed, unpropos and anything else amendments, without shooting "This is foreclosed!', on the other hand, when it is an improbable amendment. We're making a crazy mess! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u370	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u371	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u372	[[Brusio.]] Have Senator D'Anna do the surgery, or else give him more ideas! MARTON (M5S). It's not a concession! You're entitled to it. D'ANNA (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)). But I don't want to bother... president. No, no, please! D'ANNA (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)). I would like to understand, since we are at the embrassons nous here and we all love each other, because we have an opinion against an amendment that is pleonastic and reads as follows: The Chamber of Deputies is elected by universal suffrage, with direct and equal vote, free and secret, attributed to competing lists of candidates. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You went out of the Chamber and did not follow the previous debate. D'ANNA (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)). If you will allow me, I think something is wrong here, but I would like Mr Boschi to tell me. It's the competing lists that don't go, because we have to get to the apotheosis: to a single listone with the first twenty nominated leaders. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u373	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.801, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Bisinella, which is essentially identical to amendment 1.803, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Giovanni Mauro announced the withdrawal of his amendments. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,814, on page 238 of Table XI. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I withdraw it, Mr President, along with amendment 1.815. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that. Amendments 1.816 and 1.819 have also been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,820. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I withdraw amendment 1,820. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that. Amendment 1.821 has been withdrawn. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,823, on page 288 of Tomo XI.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u374	Mr President, I withdraw amendment 1,823.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u375	Mr President, I support Amendment No 1,823 and request the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u376	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,823, tabled by Senators Maran and Susta, subsequently withdrawn and made by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,843, on page 297 of Table XI.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u377	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u378	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u379	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I rise to speak on Amendment No 1,843, do you confirm that? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We are on page 297 of Tomo XI. CRIMI (M5S). We are at number XI, paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. We're freaking out with numbers here! I would like to take the floor because, with this amendment, by Senator De Petris, the words "where gender equality is guaranteed" are inserted in Article 1 (1). They are inserted as an amendment and - in my opinion - in the form perhaps best that could be used, compared to the forms with which we are debating them today. In fact, we continue to foresee a series of stakes and percentages of presence (sex minority compared to the other, and no more 40 and 60 percent, but 50 and 50; double preference of gender, alternating, but only if after the leaders and so on), forgetting that perhaps the concept of gender equality and equal access to applications... I don't know, is something going on? There's Senator Verdini who... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u380	Senator, please, I understand that the day has been...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u381	CRIMI (M5S). Senator Verdini who... president. Senator Crimes, the presidency's gonna call attention. You go ahead. CRIMI (M5S). He is often careless, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's be very careful instead. CRIMI (M5S). It doesn't look like it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Opinions. CRIMI (M5S). Absolutely. I was saying that gender equality should be guaranteed by the same lists, by the same parties, regardless of a law. This is something that I still cannot understand today - it is one of the difficulties I have - namely how a Parliament has to legislate in order to impose rules on itself (which everyone therefore approves, perhaps unanimously, because on certain issues we vote unanimously) that could simply be applied by the same people who every time say that they are to be regulated by law. I want to say that, if we talk about gender balance in applications, and we all agree in favour of participation, we must pay attention: it is different to say that there must be so many women and so many men from saying that they must be put in the same conditions to be able to participate. In fact, it is true that parties can be forced to list so many men and women according to percentage numbers, but we know well what this means, that is that they make a series of fillings of people who do not have the ability to participate actively then, because the state does not put them in a position to do so. I am referring in particular to women who are not in a position to participate in political life. It is there that action should be taken, encouraging participation in the political, social and economic life of those citizens, particularly women and mothers, and not forcing them to list numbers just to have gender balance. I repeat: my difficulty is to understand why a Parliament - as has already happened in other votes - must impose such obvious things on itself that they should already be intrinsic, obvious, even to be reaffirmed, as absolute values that should be of the parties, movements and all the groups that stand in elections. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u382	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u383	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u384	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I admit it peacefully: I do not know how many Members are aware of what is being done in this House. I, and probably many other colleagues, find it difficult to follow the course of this bill. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. In this House it seems that there are type A amendments and type C amendments. The C-type amendments are probably termed "kangaroos," however, if I want to table a so-called kangaroo amendment, I do not know if I should report this to the Presidency in advance. In fact, if the amendment tabled by Senator Esposito was given the value of an introductory amendment of principles, approving which all subsequent amendments, which differ from the principles introduced by that amendment, lapse, this rule - if it is a rule - should apply to all the amendments, including the one we voted on, rejecting it, tabled by Senator Calderoli. Thus, by rejecting an amendment which provides for the secret vote by universal suffrage, free and, with reference to the last, gender equality, all those who do not say the exact opposite of that amendment should be dropped. I'll explain. The question has already been raised, but what are the amendments that can be allowed the luxury of making others decay if they are opposed to that vote and what others can normally approve or reject that do not cause a cascade with catastrophic consequences? They put thousands and thousands of proposed amendments into thin air. President Gasparri, I would like to understand from the Presidency and from the offices how we can or how we must mark amendments which have the effect of having decay. If that logic was applied to the Esposito amendment, all the rules, as well as the amendments, which provide for universal suffrage, with direct and equal vote, free and secret, attributed to lists and gender equality, should be dismissed and we should not even vote on them. If that's the rule, it has to apply to everyone. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u385	The rules are applied.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u386	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u387	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u388	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Since it is a particularly important issue and none of us is trying to intervene in a merely obstructive manner, but it wants to address the issue in substance, I also read what we are talking about. Article 1, paragraph 1, of the bill, in the text presented by the Government, says: The Chamber of Deputies is elected by universal suffrage, with direct and equal vote, free and secret, attributed to lists of candidates competing in multi-named colleges. Amendment 1.843, which we have tabled, adds the words: 'where gender equality is guaranteed'. We will vote in favour of the amendment signed by Senator De Petris, but we do not want to underestimate the importance of an issue here, which is how, in the light of this electoral law proposed by the majority or, better, by the Government, we can guarantee a fundamental principle for so many of us and - we hope - for the whole of Parliament, such as gender equality, before an electoral law that provides for blocked colleges and capilists and multiple nominations. I would remind all of us that this is not an issue to be underestimated because, among other things, on the famous "solitary" Thursday of the tabling of amendments, President Finocchiaro, before the tabling of amendments by President De Petris, assured us that there would be amendments or interventions so that the principle of gender equality could be respected. Beyond the fact that I have not found any trace of the subject in the famous amendment 1,103, which is the famous amendment that contains and protects - the debate we have done today - the whole electoral law, I would like to understand when, how and if the government thinks it is taking charge of giving an answer to an issue that is not entirely irrelevant. I remember that we all signed amendments tabled by President Fedeli. When he was still not Vicar President, he tabled amendments to respect gender equality. Those amendments are no longer there today. We all participated in the important events organized by the movement "If not now, when?" which has posed a fundamental theme. Those demonstrations took place at a particular historical and political moment in Italy, when there was the pleasure and instrumental use of the body of women by the center-right and President Berlusconi. I wouldn't want there to be a part of this country that takes on gender equality only when another part not only attacks and flies, but doesn't take over. I think it is a theme that must find full transversality. But above all we ask the Government, if this amendment should be rejected, how the issue of gender equality is at the heart of this electoral proposal. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u389	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u390	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u391	AIROLA (M5S). A conference of group leaders was requested for tomorrow. Let us look ourselves in the eye: after having kangarooed 35,000 amendments, it is not that you come to make us the quota of the times of the debate, is it? PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency has not, in the state, been asked to convene the Conference of Leaders. AIROLA (M5S). But I say it here! Let me talk to you for a second and I'll finish. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You said that there was a request, that it was not made. TAVERNA (M5S). Let him talk! AIROLA (M5S). It's important. Let's look each other in the eye, Group Leaders. Let's talk to the press. They say out how you're treating democracy. So much for Chiti's statements! Because this doesn't end well, if you start like this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't say that in that tone. Make your observations without threatening tones. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). I use the tones I want and you understand.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u392	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,843 tabled by Senator De Petris. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,845, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "Paragraph 2". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1.845 and amendments 1.846 and 1.847 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u393	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u394	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u395	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr. President, I'll give you the time.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u396	Yeah, we're gonna finish the session. At tomorrow's sitting we will begin to vote on Amendment No 1,900 on page 368 of Table XI. The amendment is at first signed by Senator Minzolini, who thus has all night to think whether to withdraw it or not and will not be able to say that he was surprised by the Presidency. I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u397	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u398	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u399	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, a demonstration took place in Naples this morning. They were the last of the last, i.e. the disabled. Why were these people manifesting, Mr President? They were manifesting why in the Campania Region, with a five-year silence of the PD - which of course is always silent when it is the PdL that must do something - President Caldoro, of the PdL, issued a decree, the number 108, which in fact goes to remove a right, that is the assistance to the last. We're not talking about taking the money out of politics here. No, we're talking about taking the money away from people with disabilities. Then I say that this House must speak to the Presidency of the Campania Region in order to ensure that this decree, which really represents a distortion of human rights, is withdrawn. It is not possible for people to go down to the streets to have their own right protected, a sacred right of the human being. It must be the intelligence and the human heart that does not make these measures issue, but - unfortunately - PD and PdL are ruining Italy, and in Campania they have already killed us with the Land of Fires. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u400	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u401	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u402	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, on 26 November 2013 I tabled a question concerning the operations of cooling water spilling the experimental nuclear reactor of the CISAM Navy of San Piero a Grado, in the Province of Pisa. On December 16, 2014 I got the answer. On 28 May 2014, however, a seminar is held at the "Sant'Anna" school, during which reference is made to the fact that phase 2, i.e. the phase of dismantling the reinforced concrete of the pool, is still stationary due to the spending review. The project for the reclamation of the area is divided into four phases. Now, since the citizens have met in committees and Minister Pinotti has said, in reply to the question, that he is in favour of showing at what point is the reclamation of this site, I address the following request to the Navy and, therefore, to Minister Pinotti. Make contact with those committees of citizens to show them, with their own eyes, where the project is at. This decommissioning project concerns a nuclear plant, which has aroused a great deal of attention and concern among citizens. I therefore call for Mr Pinotti to intervene. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u403	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u404	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u405	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, through the Presidency I urge Minister Guidi to pay a little more attention to the Micron dispute. This is an important dispute, which concerns an innovative industrial pole, that of Catania, but which also has a national value. [[Applause from Senator Puglia]] , due to its presence in other very important industrial sites throughout the country. President Renzi gave a hand and this dispute, which presented difficulties - there were 429 redundancies - was essentially successful. However, there is a "but" that remains open: there are still thirty redundancies that have not been reinstated and involved in the new industrial plan, and six are from Catania. My request, Mr President, is to close this dispute well, because it is not just thirty people who go outside (although there are so many people), but a solemn commitment that has been made by the President of the Council, and the commitments must be maintained. I therefore call on Mr Guidi to make every effort to ensure that the consultation table continues and that the workers involved are placed in the new industrial plan.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u406	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u407	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u408	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I want to bring to your attention and to the House a situation which I have been dealing with for a few weeks and on which there is a strong and considerable concern. This situation concerns a company, in this case the Gallazzi SpA of Tradate, which has been in extraordinary administration for some time and has found its economic balance with a management that has restored it. The problem arises from the fact that the bureaucratic delays or, worse, the uncertainties that are facing the management of the procedure by the Ministry are jeopardising the same ability of the company to remain on the market. We are talking about a company that employs 250 people and has 40% of the world market in the production of adhesive tapes and pharmaceutical blisters. We are talking about a company that stands, a company that works, a company that last year occupied people and managed to grow again by 25% in its turnover. Today this company is unable to guarantee the commitments made with its suppliers and customers, because the Ministry does not define the award procedures to the new successful owner. The concern we have is that bureaucracy kills. We told the Minister: we see uncertainty in management and we are very concerned about this. Therefore, we will bring it to your attention and do so with a formal question that we will be presenting in the next few hours.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u409	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-381.ana.u410	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 22 January, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 22.06 a.m.
