ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 2 April.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u4	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (at 11:09 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u10	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I would like to ask the Presidency to speak to the other House, because since yesterday the media have been blaming us for not being able to approve the draft law aimed at introducing the crime of torture into the Italian legal system. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] Since this House did so more than a year ago, I would ask you to protest to the Presidency of the House of Deputies that it has not been scheduled. We feel that we have done our duty and that we have done it not only well, but also in the correct time, so we reject all the accusations that are being made to us for not having prepared this text. Among other things, one of the draft laws in question had my signature, so I am proud and proud to have helped to approve the introduction of a crime, which we had to do according to the European Court of Human Rights ruling and which we complied with on the first occasion, both in the Commission and in this House. I think this should be noted, because if anything, it is the other branch of Parliament, where, because of problems we do not know, the bill has not been scheduled, so I would like you to protest to the Presidency of the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u11	I say that the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: Rome, 2 April 2015 Mr President, I inform the S.V. that the President of the Republic, by his decree today, adopted on my proposal, appointed Dr. Mr Graziano DELRIO, who ceased his office as State Secretary to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers as Secretary of the Council. F.to Matteo Renzi. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bernini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u12	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1577. I would remind you that at the afternoon sitting on 1 April the rapporteur carried out the oral report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u13	Mr President, we are debating a measure which has a broad scope: the rules contained and the various sectors on which it is based make the whole of the article inconsistent and non-organic. The draft law under consideration is manifestly unconstitutional with regard to the provisions of Article 76 of the Constitution. The exercise of the legislative function cannot in fact be delegated to the Government, except with determination of guiding principles and criteria and only for limited time and for defined objects: these are aspects that absolutely do not correspond in the draft law under consideration. Because of the complexity of the matter dealt with by the delegation, the principles and guiding criteria underlying this measure appear so broad and generic that it presupposes the effective impossibility of the Government to respect the delegation, producing in fact an excess of delegation, which, if submitted to the judgment of the Constitutional Court, would inevitably produce its cassation. Only by way of example, I would like to point out that in the matter of reordering the rules governing local public services, the criteria for delegation identified are characterised by obvious indeterminateness. It is expected, for example, that the new rules will have to be drawn up in accordance with the principles of competition, adequacy, subsidiarity and proportionality: these definitions, if not declined, will remain only mere statements. Moreover, with regard to the reorganisation and redefinition of the discipline and conditions and limits for the formation of companies or for the recruitment or maintenance of participations by public administrations, there is no explicit guarantee to define the minimum essential levels of public service: this aspect is fundamental from the constitutional point of view. The delegation to the Government for the revision of the discipline in the matter of public leadership even produces a real precariousness of the leadership, totally contrary to the constitutional setup imposed by articles 97 and 98 of the constitutional dictation. Certain guiding principles and criteria are formulated, moreover, with expressions referring to eventuality or alternative options, which can be selected by the Delegated Government. In this respect, we must remember, ladies and gentlemen, that the Constitutional Court has pointed out that: "the free appreciation of the delegated legislator can never become a principle or a governing criterion, as far as the opposites of bound legislation are concerned, such as, by definition, delegated legislation." The deadline for the exercise of the delegation appears, moreover, to be devoid of univocity. I want to highlight one last aspect, although certainly not least in importance: this is indeed a major aspect. The text in question, in fact, violates Article 81 of the Constitution: while aware of the difficulty of estimating the financial effects deriving from the forecasts contained in the draft law, since they are principles and criteria of delegation, it is undeniable that in the article there are provisions with onerous effects. We have already seen this with the electoral law: you have used us to make provision for measures at no cost to the bill that even provide for the doubling of the electoral round. However, to foresee that the reform of public administration has no economic influence and that therefore there is no relevance to Article 81 of the Constitution, which provides for cost coverage, seems at least unreal. In view of all this, we believe that the measure is manifestly unconstitutional and that therefore we must not proceed further with the examination of the bill. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u14	He asked Senator De Petris to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u15	Mr President, the draft law containing rules on the reorganisation of public administrations, in our view, is once again contrary to Article 76 of the Constitution - and this is not the first time that we are faced with such a delegation - which provides that Parliament may delegate the Government to enact acts of ordinary law, the so-called legislative decrees, but on the basis and with the observance of very clear and uniform and, above all, very strict and detailed principles and guiding criteria defined by Parliament. In a law delegates the lack or indeterminate nature of these principles and guiding criteria implies that the only guiding criterion for the standardisation of the subject of the delegation would therefore be the free appreciation of the Government and that such an arrangement was declared unconstitutional by the decision of the Constitutional Court of 8 October 2007, n. 340. The draft law in our examination contains essential limits, inconsistencies and profiles of constitutional legitimacy relating precisely to the principles and criteria laid down in Article 76 of the Constitution. In fact, there is a lack - in many objects - of sufficient indications of content to limit the discretion of the delegated legislator. It is, in fact, in view of the peculiarity of the matter and the consequences of some choices on which no direction has been expressed by the delegated legislator, of a real "delegate in white," even with many internal contradictions. The draft law in question violates in several parts the constitutional principles laid down in Article 76 and, in particular: the principle of limited time is not respected since in almost all articles it is foreseen, in addition to the time necessary for the presentation of delegated decrees, also the possibility for the Government to issue further legislative decrees that are correct and supplementary in times not indicated and each decree needs three successive passages: the unified Conference, the Council of State and the parliamentary Commissions. In particular, Article 9 makes it difficult to envisage how many legislative decrees will be required for single roles, with three procedures and four months' time attached. It is, in a word, a delegation that provides for very long times and uncertain determination. With regard to the principle of the establishment of guiding principles and criteria for defined objects, Articles 2, 4 and 7 shall contain provisions containing generic principles and criteria. Moreover, the government project is characterised, in many parts of it, by a strong hyper-accentratory tendency in the hands of the only President of the Council, contrary to the provisions of Article 5 of the Constitution, which defines our organisational model based on the wider administrative decentralisation in the implementation of services based on a strong character of autonomy. Paragraph 3 of Article 3 extends in a general way the mechanism of silence consent also in the procedures in which it is previewed the acquisition of absences, concerts or nothing precludes anyway called of administrations in charge of environmental protection, landscape-territorial, cultural goods and the health of the citizens. Until now, paragraph 4 of Article 20 of Law No 241 of 1990 excludes the silent assent for proceedings with sensitive interests, in the assumption - constitutionally unexceptionable, as repeatedly pointed out by the Constitutional Court - of a prevalence of the public interest over that of private citizens in cases where interests of constitutional rank are involved, as in the cases of cultural heritage and the environment pursuant to Article 9 of the Constitution: In environmental matters, there is a fundamental principle which can be derived from a number of provisions, to be interpreted in a unified manner in the system, according to which the silence of the administration responsible for the environmental constraint cannot have the value of assent (judgment No 26 of 1996 and No 440 of 1997). The forecast, contained in article 7, paragraph 1, letter a), of the absorption of men, means, experiences and abilities established in years of commitment in the defense of the environment, the territory and the agri-food safety of the Forest Body of the State, even if temperate by the term • eventual • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • And again, in article 9, paragraph 1, letter b), numbers 2) and 3) the single role extends also to the leaders of the Regions and local authorities, affecting the matter concerning the organization of the offices that the current article 117 of the Constitution assigns to the exclusive competence of the individual Regions. Moreover, the forecast contained in paragraph 1 (g) of Article 9, according to which the public manager without a post, after a certain period of placement in availability, decays from the single role, constitutes a real dismissal. The absence of office cannot be attributed solely to the responsibility of the individual manager, but more often it is due to the prevailing will of the political authority on which it depends. The text thus allows for too much political interference with the public administration, thereby eliminating the principle laid down in the second paragraph of Article 97, which ensures that public offices are organised in such a way as to ensure the proper functioning and impartiality of the administration. In addition, the data and elements contained in the technical report do not give the necessary guarantee of the absence of new or higher public finance charges, even in the presence of the invariance clause provided for in Article 16 and the safeguard rule provided for in Article 17. For all these reasons, we ask that we do not proceed with the examination of the bill. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u16	We greet the students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo "Alcide De Gasperi" in Castello di Cisterna, in the province of Naples, who are following our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u17	He asked Senator Bernini to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u18	Mr President, the previous speakers have already explained the meaning of the measure in question: it is a draft law following Decree-Law No 90 of 2014, which is still linked to the reordering of public administration, which we believe is right in the objectives, but absolutely ineffective in the results and inappropriate in the method. I would like to say a word of thanks to the Minister, who has been present in the Commission to operate the parliamentary dialectic which unfortunately can only be celebrated there, I would like to thank the Undersecretary, who has also followed the work, and I would like to thank the rapporteur, who has been such a significant and important part of this measure. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the Government and the rapporteur, the magna pars of the changes that have been implemented in the first Commission stems from amendments by the rapporteur and this is not accidental, but it is extremely significant, because unfortunately it gives the measure of how this is a monster measure, an omnibus measure, as Senator Candiani rightly called it, which deals with boundless issues, which contains ocean delegations, which presupposes numerous delegated decrees. We are talking about a measure that has provided itself with a couple of additional articles in the Commission, therefore a measure that consists of four chapters and 17 articles, with an average of four articles per head, which contains ten delegations to the Government on issues of capital significance, related to the public administration, to the simplification of regulations and regulations, to the reorganization of the local public services, to the reorganization of the public holdings held by the public administrations, to the public employment, to the reordering of the police bodies, to the certified signalling of beginning activities and to the silence consent connected to it, to the Conference of services. Colleagues, these are immense arguments, very vast in their complexity, which would have deserved, first of all, a more significant parliamentary beehive and secondly, each of these arguments would have deserved a delegation to itself, would have deserved a discussion, a bill to itself, necessary and sufficient to deepen with due seriousness and efficiency - I stress - matters of such vital importance, in order to answer a question to which we can no longer subtract. And I, Minister Madia, thank you once again, because I understand that your presence in the Commission is neither trivial nor obvious; you are the only Minister who has done so. But, Madam Minister, you shot the arrow, but you didn't hit the target. The explanatory report shows that the first objective is to reduce public administration costs. Madam Minister, you know very well - because the Court of Auditors told us at the hearing, the Bank of Italy told us, the associations of entrepreneurs and consumers told us, the World Economic Forum told us, at the international level, the European Central Bank told us, the International Monetary Fund told us, the OECD told us - that, if we do not reduce the costs of public administration, we will never be able to restart growth and we will never be able to give momentum to GDP. That famous spending review has now disappeared, if not on local and territorial authorities, to the mayors. Only one per cent reduction in expenditure in the central body of the State would lead to a 0.9-1 per cent increase in gross domestic product and a consequent increase in employment. Unfortunately, this measure does not achieve this objective, on the contrary there will be a load of costs, resulting from the amalgamation, reorganization, the re-engineering of executives and police forces. It is true that there is an invariance clause, but unfortunately this has now become a style clause. It is said that these measures will not cost more than is provided for in the provisions of the measure. Madam Minister, it is not so true that Article 17 says that, if there were in the delegated decrees additional costs, the measures contained in the delegated decrees themselves would be postponed. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a solution: this is a postponement, this is an ostrich policy. Again, one of the objectives is to reduce complexity (this says the explanatory report to this measure). As we know - let me quote Kafkiana - the chains of businesses and therefore of users citizens are in the cards of unnecessary regulations. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, unnecessary regulations have not been removed from this measure. There are 400 delegated decrees, inherited from previous governments, but also created by this government, which await implementation. Unfortunately, there are further delegations in this measure, which will not be very easy to implement, even from a time point of view. There are - I stress - positive elements in this provision; but there are so many, too many unevennesses. There are laconic and opaque delegations; there are guiding principles and criteria of which the sense is not understood and which unfortunately lend themselves to constitutionally unreasonable interpretations. And this - I say this from the technical point of view, ladies and gentlemen, which we all have to deal with - will lead to problems both in terms of the implementation of the delegated decrees, in terms - as my previous colleagues reminded me - of adapting to the ratio of Article 76, which provides for the total coverage of the delegation by the principles and guiding criteria, and in terms of the interpretation of constitutionality. I would just like to make a few comments on the content. I would like to make a broad reference to the written text of our question for a preliminary ruling. Some of the issues have already been touched on by my previous colleagues, and these are important issues. When I talk about the unevenness of delegations, ladies and gentlemen, I am referring to the content and measures, within this draft law, which cover matters already regulated by previous measures. An example? The administrative self-protection, the certified indication of the beginning of activity and the silence-acceptance, that have already been normed with the decree-law in the matter of great works, opening of the yards and speeding up of the works in our country, in 2014. Another example? On the independence, impartiality and transparency of the action of the public administration there is a legislative decree of 2013, which covers the issues of inconferibility and incandidability that are dealt with in this provision. And unfortunately, colleagues, for the problem of the succession of laws over time, which is not so automatic (we know that), there is an incongruous and random overlap of content, which very often contradict each other. These delegations are largely opaque delegations: I, colleagues, do not make it a political, but a technical, issue of legislative drafting. I now come to other examples of a markedly political nature. We are now slaves to the dictatorship of the captivating message. It has been said that the Forest Corps has been abolished or drastically reduced. As Mrs De Petris reminded us, are we sure that we must be pleased with this? Once again, I refer to the opacity and lack of coordination with previous provisions that give the Forestry Corps powers in agri-food, environmental matters, prevention of hydrogeological failure, guaranteeing species of fauna and flora. What is the message that comes from such a consideration? There are those who want to abolish the forests by obtaining a saving of expenditure, which is not achieved, colleagues: it will cost us more the transition from the current forests to a different role. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Once again it is a game of prestige, a useless and expensive game of the three cards, which will unfortunately lead us to a decrease in professionalism. With reference to the decrease in professionalism, I would like to mention Article 9, ex Article 10 on public management. Apart from the inexplicable elimination - there is no ratio and this I find constitutionally illogical - of the figure of the municipal secretary, I would like to understand why the unique role of three levels of government and public leadership, as well as of professionalism, should bring a benefit to the impartiality, efficiency and good performance of the public administration: it will lead to a confusion of competences, to mobility often ineffective. Why should he become a better Director-General of a Ministry a municipal manager rather than a central government manager who has been trained exactly to be a ministerial general manager? For what strange reason, which, in my opinion, has nothing to do with merit, must all this take place? Other things have also been remembered. Perhaps the goal is to make public administration more prone and supine to politics. You want to intimidate her. Maybe that's why. Perhaps we also want to do this by creating a figure of dismissal ad nutum, which should horrify the left who has always defended the stability of employment contracts. Making a broad reference to the text of the preliminary ruling that Forza Italia presents, the Forza Italia Group strongly asks for all these reasons not to proceed to the examination of the bill. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senators Bignami and Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u19	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u22	COCIANCICH (PD). Mr President, I believe that, once again, we are faced with a game of the parties, certainly made pleasant by the passionate speeches by Senator Bernini, able to put a frankly admirable passion on battles that deserve a different passion. Nothing is more exhausting than this umpteenth debate on the constitutional prejudices of rules which have been widely debated, discussed, examined and distorted within the Commission. These rules have seen a Parliament competition, recognized by all parties as very positive, in relation to the original bill presented by the Government. In fact, the path taken should be regarded as a virtuous one, since the Commission has not only carried out a very large survey of knowledge, but has raised a very high number of experts and people directly involved in the administration, managers, bodies and bodies affected by this measure. Therefore, the Commission has discussed the matter extensively and has had the opportunity to look into all the issues that are being discussed today. Any merit profiles, already raised today, have had the opportunity to be largely cleared up. There has been a choral competition from all the groups, both in the general debate within the Commission and in the debate on the amendments. Hence, the provision has been profoundly changed and changed. It is an absolutely virtuous measure from the point of view of deepening the debate on merit, also in relation to the constitutional prejudices: it is proof of the generality with which these questions are presented today, thrown there just to put them forward, as in order not to leave anything unattempted, even if, frankly, they are completely inconsistent in the substance. There is evidence that Senator Bernini had to resort immediately to criticism of the substance of the draft law: for example on the issue, which will certainly commit this Assembly, of the maintenance or restructuring of the State Forestry Corps. In this regard, let me remind you from now on that Italy is the only country in Europe to have a State Forestry Corps. I doubt that other European countries of long constitutional tradition should be considered unconstitutional themselves because they do not have the State Forestry Corps. This shows how fragile the criticism of this measure is at the moment. In fact, this is a very important measure, which has a profound impact on the future organization of our administrative life. I do not hesitate to compare it, by scope, with even more important reforms recently debated (such as constitutional reform) and, certainly, from a practical point of view, for citizens, it will have even more incisive effects. That is why, however, it cannot be discussed and dealt with in detail at the parliamentary level of this House. This is a typical subject for which it is envisaged, constitutionally, that delegation criteria be drawn up, which are in this case very specific (also due to the long debate held in the Commission), and that the Government then proceed to the implementing decrees of these delegations, knowing that in the future, however, there will still be time for Parliament to express itself on the implementation of these implementing decrees. Therefore, I recall the inconsistency of the references, such as that made by Senator Candiani, to the decision of the Constitutional Court (which says nothing more than what we already know), which are ritually repeated and re-enacted as if they were exceptions in some way pertinent. But what does it mean that the free appreciation of the delegated legislator can never become a principle or a governing criterion in terms of the antipodies of bound legislation, what by definition is the legislation by delegation? Well, in this very case we see that the substance of this measure before the House is sufficiently specific and includes these criteria and principles. Therefore, everything can be said except that it is delegated only to the free appreciation of the legislator the exercise of the criteria of delegation. To affirm this means perhaps not even to have read to the full and not to have fully understood the provision. Therefore, the Democratic Party Group will certainly vote against the constitutional prejudices presented by the Groups and firmly in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u25	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I find it almost funny that Senator Cociancich defines the prejudices set out generically, arguing - he really does - in a general and awkward way. It is, in fact, an indefensible measure on the part of the Government, of which Senator Cociancich at this moment is a guardian, if nothing else from the rhetorical point of view. I find it really improper for the Commission to demand constitutional legitimacy on an act that was born on the initiative of the Government and was entirely defined by this in terms of what could or could not be approved in the Commission. We have only had amendments by the rapporteur, with a few rare exceptions, but we have also had amendments on some demolishing occasions and on some other introductions to new subjects, such as Article 15 of the Commission's text, which is worth talking about separately. They did and unpacked at will. The rapporteur's amendments, even when formally suggested by the Commission's amendments, have betrayed the meaning of the proposals made with swindled and artificial meanings. This is the case with Article 13 (ex 14), which had to do with the shares held by municipalities and public administrations and with the public services provided. The Commission, I would say almost unanimously, called for the implementation of the 2011 referendum, clearly distinguishing between public service and private interest, between the aims of public administration, namely the management of services for citizens at the lowest cost and with the best quality, compared to the profit sought, albeit legitimately, by private individuals but in the market and in the private sector. We were simply asking for a gesture of consistency and instead, in the rapporteur's text, we adopted a deliberately ambiguous formula, which puts European legislation ahead of Italian legislation, noting that the 2011 referendums had also had full legitimacy with respect to European treaties and legislation and that, therefore, there was no point in calling for such legislation. 11:44 a.m. (Follow ENDRIZZI). I therefore believe that this is a suspicion. Even in this situation, we have had proof that the Government has a clear intention that it is carrying out, cutting the prerogatives of the Senate in this case, but in general of Parliament, deciding what is possible and what is wanted. So we come to two paradoxes. We are talking about the silent assent of public administrations and, in essence, it is defined and asked of Parliament. The government sees Parliament as an agent of disorder and not of control, not as the holder of the legislative function, but as a meddling on the road of the powerful of Europe, of the lobbying, of the established powers. They are bringing home what they wanted, namely the removal of the State Forestry Corps, the only force touched by this measure, which aimed at harmonization and synthesis between five different law enforcement forces. Well, they have touched only one, the one that - by chance - is the bulwark compared to environmental crimes, the most efficient and freer compared to political power, compared to other local control bodies often partitioned and enslaved. We cannot trust this government. We cannot give this government our silent consent. That is why questions have been referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling and we do not think that we should examine the draft law in question. I add a second paradox. In the last article, inserted in the nighttime in concert between the rapporteur and the government, the latter holds his hands free in order to be able to repeal the norms that previewed implementing decrees from the end of 2011. We need to know that, with this delegation, we give the Government the opportunity to change the legislation that we are going to discuss today - or rather, we would discuss, because I hope this does not happen - and that therefore it will not have a temporal order within which to place itself. At any time, in fact, coming this legislation passed after 2011, the Government will be able to decide what to comply with and what to ignore, going to cut and sew everything we say today. We cannot give this blank delegation to Mr. Renzi and his manipulators. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u26	I put to the vote the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Senator Candiani and other senators (QP1), Senator De Petris and other senators (QP2) and Senator Bruno and other senators (QP3). It's not approved. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u27	Mr President, Minister, I will take little time because we want to leave room for discussion of the amendments. I would like to thank, and I say this in an entirely informal way, the rapporteur for the difficult work he has done in representing, even in a mediating way, the impulses coming from both the Commission and, in a strong way, the Government. So I can only say thank you to Mr Pagliari for the difficult work he has done on a piece of legislation of absolute importance. I believe that the nature of the measure has changed in part, or rather: there was the ambition to propose a reform of the public administration, but you, Minister, teach me that this in our examination is something different, so much so that we were forced to change the title of the measure to "Delegations to the Government in the matter of reorganisation of public administrations." I also want to say to you, Minister, with great sincerity, that there are also positive steps. The measure contains just ambitions that a Government sets itself when it thinks it can intervene in an incisive way on an important and complex machine such as that of the State. However, the problem that we have posed ourselves - and it has already been said in the debate on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling - is that, in reality, the content, which can be criticized or not, is totally lacking. There is no content, because in fact we are talking about an absolute delegation that Parliament gives to the Government on a number of central and important issues that would have needed at least a more comprehensive debate. In fact, there aren't even, Minister, the guiding criteria. I would also like to say to the Undersecretary that, with good will, he has helped us to understand certain passages as well. But we come to absurdities that may not even interest outside. I would like to say to my fellow Members, if they still think they have their own legislative scope, that here we can even do something on the contrary, that may not be important, if you like, from the outside. We are even able to delegate the government to define, in relation to the related needs, the right of Members of Parliament: we give the Government the opportunity to choose which rights are the rights of Members of Parliament. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I understand you don't care much now. At this moment it is almost irrelevant that you all give the government the opportunity to decide your ability to be parliamentarians, but you will be very interested when you realize that someone else decides for you. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] On the other hand, this measure leaves great concern. I would like to ask the Minister, for example, whether he will take into account the views of the Commissions, and especially the Environment Commission, which have expressed a firm position on the continuity of the work carried out by the Forest Guard, stating that, at a time when there are particular perceptions of the delicacy of the environment, the only force that probably has the specific continuing competence to work on it is to be dismantled. Dear Minister, please listen to me. You invented a lie - I use this word too - about municipal secretaries. It started well by saying that it wanted to eliminate the municipal secretaries, and not because we resent them, but because it could still make sense, maybe even shareable. If, however, you then bring those same subjects back into the municipal administrations, forcing the municipalities, even those who do not need them, to take them as managers, it is - allow me - a mockery. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is a mockery for the administrations and above all it constitutes a further injury to the autonomy of choice of the local authorities, at a time as difficult as today, when they hear bad stories. Either you choose to put security figures, as the municipal secretaries could be, even giving them wider powers, or you allow the overall spoil system of leaderships. You can't take the former city secretaries and force the municipalities to have them as executives. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I believe that this is common sense, and not "bad" opposition. Moreover, today I am a little less evil, because yesterday the Government at least did not challenge the law on the referendum of Lombardy, which can therefore be done, and through which the Lombards will ask for their autonomy. So, that's fine with it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I do not want to go any further, so much the general debate - as they say - is so: in this case, for us, it is preparatory to the debate on the amendments. We will ask for the deletion of the part concerning local public services for three reasons. First of all, I want to see you, ladies and gentlemen, when you go to the territory to say that the government has decided that companies on the territory must no longer be there. You go and explain to them why, without making any difference between those that are effective and those that are not. There are no criteria, Mr Undersecretary, and you know that, because it is a blank delegation. Secondly, there is a request from the ANCI, which - as you know, dear Minister and dear Undersecretary - is a well-known group of extremists. It is well known, in fact, that the Italian municipalities are a group of extremists. They ask, please, at least in this area, for a halt to legification, because they are still closing part of the implementation of the Delrio law, and they literally ask for a little bit of quiet legislation. Thirdly and finally, in this area, Mrs Minister, the operation on local public services leaves us worried. In this Government there are ministers who - for example - deal with professional energy and we put in their hands the delegation on companies that also deal with energy. Allow me to make a joke: it's like putting Dracula in the chair of VIS. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Given what happened with the banks and other things, perhaps a minimum of reflection all together should be done. I believe that the common interest of companies working on the territory must be removed and treated independently. And let's leave the mess on the Chamber of Commerce, where we now proceed by numbers, without even looking at the territory, and we decide to do some things. Finally, Mr President, as the rapporteur is well aware, we had even tabled an amendment similar to that of a fellow member of the Democratic Party, but it was tabled later. Well, ours was eliminated to get the PD through. These are lows of a small and low government, which is looking for some more consensus in some valley, but does not make the general interest. Attention, however, Mrs. Minister: if you do not do the general interests, you do those of some Minister. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u28	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u29	Mr President, I will speak on a specific point, to which Senator Bernini has already referred during her explanation of the question referred for a preliminary ruling. This is, of course, a measure that concerns many aspects, but in the few minutes that I will commit here in this House I want to focus on the issue of the State Forestry Corps. The Renzi Government, in fact, had other intentions and had started with the hypothesis of far wider combinations of police forces: that there is this intention in the action of the Government confirmed it a few days ago Deputy Minister Morando - a person whom we well know here in the Senate and who does not speak at random - who in an interview said that the police forces should be only one or, at most, two. Now, that we have been discussing for years of amalgamation and rationalization is a fact, but that this is useful to the country is all to be demonstrated. Probably, if we colonized a new planet and landed on Mars, starting from scratch a new era, we could make a single force with our own specializations. We are in Italy, however, in 2015: there are stories, traditions, organizations and ramifications of the various police forces, some with military order, others that have no longer had it (the reform implemented by Law No 121 in 1981 has changed many things for some of them). There is, in short, a experience of our nation that cannot be erased and possible rationalization interventions would involve more problems and costs than solutions. So what has the Renzi Government done now? Faithful to the logic of the announcements without facts, not being able to assemble Police and Carabinieri - fortunately we stopped them already a year ago on this ground - nor being able to do more interventions, according to the religion of the slide - according to which we tell something to be described in a tweet or in a quick image to be flown during a press conference - intends to reduce from five to four police forces. To do this, we have taken the smallest number, the Forest Corps of the State, because ultimately the handling of 8,000 or 9,000 people can create less trauma than interventions of wider scope. Renzi, like this, can say: We have reduced the police force, which is no longer five, but four! Maybe he doesn't even know what they are or what they do, but the important thing is to tell something. Why, then, is the hypothesis contained in the measure we are examining wrong? Meanwhile, the amalgamation of the State Forestry Corps in the State Police would not produce any economic advantage. Almost 100% of the expenditure is related to the payment of staff salaries, which would still be carried out and, therefore, there would be no significant change from the point of view of public expenditure. There would then be problems in combining the State Forestry Corps with the Police, in various respects. First, it would not be possible to continue in the management of the 150 state nature reserves, built on state property land, secured today, at very low costs, also by personnel managed by the State Forestry Corps, pursuant to specific rules. There would be duplication of facilities between Carabinieri and the State Police, and the State Police should manage the 800 stations of the State Forestry Corps, which I imagine would not be cancelled. They would change teaches and go to create confusion with the Carabinieri's weapon, which - as we know - has a structure composed of thousands and thousands of stations on the territory, with a more widespread presence than other police bodies. New burdens would also be created: we only think about uniforms, liveries and symbols, with a higher spending of tens of millions of euros in the short and medium term. The existing conventions between the State Forestry Corps and the Regions, which provide a lot of savings, would fail, and as a result a whole series of advantages would disappear. Then there is a contradiction, which perhaps the competent minister does not know, and so we take the opportunity to tell him: six forest bodies of autonomous regions and provinces would remain alive, which have been confirmed with the approval of amendment 7.117 by the 1st Senate Commission. Therefore, we would have the absurd result of merging the State Forestry Corps with the State Police, but six Forest Corps of some Regions and Provinces with Special Statute would remain alive. At this point, I wonder who could forbid the other 15 Regions with an ordinary statute to become their own forestry body: they would ask, in analogy with the Regions with a special statute, to be able to create it and would open a debate of constitutional rank, on the legitimacy of this request, before the Constitutional Court. In addition, provincial police services and bodies, operating locally, would be maintained in the face of a national police force. As far as the activities of the Provinces are concerned, I would point out that there is a problem. With the alleged abolition of the Provinces remains the problem of provincial police that, being usually involved in tasks related to the hunting matter and however environmental and territorial, are very similar to the Forest Corps of the State and, therefore, would have had a logic, if anything, to connect them with the Forest Corps of the State. Instead, he chose to merge the Forestry Corps with the State Police, without any economic advantage, without knowing what the provincial police will do. I therefore call for an alarm in this regard, because these are civil servants who have a professionalism and competence that should be used to protect the territory. You see, colleagues, with this choice, there would be less professionalism accumulated by the State Forestry Corps - there are, in fact, three national centres for biodiversity, which are important for the preservation of the genetic heritage of forest plants - and also a specialist competence in environmental protection, once they have merged members of the State Forestry Corps in the State Police, which could possibly use them for public order or other competences, for which they are perhaps not sufficiently prepared, while they are competent in essential matters. Problems would also arise in the allocation of certain tasks, such as state monitoring of forest assets, including compliance with the Kyoto criteria, or a whole range of prevention activities with regard to hydrogeological risk, naturalistic censuses, environmental education and many other issues. In recent days, the commander of the Forest Corps of the State of Campania has remembered - for example - a theme that, in the Senate Hall, is often evoked, that is the land of fires and the action carried out by the members of the Forest Corps of the State in Campania - and not only in that Region - to protect our territories and, consequently, the food chain, that is what we eat, and the health of the citizens. Therefore, the consolidation operation of the Forest Corps of the State is very wrong, irrational and is the result of the incompetence of the Government. It does not mean - I repeat - savings, because more than 90% of the expenditure is made up of salaries that should be paid within the Department of Public Security and, specifically, within the framework of the State Police. Perhaps you should appoint an additional deputy chief who should manage this staff that has certain skills and skills, and not others. We therefore give a signal of weakening in a subject - the protection of the environment and the territory - which instead becomes increasingly important and felt by citizens. We also see this when, on television, fiction inspired by this kind of commitment reaches higher listening peaks than normal products of the same kind of entertainment. It will also be because they are fiction set in beautiful places but the operation, shown through television, of the staff of bodies still used to protect the territory and our forests arouses a feeling of approval, esteem and trust in the citizens. We shall therefore table specific amendments on this point. I do not deal with other subjects that will deal with other colleagues. I would just add that we believe that the understanding of the police forces does not lead to savings but to chaos, confusion and overlaps, while other is to determine more precisely the competences of the individual police forces. This can, can and must be done to ensure savings. If the State Police specializes in communication because it has developed, through the evolution of the Postal Police and today, of communications, its activity, let it carry out the activity of contrasting hackers or protection of telematic networks. If the Carabinieri of the Core that deals with the protection of the artistic heritage have obtained important results and accumulated important knowledge, let them carry out this activity. If the Finance Guard is an economic-financial police force, let certain activities be reserved, without overlaps, for that body. And we could continue with other examples because often, within the police forces of general competence, we have nuclei that carry out similar activities and lead to waste and overlap. In such cases one can intervene, rationalizing and avoiding interweaving but certainly not attacking the Forest Corps of the State, against which the Italians have esteem, which carries out a very important task and today, faced with the increased environmental sensitivity and the greater concern for the protection of the territory, is called to exercise indispensable functions. We, in supporting our amendments, are certain that a virtuous, positive and cross-cutting consensus can be generated in this House to avoid, among the many mistakes, that this is also committed within a demagogic, ineffective and only harmful reorder supposedly of the public administration. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ministro, rapporteur, I am speaking in general debate on this draft law for the reform of public administration, pointing out that it gives us the opportunity to intervene in the very particular field of research in universities and, in particular, in public research bodies. (at 12.10 p.m.) In the 7th Commission, we have worked on a subject on which we have followed a long series of hearings, from which the world of public research bodies has made clear the need to recognise a particularity in the world of research in relation to public administration. The assimilation of public research bodies into public administration nowadays involves a number of issues that are poorly suited to research work. I remember that the figure of the researcher is very particular and has characteristics that are not found in other professional figures of the public administration. The researcher enjoys - for example - the freedom of research and professional autonomy, which derives directly from the European Charter of Researchers, which Italy has accepted. His work is deeply intellectual, which is not reflected in other areas. However, it is thought that at this moment an architect of the land registry office is treated in the same way, from a regulatory point of view, as a researcher of a public research body. There is, therefore, a spontaneous need to implement in this measure, in which we have the opportunity to do so, what I would call a cultural exception. On the other hand, Article 33 of the Constitution states that arts and science are free and free to teach them. Therefore, this cultural exception derives directly from the constitutional dictation. The demand from the research world is to define first of all a common legal status for researchers from public research bodies; a special statute for research, which separates it from the rest of the public administration, and finally a separate sector bargaining for researchers and technologists from public research bodies. The separation of public research bodies from the public administration is an act that would give the institutions the opportunity not so much to enjoy a 360 degree deregulation - that is not what is being asked - but greater flexibility in procedures. Think - for example - of the regulations on missions or turnover: in the past, public research bodies have suffered from turnover restrictions, which are directly derived from those imposed on the public administration and have caused a progressive reduction in the number of researchers employed in public research institutions. A separate sector, therefore, would give the possibility to operate through that principle of responsible autonomy, always bound to the budget dedicated to them. In fact, it must be borne in mind that public research institutions have an ordinary operating fund, which derives directly from legislative decree n. 213 of 2009, and are nevertheless bound to operate within those budget rules. It is therefore necessary to intervene, even with recruitment and career progressions free from turnover limitations, in full autonomy and with ex post and non-ex ante evaluations. It is not, therefore, a deregulation, but simply the recognition to the sector of the search for a particular status, which derives directly from the constitutional dictation and cannot be applied at this time, because there is equivalence to the rest of the public administration, which is not appropriate to the functioning of public research bodies. I would therefore ask the Government and the rapporteur to reflect on this aspect in this Chamber, by accepting some delegated amendments that I shall present, which make the difference in order to enhance the activities of public research bodies. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u32	Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a measure in this House which Italy has been waiting for a long time and which is crucial for the modernisation of the country. Public administration reform has been repeatedly referred to as a decisive measure, but it has often been invoked in a very different spirit than the various reforms that the political class has undertaken. This attitude was not lacking even in the constitutional reforms and in the law no. 56, which followed the formation of the metropolitan cities. But the reformating thrust that Renzi government has put in place has not stopped and has not only proposed immediate actions in the face of urgent problems with the decree Madia, but has also re-launched a coordinated set of norms and delegations that it is not excessive to say that they will revolutionize the public administration. You see, ladies and gentlemen, it is not irrelevant to stress this fact: we are reforming the Italian State in its various articulations and levels. We are modernising it, which means that we are trying to make it a factor of competitiveness, and no longer curbing the full expression of the potential of citizens, families and businesses. On this point I would like to make a quote about a public meeting that, as a young municipal secretary of the People's Party, organized on the occasion of the 1996 election campaign, when he was a candidate for the Senate, in the college of my territory, Professor Andrea Manzella, who proposed to invite Beniamino Andreatta. I picked him up in Bologna and, during the trip, we had the chance to talk about public administration, a theme that he resumed during his speech to the public, setting an example. If we ask an official of the French public administration to briefly describe his work, we will hear him answer that it is to help the development of his country. If we address the same question to a German official, we will hear that it is to facilitate the lives of citizens and businesses. If we ask an Italian official, he'll tell us that he's there to enforce the law. It was not a joke, but a simple way to focus attention on the proactivity deficit of the Italian public administration, as French and German officials also certainly enforce the laws. An important part of the challenge is dealt with in the draft law under consideration, of which I mention only Articles 2, 3 and 4 concerning the Conference of Services, the silent consent and the reorganization of the licensing regimes, emphasizing the decisiveness of the implementation of Article 1 on digital citizenship, which becomes the main authorising criterion of the new public administration. Secondly, modernising the state means that we are trying to make it a factor of homogeneity in the country, and not of differences. I would like to focus on this point, because I think it is an aspect that is too much on track. The scissors that divide the country are many, but we can no longer afford what factor of these differences is the unevenness of public administration. I say this knowing that I come from a Region, Emilia-Romagna, which is rightly viewed as a reference for procedures, organization, control capacity and programming of spending. But also in Emilia-Romagna we are aware of two things. The first, which, among other things, the new President, Mr Bonaccini, has put at the top of his programme, is the simplification of legislation. The second is the participation in a common commitment to make the country homogeneous, which cannot see territories "on the run" through very advanced procedures, because the scissors open with the movement of both blades. Let me give a very clear example: the introduction of the TARI took place at the time when it was concluded for a long time, for most of the municipalities of Emilia-Romagna, the shift from tax to tariff. Many municipalities had already dismantled the waste tax collection and the recovery of related morosity, because hundreds of thousands of citizens already paid the bill to the service manager. Today they had to re-fit them, also having to manage the financial imbalances between what they have to pay to the service manager and what they collect with the TARI. We're back. At least I think so, even if I have to admit that in Italy you can never be sure if the way we are going is forward or backward. But this reform of public administration must do this: establish in the short, medium and long term the direction of moving forward. To conclude, I would like to highlight the reform of the Senate Woods, which we are pursuing in the two branches of Parliament. The Senate of the Regions must also be seen as a great opportunity to reduce scissors, to give homogeneity to the normative bodies of regional competence and, ultimately, to make Italy more united, also through the daily confrontation that the reformed Senate, in its new composition, will make possible. Thirdly, modernising the state means trying to make it appropriate at all institutional and administrative levels to its essential tasks of action, protection and guarantee, avoiding seeing it unevenly present in too many areas that do not belong to it. This is a crucial issue if we are to make sense of the recurring debate on the reduction of public expenditure. In conclusion, I would like to say a few words about the participating companies managing local public services. While in a first historical phase the creation of instrumental companies with the outsourcing of the services has had the merit of identifying the dimension of cost centers that were not recognizable within the municipal budgets, the subsequent legislation has developed with sufficient coherence a substantially industrial vision, based on the conviction that the infrastructural networks are decisive factor of the competitiveness of a territory. Infrastructure networks and assets are held by the territories, but are managed entrepreneurially and the efficiency of business management occurs only with the check point that is the tendering of services. Local authorities also monitor the adequacy of service costs in relation to investments that develop and maintain network efficiency. Here, too, I realize that I have a territory behind me, that of Emilia Romagna, where the municipalities, hundreds of municipalities, shared a strategic choice. The historic presence of municipalized societies has represented an important heritage of technical and human skills, of investments of local communities, which over the decades have made equal opportunities for citizens, but above all have made possible a great level of sustainability of our development, even when the concept was not so widespread in the consciousness of citizens. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u34	Let's get this sentence over with.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u35	COLLINA (PD). The choice was to make the companies more efficient, to reorganize them, to give them critical mass, to constitute economies of scale that gave us the opportunity to win the races and to continue to manage with our societies the local public services, just to not sell off all that heritage formed in decades and that precisely with this choice had the great possibility to be not only adequate in the administration of the services, but could return resources to the communities. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you have to finish. COLLINA (PD). If you'll give me another minute. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have already had two minutes longer than the time allocated to your Group. COLLINA (PD). I therefore request that the remaining part of my speech be appended to the Minutes of the sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u36	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's draft law is based on the shared need to rationalise and simplify the functioning of public administration, with a view to achieving two equally acceptable objectives: to ensure a more effective internal functioning of public administrations and to ensure a faster and more transparent provision of services to citizens. However, by reading the contents of the bill, we realize how much are, as it were, original and controversial the measures by which the Government intends to respond to the request, however legitimate, by the community, of greater effectiveness and professionalism in the administration of the services. Listening to the colleagues who preceded me and Senator Gasparri himself, I would like to point out that one of the problems contained in the measure is undoubtedly the suppression of the State Forestry Corps and its absorption to the State Police. It is an incomprehensible decision, which frankly leaves groundwork, since it contributes to the depletion of all those activities of land control, typically carried out by forests and aimed at the protection of the environment and public health. The choice of the Government to eliminate the Forest Body of the State is, in fact, unjustifiable, against the very high specificity and professionalism that distinguishes the activity of environmental police carried out by the latter, with enormous competences that have allowed, especially in recent years, the detection of serious crimes against the territory and the environment. Two examples apply to all: the land of fires and the mega illegal dump of Bussi, discovered precisely by the Forest Guard in 2007. The 5 Star Movement is totally opposed to its abolition and we have shown this abundantly also during a press conference, and by presenting in the Commission several amendments, all rejected, and that, in the light of the demonstration held solemnly last Tuesday, we hope that they will be taken into consideration in the House by a government that makes superficiality and oversimplification the dominus of its action. Another aspect that surely imposes a reflection is that relating to the delegation to the Government in the matter of conference of the services, especially in the passage of the text in which it is expected that it is considered however acquired the assent of the administrations that, within the term of the work of the conference, have not expressed, in the forms of law, their own will, and this, even if they are administrations responsible for the protection of health, the historical-artistic heritage and the environment. The progressive and documented permeability of the public administration to the phenomena of corruption imposes a serious reflection on the effective usefulness of a norm that, if approved, would produce a further assault on diligence by traditional criminal organizations and occult centers of power or business that, in the name of profit (and only of profit), and putting in place an incomparable unknowingness and unscrupulousness, could be easily authorized to use, for mere private and business purposes, of goods of invaluable environmental, historical and artistic value. I ask that attention be paid to this and that corruption be seriously curbed. Allow me, then, to focus on the delegation contained in Article 9 of the draft law, concerning the public management and the evaluation of the returns of all public offices; a point of the measure on which the Government demonstrates all its confusion regarding the functions and status of the school leadership. The delegation in question provides for a single role to be established in the Presidency of the Council of Ministers in which the heads of state universities, public research bodies and chambers of commerce are brought together and school managers are excluded because of the non-management nature of their role. However, in the draft law improperly defined by the Government "the good school" are recognized to the school leaders tasks of a purely managerial and managerial nature, recognizing to the latter, in addition to the power to choose their own team of teachers, with direct calls, also the possibility to identify educational paths and to valorize the educational merit alternative to the traditional ones, through the obtaining of external financing and sponsorships. It is clear, therefore, that the Government has voluntarily decided to degenerate the public function of the school manager, making his specificity and his role as a good father of the family in the planning and carrying out of the educational-creative activities, deciding to transform him into a head of the company, mainly bound to a cold cost-benefit analysis in the realization of his educational mission, without having been carried out since 2000 a serious preparation of managers and managers and, therefore, a managerial qualification. We have not even been allowed to table amendments within this measure to include school leaders in the unique role of the Presidency of the Council. This decision of the Government is to be censored in the method and in the merit! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u37	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u38	Mr President, I am speaking only on one particular aspect of this measure. I've carried out a great deal of historical battles in defence of the Forest, but there's a current aspect of its tasks and functions that doesn't convince me at all. I'd like to have the attention of the Deputy Minister of the Interior, Senator Bubbico.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u39	Deputy Minister Bubbico, Senator Giovanardi is addressing you directly as Deputy Minister Delegate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u40	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). I was saying that historically I have defended the autonomy and function of the Forestry Corps on the territory, because it represents a great heritage aimed at protecting the environment and the territory and historically has always been a friend of the mountaineers, of the people who live in Italy in the most endangered territorial areas, of the farmers and direct farmers. I have already presented acts of inspection union to understand how it is possible that a state police body with small stars could sign a convention with Mr Brambilla, and with the most fundamentalist animalist associations, according to which these associations provide advice and training to members of the Forestry Corps. The consequence is that at a time when, as is the case today, the associations denounce the breeders - there is currently, for example, a battle against the breeding of lambs, rabbits and any other form of breeding - the Forestry, in verifying whether the complaint of the LAV (Lega anti vivisection) is founded, uses the very consultants of the LAV, the same with whom it signed the convention, for which the outcome is evident. When you go to court to defend the reasons of the animalists there are always consultants of the animalist associations. And if the lawsuit is won, who cashes the compensation? Animalist associations. If, however, the cause is lost, the State pays. I would like to understand now, since I understand very well the reasons of those who defend the interests of animals, who defends the interests of millions of people who live in Italy of the farming activity. I think only of what all this means, from an economic point of view, for my Region, Emilia-Romagna, whose agriculture passes through the breeding of pigs, the same applies to Forlì with regard to poultry breeding and all the forms of breeding that pass through a fair balance between the interest and animal health and the needs of production. Mr Vice-Minister - should I actually address the Minister of Agriculture, to whom I have already mentioned this issue - is it not appropriate to denounce this type of agreement, which is unusual and never seen, according to which a body of the state which carries out judicial police functions is going to counter the rights of farmers through advice from animalist associations that represent the worst enemies of farmers? The situation is unsustainable because in this way, either for the dolphinarium in Rimini or for interventions with a leg tense in various parts of Italy, the Forestale risks no longer being the friend, the consultant on the territory, especially in the most disadvantaged areas of the mountain, of the people who in this country still have the courage to live the mountain, with all the related difficulties, in order to carry on a mountain economy that is still based on a bit of breeding, but risks becoming the enemy. Therefore, it is very good if the Forest is engaged in the land of fires to combat the great pollution situations. It's your job to do that. But it is not appropriate for it to ride everywhere, especially in rural areas, a radical chic environmentalism that challenges those who still have the courage to live in the mountain and defend the most forgotten areas of our country, those that need to be anthropized and not completely abandoned. I wanted to stress this aspect of the matter, in the hope that the Government will intervene in relation to this obnoxiousness - since I do not know how a commander of the Forestale could sign this convention - in order to remedy it. This is in order to allow a police body to be what it must be, i.e. a neutral, independent and independent body and not subordinate to the needs of this or that other association. [[Applause from Senator Albertini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u41	Senator Moscardelli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u42	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this debate should be used to make a better contribution to a reform that has a fundamental function, a central role in the vast programme of reforms that the Government and the majority are pursuing in relation to the challenge of modernising our country. Some speeches have seemed to me objectively too limited in wanting to point out or represent specific interests with respect to an issue which is important, but which here is clearly a first step compared to the reordering of police forces. I believe it is necessary to thank the Government first of all, for the courage and determination to carry out this reform, which we could define the reform of reforms for the function and importance of public administration and for the level of inefficiency and inadequacy, albeit with the necessary exceptions, which it represents today in real terms and in the feeling of our country. Special thanks go to the Commission and the rapporteur, who have made an important contribution to improving the Government's text. What do the Ministry of the Interior, the City of Milan, the National Social Security Institute or the Institute of Independent People's Housing in Trapani have in common? They are organizations linked to each other by a common purpose, that is to allow our Republic to achieve its constitutionally identified objectives such as the maintenance of order and public security (the Ministry of the Interior), the collection of contributions and the provision of social benefits (the INPS), the realization of popular homes and their allocation to people who are not well-off (the Independent Institute of People's Homes). Moreover, these organisations have well-defined and complementary roles between themselves and, according to the various regulatory rules, must act in a reasonable manner in relation to the objectives assigned to them and, above all, they need economic resources in order to be able to function. The reform therefore goes to touch the organization of the public administration with the objective of rationalizing, efficient and modernising the same in order to produce an element of strong advancement of our country system and, at the same time, to obtain a saving of public expenditure precisely acting in the field of inefficiencies. I therefore believe that this opportunity should be taken in a completely different way. Of course, as the rapporteur, Senator Pagliari, pointed out, other fundamental measures for the change of paradigm in our public administration are in the background: for example, administrative action or the system of controls. In particular, in administrative action we need to overcome a profoundly stratified concept in our public administration: to favour the formalism of acts as an instrument in order to better respond to the need for impartiality and good performance of public administration. In fact, over the years, this approach has degenerated, with various inefficiencies, taking the place of what must instead be the objective of administrative action, i.e. the result at the service of citizens and businesses. The whole of the organizations that are identified in everyday language with the expression of public administrations represents, within the Italian Republic, the numerically predominant part on the rest and capillaryly and constantly present in the daily lives of citizens. It is to it that day by day the citizen or the enterprise, in order to be able to take advantage of those public services that represent the founding element of our community. The process of reform of public administrations or of that complex set of organizations constantly present in our daily life, represents therefore a fundamental step for the modernization of our Country or better, recalling the words of the president of the ECB Mario Draghi, a reform of system with wide potentials of growth for the Italian economy, whose implementation can guarantee a growth of our gross domestic product indispensable in order to allow Italy to remain well hooked to the cars of head of the European train. Today's delegation law deals with the organizational design of public administrations, making it predetermined, stable and certain. Consequently, action is taken on the scale of the capital and financial means necessary to make it work and on human resources, which, with their work at the service of the equipment, allow everything to work. Finally, we renew the legal instruments or on the legally relevant activities, which I allow public administrations to achieve their objectives through legally pre-constituted and consistent behavior patterns with modern times. There are many rules that deserve to be emphasised, as Senator Pagliari has done well in his report; I will just mention some of them which seem very important to me. Among the many aspects of the reform, I believe it is useful to recall the main points contained in Article 1, which introduces digital citizenship and which lays the foundations for a different relationship between citizens and public administrations, reducing the physical barriers of access to public administration. With the decrees delegated, the Government will have to define the minimum level of quality of online services by ensuring that all citizens have Internet access to all public offices, from schools to ASL; redefine the public digital identity system aimed at allowing access to any service with a single PIN, universally accepted so that the citizen can authenticate himself only once with one of the managers of digital identity and use such authentication with any provider of online services, public and private, Italian and European Union. A real revolution. The problem of public management is dealt with in an organic way with new rules for access and exit. There is an intervention on the access to leadership by reaffirming the constitutional principle of the obligation of competition. The new managers of the public administrations will be the only ones to have to answer for the management and there will be only one role, no more bands; tasks of maximum three years renewable once. The contestability of the management is indispensable, like an ulterior element that is addressed - I try to conclude because the time is going to expire - with the law delegation is the age-old problem of the societies participated of the State, the Regions and the territorial authorities that, as confirmed also from the report Cottarelli, represents one of the most critical aspects on the financial and organizational side of the entire public administration. From this point of view, it is essential - and I have also tabled an amendment to this effect - to ensure that local public services are as competitive as possible, because this is an element that frees up resources, which gives opportunities for better service at a lower cost to citizens. It also courageously addresses the issue of the reorganization, as I said, of the system of local public services, and it is worth stressing the discipline on activities not subject to prior authorisation, which makes clear on all the activities that can start with a simple communication from the private and the enterprises, simplifying the life of the citizens, allowing, therefore, to free those resources and those energies of our system of enterprise that, despite the backwardness of the public administration, is competitive on all the international markets. In view of this reorganisation, there are other important rules for rationalizing and abolishing ministerial offices, with functions that overlap with those of the existing Authorities. I should like to conclude with a quotation from Professor Massimo Saverio Giannini, who in 1979 warned the Italian legislator to intervene, recalling that there are many causes, some even far away, which have helped to produce the present situation of serious dysfunction of the public administrations, taken overall, and to arouse for many of them anguished concerns of ungovernability. However, it is opportune at this moment that these causes should be dealt with, in order not to give in to the snare of disturbing the decision dispersing for side routes that could become recriminators, and above all almost always suspect that they are easy and free. Wisdom would require that the past be considered closed and only provide for the future. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u43	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u44	Mr President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to express in this House our deep disappointment at a measure that brings with it the dissolution of that State Forestry Corps, as you so well explained in your speech. However, I am also obliged to clarify some of the assessments that have been made in this House recently by my colleague, Mr Giovanardi, when, referring to the anthropization of our mountains in particular, it states that there is a problem between men and animals that must be resolved in favour of humans and not in favour of a balance and biodiversity that includes the most serene coexistence possible between men and animals. Well, those who live in the mountains know the real problems, which are only partly linked to the considerations of Senator Giovanardi, and know that they are largely linked to the fact that in recent years we have not been able to assure those small municipalities, which are the institutions organized in the mountains, the ability and the possibility to guarantee some services. In fact, in the policy of cutting transfers to local authorities, these are the municipalities that suffer the most, because, despite their financial virtuosity, they can no longer guarantee that level of services that in the past years has made life easier in their territories. However, I come immediately to the heart of the question: in our defence of the State Forestry Corps, there is also that of an idea of country and territory where the coexistence between men and animals is virtuous and fruitful for all. We often forget that, with the consumption of soil in our country and the exasperated anthropization, we have invaded the territory that was animals, not vice versa. From here often come the many polemics, such as those we have sadly recorded in the case of bears on the mountains in Trentino or wolves on the ones in Verona, but not only. I believe that the role of the State Forestry Corps can play one of its most important functions there, to help and grow the culture of coexistence between man and animal in a unique awareness of biodiversity that must be guaranteed to the territories. In Europe we host 30% of the animal species on the whole continent and 50% instead of the plant population. Perhaps we have more responsibility than others in preserving our territories and in supporting our economies - rural and mountain economies, which have enormous difficulties - with intelligent policies, which help those communities to maintain their role and their presence on those territories - whose abandonment is undoubtedly a serious risk - but according to a modern conscience of the balance between man and animal, which must find its new synthesis. It seems to me that we are increasingly abandoning old clichés that have seen the exploitation of the animal in favour of a modern culture of the use within the economic system also of the strength of the animals, for a mentality that is increasingly directed towards their respect. The indignation that we feel in the face of some phenomena that often come to the fore in the news, because they strike us with bloody images, says a lot: we have a sensitivity and attention to all this, but we have to find the right way and the right point of balance between the needs of the economy, of the communities and of the animals. I therefore hope that the defence and protection of the State Forestry Corps will help us even more in this, because I am of the opinion that that structure that the institutions have thought so many years ago must be strengthened and strengthened, not degraded and absorbed in a role perhaps only administrative, that would not help us in that path. Ascribe to the merit of Michela Vittoria Brambilla the ability to bring within the culture of the center-right respect and love for animals. I think that this is a widespread, widespread feeling among millions of citizens and voters, who, even on the basis of this aspect, probably form their opinion, their judgment and their vote. I therefore do not want to disrespect them. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u45	Senator Vaccari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u46	Mr President, I would just like to say a few words about the measure we are considering, first of all by thanking the rapporteur, Senator Pagliari, the 1st Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Minister Madia for the work of integrating and amending the text that was done during the examination in the Senate. What we are considering is an important measure for the country, because it concerns a fundamental part of the State, which has a direct relationship with citizens and businesses, through which we also measure the capacity of the State to meet the expectations of citizens and to provide essential services for everyday life. It is therefore a measure that delegates the Government to address decisive issues, which should be followed by Parliament, assessing the timing and content of the delegated decrees. The measure is intertwined with other recently adopted rules: I am thinking in particular of the one on environmental crimes, which the House approved a few days ago, introducing four new criminal offences against the environment. I therefore think that, on the text under consideration, particularly with regard to the revision and possible amalgamation of the State Forestry Corps to other police bodies, we must be very careful, because, when we are going to implement a regulatory framework such as the one recently modified, we have the need for our country to have an effective control system: on the one hand on the side of environmental police and on the other on the side of administrative controls, also linked to the system of environmental agencies, that the Commission territory, environment, environmental assets of the Senate is examining and reviewing, with a greater coordination at the head of the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA) and referring, on the territory, to the regional agencies for the environment. Without these two "legs" I think that prevention, as well as control and repression, would not work. Then, surely, we need a reorganization of the functions of the State Forestry Corps, but not its amalgamation and its degradation within other bodies. In many years of experience, the State Forestry Corps has accumulated a specialization, which has to do with environmental and agricultural policies and which refers to functions that I consider essential: I think of the control over poaching and forestry, the relationship and agreements in force with the Ministry of Agricultural Policy and the Ministry of the Environment and the work in place with many Regions. I therefore believe that the delegation contained in the measure is to be monitored and clarified better, also compared to the future delegated decrees. We need to build, in our country, an environmental police system much more effective than we have today, in order to be able to strike organized crime, to maintain the management of the 140 protected areas in the head of the State Forestry Corps and the more than 1,300 people dependent on them, who carry out an important activity, that is almost self-financed, just as it is almost self-financed the operation of the State Forestry Corps, clearly net of salaries. We are talking about a body that enjoys a very broad trust, especially in the mountainous areas, as other colleagues have said; in general more than 65% of citizens think that the State Forestry Corps is an important and fundamental reference. For this reason, together with other colleagues, I will present an agenda that I believe will serve to give a slightly more precise address, a little clearer to the Government for the definition of functions, its reorganization and above all the identification of a national system of environmental police that involves, of course, the competences of high specialization that the Body has been able to make available to our country, but also other pieces of administration that carry out similar functions: I think of the 2,800 provincial police units that, of course, can integrate and intertwine their activities and their competences; I think of the NOE of the Carabinieri and I think of other pieces of our system that, in a different organization, could also build a much more effective embankment against environmental crimes. The second consideration I want to make, if I have time left, concerns the articles of the measure that underline and identify the rotation of the managers and the renewal of the managerial staff of the public administration, making available to the political body a greater responsibility. Here: I believe that more attention is needed on this matter in the application of the 2011 anti-corruption law which identified the city secretary as a third party capable of carrying out the function of verification of acts, but also of overseeing the application of this rule. I believe that, from this point of view, the measure can better specify, with the delegated decrees, the role of anti-corruption that public administration must also play within the individual territories. That is why I believe that further clarification is also needed in this debate. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u47	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u50	ZANONI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, over the last few weeks ISIS has again multiplied its efforts in its vast and insane policy of terror, as demonstrated by the events at the National Museum of Bardo in Tunis, by the killings of local personnel and tourists, by the affiliation of Boko Haram and Al Quaeda to the organization of terror and brutality perpetrated in North Africa. The destruction of the archaeological heritage is added to the barbarism of children, women and men. They are the many and frightening faces of the same medal. About a month ago, after a speech in this House like today, focused on the Iraqi artistic and archaeological heritage, I drafted a question which many of my colleagues have joined and which should be answered by the Minister in the Foreign Commission. A brief update, however, is already required, because in these few weeks other unfortunate facts have occurred. Although the apocalyptic destruction of the sites of Nimrud, Khorsabad, Nineveh and Hatra by means of dynamite and bulldozers has been denied through satellite image analysis, considerable damage has been done and is about to be carried out in these centres by the caliphate. The last video in this horror gallery shows the destruction of architectural decorations and numerous statues on the site of Hatra, dating back to the second, third century after Christ. The militiamen of ISIS, under the pressure of a new iconoclasm, used steel bats as for the destruction done at the Mosul museum, to destroy shelves, worms, masks and statues that had been preserved for more than 1,500 years. Finally, stone statues and masks placed too high have been scarred by strokes of Kalashnikov so that nothing that can recall the ancient idols can resist in memory. UNESCO and the various world organizations scream indignant, through their communications, the pain of the whole world that is often forgotten. Question No 3-01751, tabled by more than fifty senators now more than two weeks ago, was already important then, but from week to week its value, unfortunately, is growing and the danger is that it will increase again in the coming weeks and months, following the terrorist interventions and the destruction of ISIS. In conclusion, I would like to ask the answer to this question, because it is increasingly necessary to respond to our questions and proposals, given the pressing demands and reflections that require us, alas, the speed of events and foreign policy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-424.ana.u51	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 10.01 p.m.
