ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u10	Mr Marcucci (PD). Madam President, today we commemorate Renato Altissimo, Member of the Italian Liberal Party from 1972 to 1976 and from 1979 to 1994, several times Minister... [[Comments of Senator Lezzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u11	Colleagues, I would ask you to remain silent, because one of our former colleagues is commemorating.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u12	Mr Marcucci (PD). ...disappeared on April 17th at the age of seventy-four. My personal memory dates back to 1989, when I chose to join the Liberal Party of which Altissimo was secretary. When I got to know him, he immediately struck me with his natural courtesy, far from formalism, and I was honored with the friendship he wanted to grant me. With him I shared the difficult two years 1992-1994 from the benches of the Chamber and, precisely in such complicated fringes, I was able to observe and admire the gifts of lucidity and foresight with which he read the political framework in profound transformation, despite the bitterness of seeing the small Liberal Party dragged into the shipwreck of the pentaparty and the system that we remember with the name of the first Republic. Renato Altissimo's entire political journey was an adventure of freedom. Although the chronicles of the time focused more willingly on other aspects, the Highest was a courageous and innovative politician, from his first moves as leader of the Young entrepreneurs of Confindustria and throughout the period that saw him holding positions of party and government. Neither did his physical courage. A courage that took him to Afghanistan on a memorable journey alongside the fighters against the Soviet occupier and that saw him in Tel Aviv besieged by the Scuds of Saddam Hussein, alongside the Israeli population, convinced that only in this way could one witness the common yearning for freedom that unites individuals and peoples, universal value that crosses the ages and continents. As a Member, as Party Secretary and Minister, he always implored his action to a dynamic vision of society, based on the indispensable value of freedom and on the responsibility of individual choices, at a time when the market economy appeared to be forced by excessive constraints, in which the state approach seemed inexorably to prevail over private initiative. It is not by chance, therefore, that the Liberal Party led by Altissimo was characterized by the choice to propose a broad framework of privatisations and showed a propensity for a decidedly marked institutional change, in spite of a calm image and moderation. Since the end of the 1980s, the Highest was genuinely convinced of the need for a thorough revision of the institutional system. He looked with interest at the proposals for change in the presidential sense put forward by Mr Craxi, but, above all, he was at the side of President Cossiga, to whom he united a deep human and cultural harmony, in supporting the prospect of introducing the semi-presidency system on the French model. The story of Tangentopoli struck him, albeit marginally, inducing him to withdraw from active politics, to which he had been confronted only in recent years, without ever giving up on professing himself liberal and living coherently with the ideal of freedom that had guided him in political life. In Renato Altissimo we must recognize the commitment of an entrepreneur in politics, with work, competence and determination. I am always committed to freedom and always guided by doubt, never accepting ideologies and dogmas so fashionable at the time. To family and friends, a thought of mourning. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), FI-PdL XVII and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u15	COMPANIES (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, our group's senators also support the expressions used by Senator Marcucci and are grateful to him and the Presidency for allowing this opportunity of remembrance. Renato Altissimo had approached public life in the mid-sixties. His was a small group of friends from Turin, formed around the Centro Einaudi: there were Valerio Zanone, Giuliano Urbani, Piero Ostellino and, precisely, Renato Altissimo. More than towards politics, Renato seemed projected towards entrepreneurship. He marked himself in the late 1960s as a young vice president of Confindustria. He was already a capable liberal entrepreneur, suffering from the apparatuses and interests of that world and had developed his own reformist proposal, which would have passed to history, or in any case to the chronicle, such as the "Pirelli report." He didn't want to go so far as "young Turkish" as to represent a useful ideal and political reference. On his documents, on his initiatives, on his programs were formed characters like Antonio D'Amato (who thirty years later would be president of Confindustria) or entrepreneurs like Silvio Berlusconi, who on Sunday remembered him with noble words, and the same Faithful Confalonieri. Years later, when Renato's great friend, Francesco Cossiga, spoke of the world of Confindustria as a singular Italian trenches of real socialism, in Renato this seemed to be an exaggerated, paradoxical, pickaxer, but still reformist language. Without media clamor, with serious arguments, Renato had never made discounts on real socialism, neither of prudence, nor of calculation. To liberal Italy he loved even more than the image of himself and his party. The story of the Liberal Party, in the history of Italy, was very difficult. Benedetto Croce, who had written a large part of the statute - which in an article reserved the role of Honorary President for the same Cross - had theorized for this party a dual identity: on the one hand party between the parties and, on the other side, an ethical-civil party of Italian democracy. Of course, this dual identity would have troubled several times the days of the party secretaries. From here, from Croce onwards, in every generation, the idea of peers, many times friends of Renato, who have sought hospitality in different houses (lamalfiane, panels, berlusconian). The Liberal Party was, instead, for Renato an exclusive love, indispensable, proud, so much so that in the last twenty years, when the PLI was no longer there, passing through Via Frattina became almost a torment for him. On his way of understanding politics there is an episode that explains a lot. We were in the summer of 1979 and President Pertini had given Bettino Craxi, perhaps as a provocation, the task of forming the new government. Christian Democrats and Republicans, then inconsolable widowers of the national solidarity of the period 1976-1979, judged that mandate useless and provocative and did not even want to meet Craxi with their parliamentary delegation. The Liberals, on the other hand, a small party, but with a large delegation, went to the President-in-Office of the Council in charge. Craxi presented them with a programme (Atlanticism in foreign policy, rigour in economic and financial policy, guaranteeing citizens against the corporatism of the judiciary) designed specifically to be appreciated by the liberals. So much so that, at some point, while Craxi was still talking, we heard Malagodi's voice interrupting Craxi in these terms: "Craxi, we have been waiting for you for this appointment for almost 100 years." And Craxi, perplexed: "But who? But what does that mean? And Malagodi: "Like who? What does that mean? Listening to you, I remembered Giolitti, my father Olindo Malagodi, myself, the history of Italy. In those days the Craxi government didn't do it. But Altissimo, with that discreet and detached way he had in political life, chose to immediately tell the episode to Arnaldo Forlani, and in 1983 it would be realized, and it would last for a long time, the Craxi-Forlani Government. Obviously there is no mechanical cause-to-effect ratio. However, it is important to note that Renato would never have missed how, how much and why the meeting and understanding between socialists and liberals was a great affirmation of democracy. Where the generations of Giolitti and Turati first, those of Malagodi and Saragat then, had failed, the Altissimo and Craxi proved to be equal to their responsibilities. Certainly, in the history of Italy, that of the great liberal personalities is a matter of great and true history of Europe. Renato knew this, and for himself he never took care to secure a role as a protagonist. In his world and in his own way, however, he was never a minor character. Remembering him as a winner, buried in the ruins of Tangentopolis, is unjust, is insulting and misleading. Few like him can boast that they have taught their daughters, their own party, to so many of us that life is, as Benedict Cross said, more inevitable than death, and therefore that life must be beautiful by force. Goodbye, Renato, thank you! [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC), PD, FI-PdL XVII and GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI, IdV, VGF) and Senator Buemi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u18	Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, on 17 April a distinguished fellow citizen of mine, Renato Altissimo, was a precursor of the liberal idea to the Government. He was a man of enterprise lent to politics, a man of doing, attentive and aware of the reasons for freedom in economics; successful industrial, passed to political life through civil passion and emblem of a typical lordship and distinction of the gentleman of liberal tradition, who returned to do business when he finished the pentaparty season, even after having had positions of power, who did not interest him as such. We also remember him for his positions at the top of the association of industrialists as vice president of Confindustria. The issues we are talking about today, the reform of institutions, guarantees, a lower weight of the state, a fairer tax burden were addressed more than thirty years ago by that authentic liberal who was Renato Altissimo. Not only did he carry forward the great liberal ideas in that small party of which he was secretary for many years, but he assumed positions of government at the Department of Health for two terms and then to the industry. Even with the weight of the small Liberal Party within such a composite government coalition, his ideas were to the Government, his attention to freedom brought him in 1986 to solidarity, going at great risk to Afghanistan, with a people fighting against the Soviet invasion, drawing the attention of the Italian public to that tragedy of a people so far away. As in 1989, when the Ceausescu regime fell, it was at the head of the first Western delegation to go to Bucharest, after the revolution, to solidarity with the Romanians who had fought for freedom, or in 1991, when Saddam Hussein launched his Scud missiles against Israel, ran to solidarity against the attacks on the citizens of Israel, who had caused many victims among the civilian population. Few know this, but President Cossiga, when he appointed Senator Giovanni Agnelli for life, wanted it to be Renato Altissimo to tell him the choice, because that seat should have been Giovanni Malagodi, who, however, missed shortly before. As with Malagodi, liberal ideas rose high with the Most High and for this reason, at the moment when he left us, we remained of him a great legacy of values and ideals: liberalism, never become a commonplace, is his most important teaching and for this reason we will always remember him with gratitude. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Naccarato. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u21	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the North League also supports the memory of the figure of Renato Altissimo a few days after his death here in Rome. Son of the Venetian land, he was born in 1940 in Portogruaro, in the province of Venice, from a family of entrepreneurs who owned a factory in Piedmont and active Moncalieri, part of the FIAT pipeline. For this reason he studied in Turin, graduating in political science. He was president of the Young Entrepreneurs and then also vice president of Confindustria, before undertaking the long career as protagonist of the first Republic. In fact, he was the leading actor of the pentaparty who dominated the 1980s of Italian politics, in which he moved from leading exponent of the Italian Liberal Party, of which he was secretary from the 1986 congress to his resignation in 1993. Deputy in five legislatures, he led various ministries: that of health in the Cossiga Government I and in the Spadolini Governments I and II and in the Fanfani Government V; then he was also Minister of Industry in the Craxi Government, between 1983 and 1986. In 1993 he was also involved in the storms of Tangentopoli. Such events alienated him from politics, as happened then to many important representatives of other parties, but never extinguished its liberal spirit. Even last year, in fact, with renewed energies, he founded together with Carlo Scognamiglio and Alfredo Biondi the movement "I Liberali". He was certainly a politically significant personality, an intelligent and educated man and certainly a brilliant mind. The Parliamentary Group of the North League therefore expresses sentiments of condolence to its members and to those who were friends in this House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u24	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). Madam President, we wish in turn to associate ourselves with the memory that Renato Altissimo has summoned my previous colleagues, without retracing the stages, which have already been well understood by Senator Marcucci, Senator Compagna and Senator Rizzotti, his landowner. I just want to remind this House that Renato Altissimo was a political entrepreneur, but he was honored. Remember that, if we have an efficient health system, which is among the best in the world rankings, we owe it to him above all. After Mariotti, in fact, he was one of the greatest Health and Health Ministers we had. If many diseases have been eradicated by prevention, we owe it to him. The common people, who go to hospitals and our clinics, do not know - because they wanted to cancel it - that Altissimo allowed this. Similarly, many do not know the miracle that he did, as Minister of Industry, when he was President of the Council Bettino Craxi, from 4 August 1983 to 1 August 1986, and do not know the importance of this man in that Ministry for Recovery and Economic Boom, which led us to be the fifth economic power in the world, with a GDP of 5%. This was the Highest: that it was then wanted to erase it from the political scene with an international media-judicial coup, because impoverishing Italy meant impoverishing all Italians, then it makes it go back to the fact that that condemnation was unjust, because it hit a man who worked for the country and a man of doing impressed politics like Berlusconi, as my colleague Rizzotti said earlier. He was a liberal; liberal ideas are those that allowed post-war development (along with socialists, republicans, Christian Democrats and Social Democrats) and that allowed Italy to be truly an economic power with unemployment towards zero and not towards two-digit numbers. It was this Most High, and from this point of view we must remember it. I would like to stress that the fact that today a Group was present at his commemoration cannot but honour him, because that Group handed him over to history: he compared him to Christ, who was also unjustly condemned; while, however, this gesture was chronicled, the content of the idea and action of the Most High is handed over to history. Obviously, as well as addressing the family members and presenting the condolences of my Group, but also of the reformist and socialist culture, which I have always represented, I invite him, since in the Reformist Hyperuranium he will now find himself thanking and embracing all the reformists, who are waiting for him and who have preceded him (from Andreotti, to Moro, La Malfa, Pertini), above all, to give a very strong hug to Bettino Craxi, who we really miss: the socialists, Italy and Italians.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u25	The Presidency joins the words of condolence expressed by my fellow Members and invites the House to observe a minute's silence and recollection. [[The President stands up and with you the whole House, who observes a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u26	Colleagues, we should now move on to the follow-up to the discussion of the draft law delegation of public administration reform. However, the Budget Commission has not yet delivered its opinions on the articles which we have not examined, starting with Article 7. At this point, in the hope that the opinions will be ready for the afternoon and given that in any case we should suspend the debate on this bill at 10.30 a.m., we can at this point suspend the sitting until that time pending the arrival of the President of the Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u29	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, please remain with the documents which, at the beginning of the sitting, I asked you to verify the quorum. Alas, in this House we continue with the bad practice of voting for absent colleagues or of putting balls in place of colleagues who are elsewhere. I would point out to you that this morning the House was in a quorum only because of the presence of three senators; one of them was not present. This is the 067 station in the PD counters, which corresponds to my colleague Cociancich. It is up to you to take the necessary steps. [[Live Senator Cociancich's Comments]] CARDINALI (PD). He was already here!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u30	Senator Santangelo, we're going to do the proper checks and, in case, we're going to give Senator Cociancich the floor for a personal matter... SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, this is once again my case. Senator Cociancich has only appeared now, at this moment. [[Lively comments from the PD Group]] I told you we'll have the necessary checks. [[Senator Cociancich heads towards the benches of the M5S Group, showing a pair of glasses to Senator Santangelo.]] No, be careful, we don't accept the clashes. In any case, Senator Santangelo, Senator Cociancich's possible missing vote would not have altered the outcome of the verification. Having said that, we will check it properly. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). It's not a party. The Senate is serious. It's the Senate! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is Personal action is taken at the end of the sitting. Let's suspend the session. (The sitting was suspended at 10:01 a.m. and resumed at 10:35 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u31	We greet and welcome Mr Simon Burton, Reading Clerk of the House of Lords, who is attending our work today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u32	The next item is: "Communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the extraordinary European Council of 23 April 2015 and subsequent discussion" I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Dr Renzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u33	Madam President, kind senators, kind senators, tomorrow afternoon's meeting in Brussels has the characteristics of extraordinaryness, because the appointment of the European Council was strongly desired by our country - and not only by our country - to try to give an organic, strategic response and I would like to say even cultural to what is happening, it has happened and we fear that it will still happen in the waters of the Mediterranean. It is very simple, in these cases, to prepare emotional responses, but they are reactions, they are not answers. It is important to maintain a level of humanity: continuing to say that those dead are numbers sounds deeply unfair. Each of those dead is not a number: it's a story, it's a family, it's a life, it's a mother who won't see her son come back, it's a child who will never know his father. Those dead are not numbers to be quoted at random and to be fed to the political debate or the talk show fight: they are stories of women and men who question our conscience. And, however, the emotional attitude of reaction cannot be enough. Nor can a detailed and detailed technical list of decisions to be taken or commitments to be claimed be sufficient. The European Council is not a list of expenditure and neither is the final document of the European Council. I believe it is the time of politics and, from this point of view, I think it is important that a moment of parliamentary debate has been called for before the extraordinary summit, even if it is not provided for in the regulations, or in any case not regulated precisely by them. I would like to interpret today's debate as an opportunity to ask you for help in making our debate an oasis of confrontation, dialogue and deepening on a subject which, too often, is fed up with ideological confrontation. If we want to live up to the history of our country, its civilization and its values, perhaps this is an opportunity to try to deal politically - from the political point of view with the capital - with the theme we are discussing. And then we have to live up to this great challenge, because this time the world hasn't pretended anything, as it has all too often happened in the past. This time, the world has not turned its eyes to the other side, indeed the tragedy has even obscured other tragic dynamics that were being consumed in the same region. The fact that, in the same hours as the shipwreck, 28 of our African brothers were beheaded on the coast of Libya got little more than a piercing, unlike the past. Why? Because, like it or not, politics is often succubated by the ways in which communication tells it and, nevertheless, we must not give in to a simplistic culture, which wants to reduce to banality and mediocrity every kind of confrontation and dynamics. Trying to make clear the answers we owe to the international community, to our fellow citizens and to the people who try the road to the sea does not mean choosing the direction of simplification or simplism. On the contrary, it means making an articulated elaboration with answers, then, punctual and concrete. That, in my opinion, is the task of politics. It is a parliamentary experience like this, in which the right, dignity and nobility are being restored to political commitment, after a double decade in which it was thought, in the debate of newspapers and commentators, that the time of politics had ended and the time had come for its replacement, is - I believe - a broad challenge. But, in order to give space to politics, it is necessary for each of us to start from the following observation: Libya's problem is not only Libya. Libya's problem is not just the historical reading of what happened. The problem of Libya is, first of all, the extraordinary pressure that comes from all the heart of Africa, and partly from the countries of the Middle East, from a reality deprived, at this moment, of a stable and united Government, and it goes to force the natural borders to try not to simply change and to move on, but to seek life. When an aspiring migrant, perhaps waiting for a ship - because this seems to have happened - sees that those who are next to him are caught and beheaded, do you think that a commercial or a statement on talk shows can suffice to stop those who flee from criminals and from those who kill in that way? Do you think that a simple discussion of Italian politics can suffice to try to stop the anxiety of life that is in the heart and in the eyes of those people? It is obvious that this is not the case. And then we must start from the observation that Africa cannot be relegated to a B-series problem in the debate of the international community. I find it very interesting that, during this period, from the United States (I was at the White House last Friday) to the smallest country in Europe, Malta - the smallest country but with a great heart, which had the courage to collaborate very seriously, even overcoming some divisions of the past, along with us and our people and institutions - all said the need to consider the issue of humanitarian emergency in this area as a priority. Well, that's a step forward. What is Italy's role? First of all, Italy's role is about the emergency. I would like us to express our gratitude to the people who dress a uniform, to the women and men of the Coast Guard, the Finance Guard, the Navy, the police forces and the police, to all those who, saving a life - as the Talmud says - have saved a whole world. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, M5S, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF) and Mixed.]] I would like us to express our gratitude to the mayors who are actually welcoming women and men who are often emerging, risking unpopularity with their constitutionality, with their electoral base. I would like us to express our gratitude to those who are voluntary and voluntary, and to the employees and employees who work at the reception centres. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, M5S, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF) and Mixed.]] There are, in some cases, squalid events to be fought and corrupting events to be eradicated mercilessly. And we are the first to say that there must be no possible mitigation against the damage that is produced by those who steal on the expenses and costs of those centers. But there are hundreds and thousands of women and men for good, girls and boys who serve in those structures with a clear goal: to love their work and the people they meet. To all of them goes our thanks and thanks to Italy. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF) and Mixed.]] We do not accept that the right criticism of those who have set up a corruptive system can drag personal commitment with them. But this is not enough because, if you believe that the role of Italy is only that of the emergency, let's face it: the sea is the least safe place to save people. We cannot continue to think that our task is simply to collect bodies and turn the Mediterranean into a cemetery. To avoid misunderstandings, even in these moments when hundreds of thousands of people are saved from our country, over the last year, which started with Operation Mare nostrum, we collected 499 bodies at sea and, according to data from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), we had something like 3,500 estimated deaths. These are numbers that give the creeps, but they have characterized 2014, and not decades ago or the last days. It is therefore clear that the sea is not the place where we can save and operate. We must act, of course, in an emergency, but we must have a broader strategy. From this point of view, Italy - let me say this, because I would like to acknowledge this to the action not of the Government but of Parliament - has put Africa at the centre since the first day of action of the Commission. The first mission we made abroad took place in Tunisia. We opened the European semester, after having said it in Strasbourg in the inaugural speech, with the joy of the liberation of Meriam, a girl who gave birth in chains because of her faith and that Italy has gone to resume and to whom she has given back her freedom. We have invested a great deal in the idea of foreign policy, even when there was a bit of a laugh or a bit of a grumble, because we think that if Europe wants to be something more than a catalogue of bureaucracy it must have politics at the heart of the foreign policy debate. That is why we strongly called for a new departure on European foreign policy, and of course we have a lot to do. The first results, from the agreement with Iran to the challenges ahead, show that a great deal is still to be done. But there is a unity between the fact that, for the first time, a President of the Council has descended under the Sahara, on an international mission, and the strategy of international policy and economic development of our country. Going to bring investment to that part of the world, which is, by the way, growing with very interesting percentages, is the first possible answer that politics can give. And it is clear that this cannot be said in the course of a television debate. The starting point is the clarity of the strategy. Italy is not made of boots simply for maps: it is of course, physiologically and culturally a bridge between Europe and Africa. And when we remember that expression of La Pira, which I mentioned once, to say that the Mediterranean is the continuation of Lake Tiberias, we refer to a series of cultural, spiritual and human values that characterize centuries of juridical and cultural civilization of our country. And I feel all this responsibility. As there is in the one who goes to save a person and gives birth (in the message of the end of the year President Napolitano expressly recalled a woman of the Navy who allowed a migrant just collected by a shipwreck, to be able to give birth and give life a person, saving at the same time two existences) the typical spirit of our culture, there must also be in a reasoning that is wider than what we have done to date. That is why Europe is needed, and that is why the Europe we call for action must intervene in Niger, Sudan, south of Libya, through cooperation with the United Nations. I very much appreciated the collaboration offered by Secretary General Ban Ki-moon also during yesterday's call (we will have a further appointment next week), but it must also be able to increase the presence at sea, and not only on Operation Triton, but also on that Poseidon, because - attention - from Syria and Iraq at this moment are coming back to grow the departures and photographic images that you have seen of the shipwrecks that desperately try to reach the shore arrive from Rhodes. Triton, Poseidon, emergency, but we also need a strategy on Africa, an economic, cultural and civil strategy; a strategy like the one I always call for, because it is the emblem of a part of Italian cooperation, guided by the experience of the Community of Sant'Egidio in the nineties: the operation in Mozambique. Today, after twenty years, Mozambique is moving towards a path of development and freedom. It is one of the most interesting and richest countries in Africa thanks to many Italian women and men who have wagered and invested in a path that, from cooperation, has led to democratic consolidation. Alongside this work, however, there must be the awareness that we are fighting a war against human traffickers. There is no other experience in history of buying human flesh - this is what it is - similar to what we are living, if not dating back to the experience of slavery. Let's call things by their names. What happened in West Africa in recent centuries is happening, in a naturally different way, in the 21st century, and we have seen it through the intercepts published these days and the photos of our predators taking images on the Libyan coast. This is called slavery, and destroying such a form of human trafficking is a priority not only for a necessary matter of national security, not only for a matter of sacrosanct respect for international regulations, but for a matter of human dignity. We cannot accept living as strangers to ourselves. If we are Italy, that is that land that has so much to learn but also something to teach in terms of values of civilization, culture and also of international presence, we are up to date. It is clear that this will be essential, alongside our commitment, to an awareness on the part of the European Union that we imagine on four fronts. We are working on this for the final text of tomorrow's work: to strengthen the operations of the European Union as we have already said; to combat the traffickers of men; to discourage people to leave their land, through an investment in the countries of origin and knowing that those people who leave Libya very often are not Libyan - there is an international of suffering and pain, which sees the Tunisian and Syrian boatboat riding a boat taken from Egypt, started from Libya, with so many women and men coming from the Horn of Africa or from realities of suffering and pain - and, finally, to strengthen solidarity between Member States also with a different strategy both in the reception - as in point 6 of the document that Commissioner Avramopoulos has put to the attention of the meeting of the Ministers of the Interior and Foreign Affairs - that in the enlargement of the principles underlying the Dublin Convention. These are the four strategies on which we will work for the document. In the background is the fact that, until Libya is stable, we will always have an open problem in front of us. This is an objective fact. I believe that a stable Libya now necessarily passes through an agreement between the tribes and the various factions. It is unthinkable to imagine from above forcing Libya to regain a situation of stability. I believe, however, that this phase we are experiencing can finally give Europe a role. Finally, it can allow Europe to call itself to its own responsibility. Europe is not just a set of rules and rules, and we have already said so. European foreign policy is not only the sacred Eastern Partnership on which we work and intend to work. Today's task, in the time we are experiencing increasing challenges and difficulties, is to bring Europe to make a big bet on the Mediterranean as the soul and heart of its identity. Here, let me get there to finish. I find, paradoxically, that there is more awareness, sometimes, on the part of terrorists of the symbolic and cultural value of what are the ideals of Europe than on our part. Forgive me this provocation. But if you look at what has happened in recent months in terms of attacks, you will see that a museum in Tunis and a university have been hit and 148 children have lost their lives in Kenya; the editorial staff of a newspaper in France and, just a few weeks earlier, an international school in Peshawar, Pakistan have been hit. Why? The strategy is clear: to kill as many people as possible, when it is not possible to force those same people to live without an identity that is fairy of values, culture, ideals, human capital and education. If the bet is on this ground, the role of Italy is certainly to intervene at sea, and we are doing so; it is to be ready to do everything, together with the European Union and the United Nations, to stop human trafficking, as we are doing and will do even more (there are 1,002 people we have arrested, between the hullers and those we imagine as accomplices of the criminal organization). Italy's role is surely to make a long-term bet on Africa, which does not forget anything, like the girls still in the hands of Boko Haram in Nigeria, over which too often emotion has made us forget that they are still there after a year or more of year, and that should move us to live suffering: girls of twelve years forced and sold, or kidnapped and then sold. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF) and Mixed.]] But Italy's role is not just that. The role of Italy - and I have really finished - is to succeed in making an extra step, and it is a step of strategy within Europe and in the global world of beacon of civilization, confrontation and ideals. That is why I believe it is important that, apart from the different opinions on the past, the intervention in Libya and the strategies of the Government, there may be a large majority and, if possible, much more than that of the Government, in the face of such a passage. In other countries, when situations of difficulty are experienced, one tries to enhance what unites and overcomes the demagogic and populist impetus that someone thinks can bring votes. But since we have never been afraid to confront each other at the electoral level, we know that votes are taken by focusing on reasonableness and responsibility. SANTANGELO (M5S). No more votes! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. What I think is crucial is that we should not lack the answers - I hope they are broad, but they must not be lacking - of the European Council, tomorrow, and of Parliament, today. I mentioned it in the House, and I do it here, too, a poem, a love poem. This may sound weird. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Stop! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. And it may seem strange to quote a love poem when it comes to a terrible affair, death. It's a poem by a Spanish poet who says: The air is almost irrespirable now, because you don't answer me: you know well that what I breathe are your answers. And now I suffocate. Delete for a moment the part linked to the dynamics of the relationship between two people who love each other. Put a boy locked in the hold of that ship and think of how he is suffocated by the lack of answers from an international community that, in recent years, has thought that Africa was not a priority, that Libya was not a priority. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] Think about it...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u34	Colleagues, silence. Let the President-in-Office speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u35	Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. Think about it... [[Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u36	You'll have a chance to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u37	Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. Think of how much love there is in Italian women and men, who have been accused, even in these hours,. They are right and left women and men, up and down, who are risking and demonstrating self-denial and courage in saving the lives of people who, otherwise, would suffocate and drown in the sea. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Mixed]] Imagine if it's not time to finally leave the demagogy aside for once and go back to being human, at least in these moments. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE and Mixed Groups. Comments from the M5S Group.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). You go! Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Shame!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u38	I note that any motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u39	Mr President, I shall try not to be demagogic or populist, but to come straight to the political point. I believe that, unlike other international crises, not only the prestige of Rome and its economic exposition are at stake here, but also the spread of anarchy, as evidenced by the recent tragedy of the 700 dead migrants, which represents a direct threat to national security. The Libyan problem is not only humanitarian and it is not only immigration: it is certainly a strategic and political problem and could also concern the external security of Europe as a whole. As far as international policy is concerned, we must admit a neo-colonialist character taken on by the recent wars waged by the United States and NATO in the Middle East. Then there is a question. Is there a political force in the West that can counter this wretched drift, which already sows death and destruction, but which also presents all the characters for the sudden flare up of a violent confrontation of larger dimensions? The proposed solutions all presuppose that there is a Libyan Government to deal with, but actually the Libyan Government is not there, it does not exist. Therefore, negotiations between the various Libyan parties, led by the UN Special Envoy Bernardino Leon, continue. But the probability of giving life to a government of national unity is very small. Those existing in Tobruk and Tripoli seem to have no urgency or interest in agreeing: they both think they can win. Perhaps only a complete embargo, also extended to foodstuffs that Libya imports for almost all its needs, could convince them to conclude an agreement and force them to accept international intervention. The difficulty of reaching an understanding between the various Libyan factions also stems from the fact that...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u40	You have to finish, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u41	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-MovX). I started three minutes later. The difficulty of reaching an agreement between the various Libyan factions also stems from the fact that the international community has exported its conflicts to Libya. Egypt and the Emirates, supported by Saudi Arabia, support Tobruk. Turkey and Qatar support Tripoli and Misrata. The priorities are also different within the European Union: France supports Egypt and perhaps is not opposed to the division of Libya; Italy, on the other hand, is strongly interested in maintaining the unity of the country, in order to prevent it falling into the hands of organised crime, especially groups that practice the trade of human beings. It's slave trade, as you called it, Mr. President. The countries of Central and Eastern Europe, on the other hand, wash their hands... You have to finish. ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-MovX). ...even though they formally support the UN envoy's attempts to reach a government of national unity. In my opinion, tomorrow's meeting must be especially useful in finding a "Plan B," which still does not exist, in order to solve the problem fundamentally at the level of Libya. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Bencini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u43	Madam President, Mr Renzi's speech certainly gives us a sense of a good rhetorical capacity, and we acknowledge that. However, he must also realise that this is not the secretariat of the PD: This is the Senate, and there is a speech here in front of consenting people, but also in front of dissenting people. We're not just here to watch a show, having paid for the ticket. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, allow us to note a significant amount of hypocrisy in that it has just been said by you, starting also from a very simple point of view. Why are we here today talking about this subject? Because one fact happened: 700 people ended up at the bottom of the Mediterranean. Sure - live God! - because 700 people who die in one shot certainly do much more news and much more sensation than the deaths of 100 people, repeated seven times, or the deaths of seven people, repeated a hundred times. Mr Renzi, you yourself had to remember in your speech that 3,500 people died last year and I recall that last year the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union was also held. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni]] Then we ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and we ask ourselves: does it only come to these conclusions now? The Group of the North League has repeatedly tabled resolutions and motions, one of which was very precise in June last year, which contained exactly the same proposals that the Government is going to bring to Europe: naval blockade, blockade of flows on the Libyan shores and provide assistance there, to prevent the hullers from feeding on human trafficking. When the North League said so, it was not good: now, after the striking fact, the government arrives and ‐ alive God! ‐ Perhaps a more rational path will begin. But let us ask you another question, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. But during the European Semester, what were you thinking? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Simeoni]] Again, what were you thinking? If this was to be one of the priorities of the Government, why was it not during the European Semester of the Italian Presidency? In 2014 3,500 people died: did 700 more people need to go deeper to get there? Of course you didn't feed hope on those wretched people who are trying to cross the Mediterranean, put on boats by slavers. With what you have done, however, by neglecting the problem in the European Semester and conveying the idea that justice is bland on this side of the Mediterranean, you have fueled the certainty in the hullers that we can be enriched with this trafficking of human beings with impunity. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Simeoni]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have the courtesy of telling the Senate how many of the thousand boatmen arrested are actually in the prison patriae. They are only 10 percent: the rest were confused or freed and returned to do their job. That's what you have to say and what we would like the government to see active about. You have decriminalised a number of crimes, such as theft: now we ask you to present a bill in Parliament that contains very strong sanctions for the hullers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Simeoni]] A sentence of up to twelve years is already foreseen today: bring it to twenty-four, give them life! We're here to vote on bills of this kind, but they're not coming! Instead, let us listen to the rhetoric of the President of the Council of Ministers, who tells us: We will now be active in Europe, we will solve the problems, we will beat our fists in Europe. Then I ask myself, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and I ask the senators: what price did our country pay to make Mr Mogherini, the European Foreign Minister, who disappeared from the face of European foreign policy? We let the French and the Germans do what they wanted in the Libyan field. There destabilization is not born from a system that has imploded, but from a system that has been imploded. The European foreign policy does not exist: what does your representative do, what you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, wanted there? He simply looks, intervenes when you call him, but he is not even heard at European level, given the political weight of this country, which you have the ambition to represent, in a very childish way, I would say. Mr President, once in a while we also look at what goes on the net, like the bad figure you did with the European Heads of State when you waited to take some photographs: and now you come to tell us that you want to be credible in Europe? Not to mention the scene we are witnessing, with the usual soq in which the President-in-Office of the Council is not even allowed to listen between kissers and kissers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I repeat that this is not the secretariat of the PD, but it is still the Senate of the Republic, as long as it is, and in here there are people who have the ambition and the expectation to aspire to represent the problems of the citizens. Like we said, you're irresponsible. We asked and invited you, through several motions, also to amend the Dublin agreements, because the international political conditions that then led the Government to sign them were different: modify them and oblige all European countries to be aware and active in this action. There is no need for the Minister of the Interior to say that we must bomb the boats; it is sufficient that they do not leave the Libyan coast. Once again, I remind you that you are the President of the Council of Ministers, not the mayor of a small town in the Province surrounded by a junta of shammanates. [[Applause from Senator Simeoni]] : When they open their mouths, their ministers must at least be aware of what they are saying. His Minister of the Interior who now comes to say in the newspapers "Bombardiamo i barconi" is the same that in recent days he has issued a circular from the Ministry of the Interior to invite the prefects to proceed to requisitions of real estate and houses of the Italians to put us underground, because you no longer know where to store them [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Simeoni.]] This is the consistency of your Government, which comes in here to applaud the mayors and those who today commit their forces - the sailors and the men of the Navy - forgetting, however, both the maròs in India and the mayors and sending the contingents of illegals scattered here and there on the territory without even having a coordination with our local administrators. This - let us say it once again - is hypocrisy: enough with this attitude. You too, Madam Vice President of the Senate, please stop this kissing ritual: I repeat, we have the right to be heard, not to see these scenes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u44	Finish your surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u45	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). It is not a question of concluding the speech, Madam President, but of pretending to be heard, because we represent the citizens here! PRESIDENT. - The debate is Proceed, Senator Candiani: the President of the Council is able to listen. [[Protests from LN-Aut and M5S groups.]] I beg the senators not to bother the President of the Council. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). And do not look for provocations, Mr President-in-Office, coming here to read us poems, because the situation we are facing is serious and needs attention, not from today, but from yesterday, as the North League has been saying for a long time. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, be responsible and do the only thing that the Government must do: immediately block any flow of illegal immigrants to this country; stop them on the Libyan coast and go and act on the Libyan coasts to stop the boatmen. This is what the North League has long demanded, out of respect for the Italian citizens and these desperate ones who are used as meat for slaughter, simply to make money from the scafisti. And you - I remind you - have an attitude in keeping with the context in which you find yourself and certainly with the role you play, which is not the extravagant one of this moment. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u46	We greet and welcome the students of the secondary school of the first degree "Giovanni Bonifacio" of Rovigo, who are visiting the Senate. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u47	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u48	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we welcome your appeal, which has been heartfelt: at such an important moment, the unity and efforts of Italy and the Italians must go in one direction. However, it will allow me to give you a contribution, which does not want to be a criticism: in the debate we must try, on the part of all the groups, to bring our idea so that we must try to help you to claim the role of Italy in Europe and especially in the Mediterranean. [[Senator Falanga's comments.]] I do, however, have a slightly different reading, Mr President. I don't think those who try to come to Italy with boats are desperate. They're people who pay the hullers up to $5,000. So, they're not desperate at all. I think that behind it there is a larger and wider design, which is the design that aims, in times of crisis in Italy, to destabilize it; and I think that there is a certain international conspiracy. In the historical courses and resorts, already in the period 1992-1994, the period of Tangentopoli, there was a strong immigration in Italy, which always came from the Mediterranean, but from the countries of the eastern shore. Now, instead, immigrants come from the South. Therefore, destabilizing is a matter of international leadership. It is convenient for certain countries to eliminate Italy's presence from Libya and North Africa and to replace it: perhaps from Egypt, perhaps Saudi Arabia, but above all from Turkey; or, again, from England or France. I therefore believe that there is an international plan which seeks to put Italy in difficulty. You rightly say that tomorrow in Europe you will have to make a big voice and beat your fists, because this is a European problem. We wish her every success, because we want her to succeed and because I do not believe that the projects of Germany, France and England are ours. To them, seeing Italy in difficulty obviously can only please them. Our capacity and quality, in a climate of tranquillity, put foreign economies and powers in difficulty. I therefore give more of a reading in terms of international interests so that this can happen, even though these men and women are looking for a better world that is more than desperate for them. The desperate, in fact, Mr President, remain on the ground. Those who do not have the daily bread with which to feed, in fact, do not have the opportunity to pay these scafisti. We believe, therefore, that there is an international plan to encourage these hullers, so that Italy may be put in trouble. Paradoxically, Mr President, national instability is the fortune of these bounty hunters, as you have called them, who have absolutely nothing as human. Having a national unity, much more than ever in foreign policy, is important. You'll see I'm wearing a carnation. I remember the time when a socialist like me and (I think I can say now) like you, Mr President, that is Bettino Craxi, of authority in the international field had. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] And no one at that time would have been allowed to put into crisis an international authority and prestige that had come to him from Sigonella and, even earlier, from the policy of dialogue with the Arab world and the Palestinian world. Happy birthday, Mr President, in order to prevent those whom you have called desperate from coming to the West and Italy from the Libyan coasts. That's where prevention is needed. Fighting and occupying Gaddafi's Libya was a mistake that Italians pay, because of the French and because of those who wanted to remove Italy [[. (The microphone switches off automatically.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u49	Senator Barani, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u50	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). Yes, Madam President, I have actually concluded. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u51	Madam President, we obviously would not have wished to speak today about this umpteenth massacre that hits everyone in a particularly strong way. Let us consider the intervention made today by the President-in-Office of the Council as a strong self-criticism that the Government is doing to its work over the last few months for lost time and, above all, for short memory. We cannot think of having this debate without saying that there are serious political responsibilities. There are serious political responsibilities of Europe, but also serious political responsibilities of this Government: those serious political responsibilities that have not prevailed in recent months that sense of humanity that we have heard many times in recent days. Look, we all have difficulty even reading the pages of the newspapers and the dramatic stories of young people, men, women and children. Anger and pain are mixed. However, we cannot escape because we are in this House talking about serious political responsibilities. First of all, I would like to talk about the serious political responsibility that this Government carries with it when it decided months ago to stop the Mare nostrum mission. We must not forget that. Today many lives are saved, but too few, thanks to the great work that the Navy does and that the Sicilian fishermen do. Above all, we must stress that we have had the European Semester. In June 2014 we held a debate in this House, before the beginning of the European Semester, to give a mandate to the President of the Council on the Mare nostrum mission and to really open a negotiation with Europe on what it meant to share the Mare nostrum operation. We must say that it was not a priority here, within our European action, for Italy's role vis-à-vis migrants and Africa, as I have heard in this House today. But what does it mean to share with Europe? It means to think of sharing policies for the relief of migrants and the reception of refugees; it means policies for regular entry into European territory and resolution of conflicts, obviously on the African continent; it means to study possible forms of requests for international protection even outside European borders; it means policies for the respect of the effective migratory path of migrants themselves; it means to build legal access routes to remove migrants from organised crime; it means to encourage and speed up investigations for refugees and asylum seekers. These are concrete proposals. Above all, what better opportunity to continue and resume the lost time of the semester and use the role of the European Foreign Minister? We said that the appointment of Minister Mogherini was a strong commitment on the part of Italy to build European foreign policy. We are still waiting to understand what it means to build European policy if we fail and have not managed to achieve a genuine, not only economic, commitment from the European Union to missions such as Mare nostrum.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u52	Senator, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u53	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). I'm gonna finish. We preferred to listen to the President-in-Office of the Council's speech, rather than to the entrepreneurial Minister for the Interior, Alfano, who, whenever he tries to draft a proposal, obviously, as the President of the Council said, has only reactions and not answers. In fact, there are specific commitments that can also be made in Italy with respect to immigration. In the meantime, it is a question of abolishing the Bossi-Fini law. These are concrete things to do. In addition, we close the CIEs because they are not only places of corruption, as the President told us: the CIEs are inhuman places of reception. We return, starting from the concrete acts that this Parliament does, those funds cut off to the regions and local authorities, which are fundamental to the reception system within our country. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator. PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). I shall conclude by saying that we hope for concrete commitments this time, because we have made the Cassandres several times in this House. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u54	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u55	Madam President, Mr Renzi, ladies and gentlemen, every expression, every word that you even try to represent mourning, pain, indignation is emptied because it is inadequate in the face of such tragedies; it annihilates, it is incongruous to represent immeasurable drama; it is too weak to be able to fully and congruly describe hundreds of thousands of submerged and thousands of saved: dreaming of Europe have drowned, dreaming of life have died. After every massacre of migrant people, there is dismay, anguish, scandal and, unfortunately, also unqualified attempts to manipulate such tragedies for the purposes of a small political workshop. Human beings fleeing from wars, civil conflicts, poverty embark, and are forced to embark, on carts of the sea and find death while their countries of origin destabilize even more. And Europe, and not just Europe, cannot find solutions that are common and effective. It no longer makes sense to say enough to these continuous massacres, also worth the addiction to an escalation of mourning and pains that are consumed in the Mediterranean Sea. Europe, the European Union, has an improcrastinable duty to immediately rethink strategies and instruments, starting with Triton, creating a common front with international bodies, first of all the UN that is absolutely necessary to intervene; it has an obligation to intervene. It must therefore be a joint commitment, so many victims, even without a name, claim it our consciences, impose it our institutional responsibilities. You, Mr Renzi, said in your speech that there must be no more room for demagogic, but it must be the time of politics. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u56	I would like to ask colleagues who are talking to the President-in-Office to allow him to listen to the speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u57	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I was saying that you, Mr Renzi, in your report referred to the fact that it is no longer time for demagogies, but it is time for politics. We share it completely. Europe has, to date, demonstrated a serious short-sighted policy. There is a total lack of a truly European Mediterranean policy. Suffice it to mention that countries such as Lebanon or Jordan welcome many more refugees than their populations in Europe. Europe has abandoned several areas to their fate, without engaging in a policy aimed at peace, albeit extremely complex. The next extraordinary European Council will have to make certain commitments, and we have full confidence that Italy will have a priority role to play in this Council. In particular we ask for: interventions in the countries of origin, allowing migrants who have the right to ask for protection directly in Africa; the creation of humanitarian channels to be managed through humanitarian desks (humanitarian reception points) able to provide a safe and protected way of transit to Europe; the destruction of boats; a careful intelligence work; an emergency relocation of migrants, shared among all countries. In short, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we need an activation, a major European rescue operation. It is necessary to create legal channels for emigration in order to ensure safe travel. We must save people, which does not clearly mean encouraging arrivals. The naval blockades - I think - are completely unrealistic. There is absolutely a need for a dialogue aimed at national unity on a very serious problem, which will inevitably accompany us for a long time. It is the political realism that gives us this consideration, but it is also a warning: a national unity also means, above all, greater strength at the international level. The migration crisis is a humanitarian crisis, therefore an international one. Every divisive dialectic, even at the national level, can produce nothing positive; nothing that is humanitarianly acceptable. We also avoid opposite populisms: to push everyone away or to accommodate everyone; they are both impossible options. 11:31 a.m. (Romano followed). In expressing our confidence in the figure that the Presidency of the Council will represent Italy at the next European Council, at this point I find an expression, a reflection that I believe unites this House. It's the one that Don Milani called back, saying, If, however, you have the right to divide the world into Italians and foreigners, then I will tell you that, in your sense, I have no Homeland and claim the right to divide the world into disinherits and oppressed on the one hand, privileged and oppressors on the other. One is my homeland, the other my foreigners. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE), PD and AP (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u58	Senator Repetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u59	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, unfortunately, once again, we have experienced, from helpless spectators, events and images of tragedy with few comparisons. At this moment, politics, the real one, and not the petty debates, is the only way to respond to tragedy, indifference, impotence, resignation. Only politics that can look at reality and reason on facts, not on emotions, and even less on ideologies, not only can prevent the repetition of such misfortunes, but can address at the root the problems of our age. The truth is simple: our world is characterized by too many inequalities. It is from these global imbalances and from the conflicts that devastate the poorest continents that natural migrations are born, and against naturality it is difficult to erect walls. This uncontrollable migration is only a symptom of a much greater tragedy that is consumed on the Libyan territory and not only, today no one's land and the conquest of ISIS. If we forget to consider this scenario, everything else becomes show politics, as all too often, unfortunately, happens in Italy. This does not mean embracing an ideological goodness, so we have only one policy of reception and relief, which is the other side of an irreconcilable policy that adds problems to problems. Having an adequate view of the world's problems means, on the contrary, making complex decisions. On this point, President Renzi, let me say that we all know that an intervention in Libya, in order to facilitate the birth of a Government, will be as necessary as inevitable, even if at this moment there seems to be no conditions. But I'm of the idea that the more time passes and the more difficult and dangerous the situation becomes. A Europe that does not propose to face the dramatic problems of a continent such as Africa, which is pressing on our borders, recognizing the dignity of the human person, does not deserve respect, just as it does not deserve respect for a Europe that is unable to stop the unacceptable trafficking of human beings and to welcome those who flee from wars and persecutions. This tragedy will also be a test for Europe, but this time, precisely because what is at stake is not a political issue, but it concerns the lives of thousands of people, Europe cannot and must not fail. I know that you, Mr Renzi, know this well, just as I know that your role at the European Council will be essential for the whole of Europe to finally act, tomorrow, as a true political entity. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u60	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u61	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you for the information you have wanted to share with this House, in the face of an unprecedented tragedy, with devastating humanitarian, socio-political and environmental risk reflections, which is putting a strain on the resilience of our country. For this reason, I would first of all like to thank the Pinotti and Alfano ministers for the valuable work of coordination and participation carried out in these hours, which gives the measure of how much the country is able to respond actively despite the lack of adequate international instruments. The convocation of the extraordinary European Council of tomorrow is a sign of awakening - paraphrasing the words of Minister Gentiloni - from the torpor of conscience in which Europe has fallen, which has generated a shameful immobilism, legitimized by cross vetoes of political interests of individual countries. The awareness of this leads us to analyze the facts of these hours in a different light and our country, even in the difficulty of a solitary management, has been able to operate with a courage of which one can only be proud, but that in the aftermath of the umpteenth ecatombe turns into anger for what could have been done. It is shameful to discuss the opportunity of the relief at sea of migrants, especially in the name of those principles of democracy and the rule of law, which our Constitution inspires and which seem to be sometimes sacrificed in the name of demagogic proclamations which have only the aim of gathering consensus. The defence of human life is imperative, because saving the human person means saving human society. As you yourself mentioned, Italy has so far done a commendable job, despite the shortage of instruments, collaboration and resources: I am thinking of the forces of order, the workers of the Red Cross, the commitment of the operators of reception centres, the citizens themselves of Lampedusa, the Sicilian fishermen, whose dedication is perhaps the most eloquent expression of our country's ability to act in spite of everything. And also in the light of this, the various speculations raised by a certain policy these days have an even bitterer flavor, reducing the complexity of the migratory event to a political dispute. Would it not be easier to identify the flaws of the system and find solutions that go far beyond demagogy? It is clear that there are regulatory limits that strengthen the terms of the migratory emergency. We have long been calling for the reform of Dublin III, with the aim of calling for the responsibility of individual European countries. The search and rescue operations of migrants should be carried out precisely by an international mission and not left to autonomous Italian management. Hence the need for a new framework providing for the assumption of responsibilities in terms of reception by individual countries on the basis of specific criteria, together with the improvement of the EUROSUR border surveillance system, which should improve both the security of the common European borders and the protection of the safety of those who land on the coasts. But let us also reflect on another aspect: are we just talking about desperate people fleeing war or are there also many migrants who leave their country to look for new opportunities? It is customary to speak of a single indistinct category of migrants fleeing from the war, not even asking us the question of the political scenario existing in the countries of departure. As I said, the countries of origin are many and not always characterized by conflicts or war scenarios. I am thinking, for example, of Ethiopia, Nigeria, Eritrea, countries from which large numbers of migrants come, where there is no climate of conflict, where there certainly is no political harmony, but we cannot point out these, like other African countries, as places of war. To frame all migrants fleeing as potential asylum seekers is a work of political sloppiness that our country cannot and must not afford. Unfortunately, it is also this superficiality that feeds the immigration business. Let's not forget, in fact, that behind every business hides a marketing strategy that is consolidated, sometimes, even in the market. The demand for escape also grows because there is an accurate plan of communication on the part of the so-called lords of the sea, a plan that is based on deception and that conveys wrong messages. Unfortunately, this skilful marketing campaign does not correspond to an equally skilful counter-information campaign carried out by Europe. It would take a little time to sabotage this trend. Through an international awareness campaign people should be given a different message, made up of risks and unknowns. This could be a first important step towards raising awareness on the ground. It reflects the fact that, just three years ago, the European Court of Human Rights condemned Italy for its rejection of Libya. Paradoxically, however, as I said, the obligation to save people at sea in the hands of States is neither signed by the European Union nor enshrined in the Council of Europe or in the European Convention on Human Rights. Europe is therefore on the one hand sanctioning, on the other hand silent. I wonder, Mr President, why, in the meantime, Europe has not wanted to review the terms of cooperation with the countries of origin and transit of migrants, as advocated in the 2011 Global Approach to Migration and Mobility. These deaths weigh so much on the European conscience that they provoke such a counter-trend reaction. And the ten-point plan for managing the immigration emergency, presented yesterday at the joint summit of Foreign Ministers and the European Union's internal affairs, is perhaps the clearest sign of a willingness to change course. We are asking ourselves today, however, whether it will really be possible with this programme to undermine such a well-established system of wrongdoing. I would like to focus in particular on point 2 of the plan, which relates to a systematic effort to capture and destroy the vessels used by traffickers, because I have some doubts. How do you intend to implement this strategy without, for example, compromising the interests of fishermen in the territory? Is it not, for example, the risk of indirectly affecting the healthy part of the weak economy of the territories? The link with the two Libyan governments should be the first step in an effective plan of intervention and should be able to count on the full availability of these against the illicit forces that feed the business of landings. This, in theory, is indispensable, but we are aware of the extreme complexity of implementing this plan. Without Libyan cooperation, we should feel entitled to plan an intervention under the aegis of the UN aimed at permanently obstructing illegal initiatives, going directly to intercept sensitive places, so even in the absence of coordination with local authorities. A hypothesis that you have taken into consideration and that I share, together with my Group, because of a clear pragmatism, is that of targeted operations, understood as police operations, necessarily under the auspices of the UN, with low military intensity but with high specialized content. I believe that what you wanted to see about setting up collection centres on the ground, for the definition of a humanitarian corridor in support of migrants on the run, is a commendable prospect over the very short period. However, the operational action plan must also be accompanied by an on-the-spot flow management plan aimed at safeguarding the profiles that really meet the criteria for granting asylum in European countries. By not affecting the sovereignty of Libyan governments, it would be desirable to place European outposts in Libyan boarding ports capable of developing a screening of asylum applications that must fall within the same parameters for the whole Union, exceeding the principle of the burden of granting the right to the port country. Finally, on this front, it is worth pointing out (many foreign MEPs have repeated this to me several times) that an image of Italy is showing an attempt to promote a strategy of assistance for migrants exclusively in order to be able to access the related European funds. It goes without saying that there is probably a fallacious information system at European level, made up of incorrect and fragmentary communications, which, in my opinion, risks jeopardising the operational potential of the countries of good will, lowering the threshold of confidence and masking what has been done so far with difficulty: this cannot happen. It must also be said that the many investigations certainly do not help us, but this is certainly another aspect, although - in my opinion - strongly related. The call is therefore for close surveillance. Let us not lower our guard in our country, Mr President, in order not to compromise that credibility that Italy has gained on the ground, managing in an authoritative way a drama in the silence of the European institutions, also to ensure the real implementation of a renewed plan of protection and management of the emergency first and then assistance, but that knows how to look inside and outside the national borders. Mr President, this is a challenge and we are fully aware of it. The emotional and anger of these first few days must be restored, but we must no longer be alone, and the shared hope is that tomorrow we will return to talking about Europe's responsibilities. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u62	The professors and students of the Institute are following the Senate's work, including the "Fabrizio De André" of Samatzai, in the province of Cagliari, and the "Istituto d'Educazione Superiore" (Istituto d'Educazione Superiore) Giudici Saetta and "Livatino" of Ravanusa, in the province of Agrigento, which we greet and thank for their visit. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u63	Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u64	Mr President, on behalf of the 5 Star Movement, I welcome President Renzi's invitation to cooperate on these issues, because in reality the 5 Star Movement on the subject of immigration has been working since the beginning of this parliamentary term. For the Movement, in fact, there are no persons of series A or of series B, but there are Governments of series A, of series B, of series C or of series Z. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Since the massacre of Christmas night in 1996, when we mourned so many dead immigrants off the island of Lampedusa, all the successive governments have not been able to make a single act that has put an end to this death in the Mediterranean, culminating in a triumph of institutional hypocrisy with the establishment of a day for the memory of immigrants and ending with another sad act of institutional hypocrisy of those who come to recite the poems for the poor immigrants instead of doing what they have to do. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The 5 Star Movement is there because for us no one must hold back, foreign citizens and Italian citizens. The 5 Star Movement has always been there, while the Italian Government, in the cosmic vacuum of the European semester, took care of everything except immigration. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if you want to cooperate, you must listen to us, otherwise you do not hear our proposals and cooperation dies in the bud. While this government committed itself to an empty European semester of content going to beg for free trade treaties here and there, we deposited in Montecitorio a unanimously approved motion that you have signed (I hope, therefore, that you have read it), in which there were many of the points you mentioned today. I am referring to the possibility of applying for asylum in the countries of transit or departure; to the overcoming of the Dublin III regulation, to the request for UN cooperation in order to establish assistance centres in the countries of origin or in the countries of transit. This motion has remained empty, but we also included elements in it to avoid the war between the poor, because that is what happens, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. In fact, this desire to go after one another without ever being able to control nobody creates a war between the last of the last, between Italian citizens who do not know how to survive and immigrants who start from a territory that haunts them to get humiliated by a rogue state such as the Italian one. The 5 Star Movement is there and was alone when we were in the square with immigrants who were driven out of your cooperatives, by the cooperatives of Buzzi who on these desperate poor make more money than with drugs. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Here, the 5 Star Movement was alone in the square with the thirteen asylum seekers put at the door by the cooperative 29 June. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we found them at Termini Station. These are people who were entitled to kindergarten, who were left alone and who called us because no one listened to them. The 5 Star Movement is there, while you were busy meditating on how to divide the people who arrived on our territory. There are not, in fact, only the scafists: these are the delinquents departing, but they are connected to a network of incoming delinquents that are headed by the right and left cooperatives. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Hunters feed and rely on these local delinquencies, which are no different from those of the Hunters: there is no greater cruelty in a Hunter than in someone who confesses on the phone that they make more money with these people than with drug trafficking. We fight, then, not only the hullists, but also the network and the cancer that infiltrates institutions, cooperatives and local and mafia associations of various kinds, of various faces and of various extractions that I have not heard of. Do you want to cooperate? I would remind you, then, that we have deposited a bill in the first Commission that would regulate the asylum application procedure because the reason why we keep these migrants so long is because they make you earn: the longer they stay, the more they fatten the pockets of your co-workers. In our draft law (which, from the point of view of cooperation between the majority and the opposition, I invite you to schedule) there are several important points. It has been parked in the 1st Commission for six months. It provides for a review of asylum procedures, an acceleration of applications and a distinction between asylum seekers for international protection and subsidiary protection, which would allow these reception centres to be emptied. Many immigrants - it is also understandable - do not want to stay in Italy and want to reach their relatives in the North of Europe. In the draft law we were talking about overcoming Dublin III. We invite you to cooperate with us and from the point of view of this cooperation we are there. We therefore call on you to vote in favour of our resolution, which summarises the concepts so far: to promote the European Union's legal framework on asylum with the overcoming of Dublin III; to promote in European fora the forecasts that applications for protection and related documentation may be submitted to the embassies and consulates of the Member States, by easing the burden on our territory; to ensure favourable forms of reception, compatible with the possibilities of host countries, ensuring non-discriminatory treatment for migrants, with enhanced protection for minors. We forget, among other things, that many minors are missing among the various migrants: once they arrive on our territory, we are not even able to protect not the last of the last, but the children of the last of the last. We don't find them anymore; we let them get away from our hands, leaving them to organized crime and who knows what other trafficking. Our motion for a resolution also proposes to take initiatives at European level for a more effective action towards countries of origin and transit by engaging and encouraging their governments in a serious and supportive policy of managing flows, especially in the fight against the Italian and foreign criminal organizations that profit from trafficking in human beings. I'm waiting for the President to listen to me. (The President-in-Office talks with Senator Napolitano.) [[Comments from the PD Group]] Mr President, if you want to cooperate with the opposition, perhaps you should listen to them from time to time. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Our motion for a resolution calls for the establishment of a European reception system based on solidarity between the Member States and the distribution of the presence of refugees by direct quotas defined on the basis of demographic indices, so as to create a Europe of solidarity and unity in the management of these flows. Finally, I'd like to offer you another prayer, always waiting for you to listen to me... [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u65	Senator, the President certainly listens to you. Please talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u66	[[Protests from the M5S Group.]] FACTORS (M5S). Listening is crucial. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Go ahead, Senator. FACTORS (M5S). I am really interested in the fact that we, as 5 Star Movement, can interact with the Government, but to interact we need to listen to each other, and if you listen to one person you cannot listen to another. One last point. The war between the poor is something we absolutely want to avoid. We express all our solidarity for the deaths at sea, our closeness to immigrants and refugees driven from their countries, who come here to seek rights that, however, are also denied to Italian citizens. So we believe that any immigration policy must be accompanied by the debate and finally by the adoption of our bill on citizenship income, which would give dignity to Italian citizens and lead them to a greater openness towards those who are worse off than they are. I shall end by asking for non-demagogic support, listening to and cooperating with the Government on our proposals and voting on our resolution. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u67	Senator Amoruso is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u68	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you started your report today by recalling a response that must be organic, strategic and cultural. These are words that we fully agree with. That is why I say to you that, on our part, there is absolutely no emotional attitude, but there is the responsibility of those who care about the drama, that it is not only a problem, that involves human beings, a country and those who work and live in this country. That is why today we are finally calling for a different approach, capable of intervening at three hundred and sixty degrees on problems, a concrete approach and not an opportunity. Unfortunately, we must remember that perhaps we have waited too long: we had to wait for a misfortune that has seen death, it seems, over 900 people in order to finally have the shot necessary to tackle, with organic strategies and cultural capacity, this serious problem. In 2013 there had already been 366 deaths in Lampedusa, but the problem had remained in the ordinaryity of the emergency with which the issue of illegal immigration has been addressed in these 15 years. Meanwhile, departures and landings continue, and in the face of these things there has often been an absence from those who were to intervene. Today the Attorney General of Catania talks about the danger of a million possible immigrants coming. I would like to remind you, dear President, that as early as 29 April 2014, so almost a year ago, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we heard in a cognitive survey the central director of immigration of the Ministry of Interior Pinto, and on that occasion he already told us about the danger, according to data that came from intelligence actions carried out then in Libya, that over 800,000 people were potentially willing to face the crossing of the Mediterranean. It has been a year, it has taken 900 deaths, unfortunately, to tackle this problem today, in a concrete way I hope. The director himself pointed out that that great operation of Mare nostrum, which everyone exalted, had been excellent to save lives, but totally unable to face the problem, to face what the criminal organizations were creating on that territory, which today is the problem we are faced with: the crossing of thousands, thousands and thousands of migrants. On that occasion, when we talked about rethinking the organisation of all that was involved in patrol, it was said that this had to be done through greater involvement of the European Union, which was not there. I remember your speech in this House at the beginning of the European Semester. She made a passage that I wanted to emphasize and that was very interesting for me: she spoke of the centrality of the Mediterranean during the six months of the Italian Presidency. I do not know what has happened, but there has certainly been no centrality, and in these six months, as today, more thought has been given to Ukraine, to the East and to the problems of other parts, than to the real drama that we have today at the heart of our Mediterranean Sea. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] There was talk of arrivals that were motivated in a variety of ways. Today, in fact, we are faced with a problem that no longer only concerns those who run from hunger and seek work and well-being. Those are and even on that subject we could open a chapter, on which unfortunately the last Governments intervened only with the demagogy typical of the left, to cancel those norms that provided for controlled and serious immigration in Italy, which could be useful and not uncontrolled and dangerous for the nation. But today we have a problem that concerns human beings who flee from war, violence, persecution, fanaticism and who often, in the same crossings, are victims of fanaticism. It is a few days ago the news that migrants of the Christian religion have been drowned by some passengers of a ship just as Christians, to try to keep others who were not Christians going. We are faced with the executioners, but the problem is not only that of the boatmen, of these new Negroes, as they are called, who often, full of alcohol and drugs, bring many people to death. Today the problem is also of those who are behind it, of the criminal organizations - which we have been talking about for a long time, but against which often nothing has been done - that manage this traffic. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Candiani]] They use this traffic to enrich themselves and use the resources derived from it to finance other trafficking, arms, drugs and death. So, dear President, the problem is complex. But it is also the result of wrong policies at international level. Today on the Libyan crisis we should all wonder why we have reached this point. Some time ago we chanted a spring that was born in many countries in the Maghreb area. That spring became an autumn and a cold winter. In fact, beyond a few exceptions, such as Tunisia and, fortunately, it is trying to be Egypt, thanks to the latest events, in other realities we have much more difficult and dramatic situations, because we have intervened in a wrong way, which certainly should not have been pursued if we really had international interest at heart. A lack of attention that Europe has always had. Also on that occasion - again referring to the aforementioned hearing of Director Pinto in April 2014 - there was talk of the need for a rethink of the Dublin III Regulation, which is what we are asking for today, because that type of intervention must now be revised and corrected. Europe too has often been absent from this problem. How many calls, how much stress! President Merkel's statement today also leaves us very concerned. In fact, while showing willingness and considering it right to intervene, then it poses problems, almost to say: Easy, let's wait and see. It is not possible to address these issues in this way. The problem is urgent: tomorrow Italy will have to strongly support the initiatives that the European Union will have to take. We must be allowed to intervene to destroy the hulls of death on the beaches of Libya to ensure that they do not leave. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] , but at the same time we need to be able to guarantee even greater control of the waters, if necessary through a naval blockade and everything that is useful to discourage and prevent the traffic of death. This is an effort that we must all make together: a political effort, intelligence and action. We want to emphasize this, dear President: this effort must really serve our country to be at the forefront, in a policy that looks at the well-being of the people and respect for human life and that must allow Italy - which has always supported it, while Germany and the countries of the North and East have prevented it - to intervene in those countries through serious forms of economic aid. We must fight against this: if you do, we will support this action, otherwise we will continue to denounce the shortcomings and absences. Unfortunately, we are tired of having to mourn the victims of these attitudes. Let me conclude, Mr President-in-Office, by recalling that you have read a beautiful poem, which we share. But I come from a region that lives the experience of a poet president, who led the Region to disaster: I hope that you do not want to follow that path. Today's poem is fine, but - as he rightly said - we must be close and supportive and help those who engage from morning to evening, the Forces of Order, the volunteers and all those who work to address this problem. We must do this seriously, because this problem is particularly relevant to our situation in the Mezzogiorno, Sicily and my Apulia. In Taranto, which has become a hub for the arrival of immigrants, operators have often been left alone to deal with those problems, without precise directives. I would not like the logic of arming and leaving to prevail, but I would like to see a serious and concrete response from the country - as you said at the beginning of your speech, Mr President-in-Office of the Council - through organic, strategic and cultural action, guaranteeing respect for man and the safeguarding of human life. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u69	She is registered to speak Senator Valdinosis. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, looking at the images of the tragedy last Sunday, I could not help but feel anger and frustration. Anger, because too many times we have said "never" again, in the face of the repetition of these tragedies, and frustration, because I cannot and do not want to think that our Europe is unable to do anything and remains powerless in the face of this continuous massacre in the Mediterranean Sea. Who are those 900 dead? First of all, they are lost lives, naked lives, to quote the words of Giorgio Agamben, abandoned to a cruel destiny for the sole desire to achieve happiness and even before life itself, their very survival, far from their own states, driven by despair, hunger and wars. I believe that we must all make an effort to understand, because if we can at least partially share the analysis of the cause of this, then I think we will be able to share some of the possible answers - the necessary and urgent ones and the medium and long-term ones - because the problem is enormous - the President-in-Office of the Council recalled this in his speech this morning - and it calls for a structured and non-emergency approach. That is why, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I feel I should like to thank you for the things you have said to us this morning and for your and the Government's efforts, which I believe are up to the challenges we are facing and the answers we need to give. So let's start with this question: why were those migrants traveling and facing the risk of crossing the Mediterranean on one of those terrible boats? The answer is very simple: we, Europe, Western society, are based on rights and freedom, equality and acceptance. Migrants from the Libyan coast look up and look at Europe, actually look to us, to what we are and to what we have become. The history of Europe is that of a people able to take the sea to seek new routes, within themselves and outside the known lands: just think of the tens of millions of migrants who have crossed the Atlantic Ocean from the European countries in the last two centuries to save themselves from a destiny of hunger and even persecution (think of the years of Nazism and Fascism and the many Jews forced to find refuge in the United States). That is why we cannot accept a tragedy such as that which took place off Libya: we cannot let the Mediterranean, the sea of Europe, become the dead sea, as effectively headlined by a French newspaper yesterday. The European Union cannot turn to the other side: it is about our history, our values and what we want to be our future, but it must be able to unfold all its humanity, civilization and culture in order to cope with this dramatic situation with a strong political response. Let's think about it: no one comes from seventy years of peace like us, children of that Liberation that we will celebrate in a few days, on April 25. As Europeans, we cannot be proud of what was even celebrated by a Nobel Prize winner, if we face the tragedy today with a mixture of cynicism and indifference. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Italy has always done its part towards migrants and will continue to do so. We have therefore welcomed the convening of this extraordinary European Council, an unprecedented initiative of our country. We must be clear, however, on one point: we do not call into question the European Union to escape our responsibilities and our role, but to assume it in all its dimensions. The Italian Government, and with it our country, has regained in this last period a credibility and a stronger role in Europe. That is why I appreciated the words and behaviors of humanity and responsibility in this House and in the country, in a spirit of collaboration of all political forces beyond the ranks, in the common awareness that strong and shared support to the Government can really contribute to positive results, because - as you said, President Renzi - there is no division in the face of these issues, but there is Italy. Of course, it is easier to launch slogans than to seek and propose solutions. We are on the right track and now we are asking for it, but tomorrow our Government will be asking for it: Europe must act immediately, without delay a moment more, because those who drowned in the Mediterranean have not only died Africans nor only Italians, but have died Germans, Spanish, Danish, Poles, French: in short, have died Europeans, of the world. That is why the European Union has the categorical imperative of finding a dual solution, as regards reception policies, but also the instability of an entire area, the one facing the Mediterranean. In this regard, I would like to express our Group's full support for the action that President Renzi is taking in the European field. Be careful: it is not an action of the last hour, but the natural consequence of a long series that has seen our country at the forefront to address the migration issue. I am thinking of the European Semester, in which we fought to affirm the idea that the Mediterranean should affect not only Italy, France or Greece, but also Finland and Great Britain. If there is not to be a Northern Europe against a Southern Europe in the economy, the same applies to human rights and security. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Tomorrow's European Council is a great and extraordinary opportunity for the European Union to shake off the indifference and hesitation of recent years, and to agree to do its duty to millions of human beings who want nothing more than to be able to lead a life worthy of this name. You, Mr President, have clearly indicated what must be the priorities for combating and defeating with targeted actions this new "slave trafficking": interventions in the countries of origin, up to the heart of Africa, increase in the Triton budget, emergency relocation shared among all countries, collaboration with the United Nations, joint effort at the southern borders of Libya: concrete actions, not generic agreements or agreements on vague points. We understand that there is a broad consensus on the importance of combating trafficking, as well as the need to work forward on reception costs. In this respect, the principle of mutual recognition of asylum between States should be affirmed, and the application of the humanitarian clause on family reunification should be called for, facilitating the transit of unaccompanied minors. The European Commission will present an Agenda on immigration on 13 May. I hope that there will be concrete steps and solutions immediately practicable, in execution of the points raised by the Italian Government during the European Semester. Is there an alternative to this? That is the last question I ask myself and I ask you. Yes, but it's very sad. It is the path of those who choose to take advantage of this tragedy, not to engage, without even having the courage to think of the drowned dead, as if there were two humanitys, and one worth less than the other. But those who think so have the courage to say it clearly, without trenching behind the cynicism of the facade, or behind the political and electoral calculations more biech. This is not the face of Italy. The face of Italy is that of women and men who save lives. It is the face of those administrators and volunteers engaged in the reception. It is the face of the thousands of good people, workers and workers, engaged in reception centres. That is not the face of Europe. This is not the face of the West. As the President of the Republic, Sergio Mattarella, rightly pointed out, this is the time for extraordinary action involving, in addition to the European Union, international bodies and UN agencies for policies that address the emergency from countries of origin. No one can win this battle alone. If we do not want more deaths on the European conscience, we must all act together. Now. Good European Council. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u71	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I would like to inform the Assembly that motions for resolutions No 1, No 2 by Senator Calderoli, No 3, No 3 by Senator De Petris and other senators, No 4 by Senator Zanda, Schifani and Zeller, No 5 by Senator Marton and other senators, and No 6 by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators, whose texts are distributed. I call on the State Secretary to speak to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, Mr Gozi, and I would also ask him to give his opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u72	Mr President, I am speaking because the President-in-Office of the Council had to leave for Marzabotto. He could not stay until the end of our work to participate in the celebrations of that horrible massacre that took place during the Second World War. The Government's opinion is against the motion for a resolution No 1, signed by Senator Calderoli; against the motion for a resolution No 2, signed by Senator De Petris and other senators; against the motion for a resolution No 3, signed by Senator Centinario and other senators; against the motion for a resolution No 4, signed by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller. With regard to motion for a resolution No 5, signed by Senator Marton and other senators, the Government is against the premises and is returning to the House for the remainder. Finally, the opinion is contrary to the premises and supports the provision of motion for a resolution No 6, signed by Senator Paolo Romani and other senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u73	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u76	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, if this is the cooperation requested by the President-in-Office of the Council with minorities, let us begin well. It is true that his departure, his absence and, therefore, is justified, but the hope is that his ministers will be able to tell him what is said by the Group of the North Lega in the explanation of vote. Mr President, I regret that we lost one morning because we saw the President-in-Office of the Council's speech which, in our view, did not say anything at all. Above all, I regret your presence in this Chamber and the conduct of the President-in-Office of the Council. However, I must point out (as a senator at the first legislature and, therefore, I do not know what happened in the past, since I have only seen two Presidents of the Council) that at least President Letta was educated and listened. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Taverna]] I am sorry to have to deal, at this point, with a President-in-Office of the Council who does not listen to us, who looks at the phone, who "tweets," who does, who laughs, who jokes. Unfortunately, however, this is the policy, the Senate is this and, as a result, we must take what the convent passes to us. On October 3, 2013 there was the first great tragedy of Lampedusa. On that occasion, politics took a firm stand, saying that such a thing should no longer happen. The associations lined up compactly, saying that such a thing was no longer to happen. From abroad the Ministers arrived, saying that from now on the Mediterranean would no longer be the coffin and cemetery of migrants. The Pope went to Lampedusa, urging the Italian Government and the whole world to avoid all that situation. There were pages and pages of newspapers, hours and hours of live television, hours and hours of TV debates. Point at the end: after two years we are at the starting point and practically nothing has been done. Nothing has been done except for two initiatives, Mare nostrum and Triton, which, according to the President of the Council, led to 3,500 deaths in 2014. Fortunately, we had the Italian Navy, which, according to those who are currently managing our country in an unholy way, should have avoided what had happened on October 3, 2013. Therefore, today we are attending the same theatre: we have seen it in these days on television and newspapers and today in the Chamber. It is the same hypocritical theater of a policy that intervenes only and exclusively when things happen that affect public opinion. Otherwise, nobody cares, let alone the professional "tweeter" Matteo Renzi. Today, President-in-Office of the Council, you have come to see nothing concrete - I repeat: nothing concrete - and no concrete proposals in your speech: only very dense smoke. We have not heard of any short-term strategy. What will you do to prevent the merchants of death from getting rich? We haven't heard from him in the Chamber. What will you do to keep them from going? We haven't heard from him in the Chamber. How will you assist those who arrive? We have not heard that from the President-in-Office in this House. No medium-long-term strategy, no generic strategy, but nothing concrete in the medium-long-term because there is no real medium-long-term strategy. What do you want to do in those countries? What do you want to do in Libya? What do you want to do in the countries of departure? It is all vague because Parliament needs to be given as little information as possible; in Parliament it is necessary to make the catwalk and then tweet that democracy is saved. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Today, President-in-Office of the Council, we have been witnessing the usual blah, blah, blah, which has accustomed us since he sat there the first time promising that on the school he would make a mess. And tomorrow, President, what do you hope to achieve? It is useless that we tell it, because in the Senate you can come and tell us the lies, but on an international level we do not count anything. Mogherini doesn't matter. She disappeared after she was nominated. We didn't count for anything in the European Presidency, even though someone from the Democratic Party is still under the illusion that Italy did something during that six-month period. Nothing on the Libya case (and we are seeing it today), and on the Ukraine case we were really the mat, the piece from feet of Europe. It is useless to talk about the case, because the two poor Christians are now forgotten by the Italian State, more and more engaged in "tweeting." If something is done - and we anticipate it because we hope something really is done and not because we have Renzi who is good, nice and "tweeter" - it will be done because someone told us that there are a million people on the Libyan coasts ready to leave. Perhaps that million people at European level are starting to get scared. Indeed, as long as there were 170,000 people it was an Italian case, now that there are many more people in Europe, people start to think that it can become something different. The President-in-Office of the Council has expressed some thanks, and we are happy that he has, at least he thanks someone and not himself. He thanked the law enforcement forces, those law enforcement forces with fewer and fewer funds to guarantee order, President of the Council. He thanked the mayors to whom, in 2014, he removed six billion euros and in 2015 he plans to remove eight of them. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Those mayors to whom the prefects, not elected by anyone and representing the State, are sending hundreds of thousands of illegal outsiders to the hotels, but hundreds of thousands of "fancazisti" who are in hotels attached to mobile phones all day without doing anything. They're staying in hotels at our expense. Let me give you an example: the mayor of Robbio, a village in the province of Pavia, in Lomellina, had made an agreement that envisaged giving socially useful work to immigrants present in his municipality, about 80. Well, after fifteen days, no one showed up because it's much nicer to stay at the hotel all day tweeting, like the President-in-Office of the Council. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] He thanked the volunteers, the President of the Council. Yes, it is true, we also thank the volunteers, but we thank those volunteers who have been humiliated by your friends cooperatives who make money behind the backs of the citizens and of all the immigrants who come to Italy. We will be jackals of votes, President of the Council, you are jackals of public money with those cooperatives owned by friends or relatives of those who sit in the government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We, President-in-Office of the Council, in addition to thanking the people you thanked, also thank 10 million Italian citizens under the poverty line who daily struggle to reach the end of the month and for whom you, President-in-Office of the Council, forget every day. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] You, President-in-Office of the Council, ask policy to be united, you asked for it on more than one occasion. You're absolutely right. We're here. The Federal Secretary of the League, Matteo Salvini, responded immediately; since you do so through the press, we also responded through those, saying that we were available for a comparison, but on serious matters. Problem is, he didn't even contact us. Our proposals today are: patrolling the African coasts; fighting criminals; setting up on the spot areas for taking responsibility for refugees; setting up an international commission to assess the receptive capacity of States; adopting an intervention policy with special rules to combat migration flows. That's what it says in the document that you tell us you want to fail (and we are the jackals?). Mr President, the Pope says that similar tragedies must not be repeated (as the League says); Mattarella, the president of the Republic, affirms the need to address the emergency in the countries of origin (such as the League). According to Hollande, there is a need to increase surveillance in the Mediterranean. According to Renzi, Mare nostrum and Triton are two operations that will never solve the problem and must be blocked. Alfano yesterday declared that he wanted an international mandate to fight the merchants of death and to sink the boats of slavery before they leave. Alfano? Now? You've been picking them up for a year, Alfano! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Simeoni]] Bernardino Leon needs a naval blockade, the only thing that can be done. And we're the jackals? Us? President, in 2014, there were 170,000 arrivals by sea, 100,000 arrivals by land; 65,000 people out of 170,000 arrived, i.e. only 25%, asked for political asylum. Do you know how many people got it? 3,700 out of 170,000 people. What are you talking about? What numbers are we talking about? Let us really understand what numbers we are talking about with the data provided by your Minister of the Interior. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] And to those who say that we are jackals - and I am sorry that our Fonzie is not here - I remind you that if we are jackals, President, our President-in-Office of the Council is the chairman of Orwell's animal farm, or he will be the pilot fish of tomorrow's jackals. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Rizzotti, Simeoni and Zin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u79	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office of the Council wanted to remind us this morning of Giorgio La Pira, who considered the Mediterranean an extension of Lake Tiberias. He also said another very beautiful thing: that the Mediterranean had to be like a large square where all the frontier peoples could meet to do what is done - or at least was done - in all the squares: to discuss, talk, confront but also close business, to have economic relations; because this was the square once. That same Giorgio La Pira who was born in Pozzallo, in the city that has become sadly famous for the landings, in that city whose mayor a few months ago had to complain about the lack of sufficient places at the cemetery; he complained about the lack of mortuary rooms to make the autopsies of rite for these poor brothers who died in an attempt to cross the Mediterranean to reach the European continent. If Giorgio La Pira looked at us, I think he'd be horrified to see what became his hometown. I would ask the Prime Minister to make a mental effort. We try to imagine how a man like La Pira, a man of that stature that we quote (and if we quote men it is because we take them for example and we would like to emulate them in their thinking but also in their way of acting), would have acted, and how we should act if we feel like children of that civilization and that approach. Can it not be taken into account today that there are two continents in comparison? In comparison there are not only two geographical areas, but there are two fears: on the one hand there is the African Continent, who is experiencing an extraordinary season of fear, because the inhabitants of that continent daily fear for their life, for their physical survival, not only in the sense of the possibility of providing food to themselves and to their family core, but also in the sense that they risk being killed by armed gangs that even come to conquer the management of the states. These facts multiply, because if Al Qaeda was there first, then there was ISIS, then there is Boko Haram, then there is Daesh in Libya. In that Continent a condition for which there is fear for one's own survival is being fulfilled. And then there is the European Continent, who is experiencing another fear: that of the unknown, of situations that are thought to be uncontrolled, because when governments do not know how to govern the flows and problems ahead, they generate fear of the unknown in citizens, they generate a sense of insecurity and today Europe is experiencing this sense of insecurity, this sense of fear towards the unknown. The unknown is not the foreign citizen who comes to our territory, but unknown are the numbers of flows, unknown is the impact that all this has on society from the point of view of the work and safety of European society itself. In the face of these two fears, then, one cannot remain generic, one cannot simply give certificates of solidarity, one cannot simply recite poems or quote great men and great thoughts: one must act. Today something important is happening, because we must also know how to recognize the things that happen. Silvio Berlusconi also said that he could comfortably recall successful policies carried out in other times. What is happening is that an overall system is being set up that needs precise choices. The European Council meets, President Renzi will be the Italian President and will represent our nation, but he cannot represent it with the generic statements that we have heard today. We have to come to that table with concrete and precise proposals and there are two aspects to be addressed. Firstly, it is certainly necessary to note the element of the humanitarian need that is being consumed on the African continent and this humanitarian need must not only be understood, but the international community's interventions must be productive, because we can approve all the resolutions we want, but we must be resolute and have the UN intervene on the problems of migration, because otherwise there is no reason to exist a United Nations Organization that does not deal with these phenomena. These needs must be traced back to the African continent, put them online, in relation to and in relation to the reality of Europe, in this case to those who can also be the needs of labour on the European continent, to the needs of European cities that cannot live this phenomenon with fear and drama. Secondly, we must intervene in the political chessboard of that continent. How does Italy, even today, recognize two different ambassadors of the Libyan State? How is it possible today to relate as much to Tobruk as to Tripoli or Misrata? How can we fail to intervene decisively, with a clear political line, with respect to what is taking place in Libya? We must go to the European Council with a clear proposal which must be identified by the European Union, because in that area we can no longer act as an Italian State or as a French or Spanish State, either because that policy has been unsuccessful. In fact, when France dreamed of still doing colonial politics on Libya, it determined what we are paying today; because it is true that there was a struggle against a dictator, Gaddafi, but it was not done to free a people, not to restore freedom to citizens or to the altar of humanitarian principles but only on the basis of very low economic interests. That was a colonial policy whose consequences today we Italians also pay. Politics in that area, therefore, must be changed and it must be the European Union as a whole to pose this problem and to place on the ground solutions such as, for example, finding figures that can, at least emblematically, unite the many tribes of the Libyan country, figures that can be recognized above the factions in the field, and then a government that can represent the various interests and different reasons of that country. Libya must be peaceful. Libya must return to being an interlocutor in the Mediterranean to enable us to develop this role. You see: I speak from the benches of a Senate that has found a moment of great synthesis and maturity on these issues. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, go to the European Council with the certainty of a resolution voted by this Senate. We mandate them to represent an Italy that does not speak different languages about the Mediterranean. Today we have heard different languages and different positions on a specific subject and on the commitment that some consider insufficient, others sufficient, others can counter the various issues; on one thing, however, we have shown that we agree and voted unanimously, that is, on the strategic role of Italy in the Mediterranean. A strategic role that can help the global system, which can help not only Italy and its interests but the whole area, because we have a history, we have men. If you must know, Prime Minister, even Francis of Assisi went to talk to the Caliph to talk about peace in this area of the Mediterranean. This is our story. But if we continue with this obnoxious foreign policy, if we continue to be simply proud of having Mogherini as Community Foreign Minister without having from Mogherini not even a hint of confirmation of his activity, really ours becomes a rhetorical exercise and without any satisfaction. Today that we mourn the deaths of the Mediterranean, which have reached 21,000, today that we do not feel in our hearts either to make controversy or instrumental policy with regard to this problem, today we say to the President-in-Office of the Council: go with these concrete proposals to the European Council. Go above all to get to the root of the problems and solutions that must be put in the field. For the rest, the Minister of the Interior and the entire Government we say that in the province of Ragusa and Sicily there are men and women who wake up during the night to help on children's beaches that are dying and drowning and the State cannot support them. There are volunteers who are helping human lives and the state cannot - it is very little dignified - leave to the private sector, to the citizens and to their sensitivity what is its task. On the other hand, the State has less and less resources and is less and less present than this problem. I therefore hope that the Ministry of the Interior will also intervene as much as is necessary. [[Applause from the LAGs (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF) and FI-PdL XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u82	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, yesterday we asked the President-in-Office of the Council to come to this House to report and explain to Parliament our requests and proposals for tomorrow's European Council. We have asked it in the spirit and hope - a little in vain at this point - to be able to have a serious, in-depth debate which would lead to very clear and precise proposals for the European Council. In yesterday's speech at the beginning of the sitting we had warned that it would no longer be bearable for us to hear only rhetorical words once again from those who cry today and then forgot everything in a week. We had warned that we would no longer bear it because, in the face of yet another tragedy, it had arrived and it is time to assume political responsibilities and also to recognize the mistakes made, because if you are really in good faith, if you want to prevent the massacres and try to put in place articulated but concrete proposals, you can also recognize the mistakes made in the past and therefore run for cover. On the other hand, the President-in-Office of the Council - I regret to say this once again - has covered himself behind the commendable heroism (as we called it yesterday) of the Navy, the Coast Guard, the Red Cross, NGOs' volunteers, ordinary citizens, those mayors of the South who have been cut off from all the funds and who alone have to find adequate answers for the reception. The President of the Council has covered himself behind this, behind good words and also behind the admission that the issues are very complex and that certainly, given that the situation of the Mediterranean, North Africa, of all Africa is serious, this is a flow that will continue. You've been hiding behind this to get to propose nothing. Yesterday there were robust statements about the sinking of boats before they leave, and in this we have distinguished ourselves, as always, the Minister of the Interior (since there are not only human life entrepreneurs but also the votes, for which demagogy responds with other demagogy), and today we find ourselves faced with the motion for a resolution of the majority (which looks much like those agendas of the day that approved us, in which we talk about assessing the opportunity), in which the proposals put forward, and which the Government undertakes to bring to European level, are absolutely vague. On the other hand, we are here once again, and on this the President-in-Office of the Council continues to say things that are not true; we have been here on many other occasions, even before the beginning of the European Semester, as Mrs Petraglia mentioned earlier, to ask you to take stock of the idea of continuing the Mare nostrum operation: not to close it, but to ask Europe for a European Mare nostrum operation. The President-in-Office of the Council has told us that even with Mare nostrum the dead had been the same and that it was ultimately a failure. The data - I say this to Undersecretary Gozi who knows very well - are others, because the peak of deaths that has occurred in recent weeks, equal to 1,600 deaths, is almost 100 times greater than that of the same period last year, when the search for help was active, that has been replaced for economic reasons, because that cost 9 million and this 2.9 million euros. By pure political pettyness you have abandoned Mare nostrum; let's be honest: there was a change of government, Letta had collapsed and, since the Letta Government had made Mare nostrum, we had to share this operation. Another political pettyness. Not just me; the most experienced people this country has - I think President Prodi - have told you clearly and round these days that abandoning Mare nostrum was a serious mistake. Then we cannot talk about the values of European humanity and civilization. Europe has abandoned those values for pure mercantilism: 28 countries have not been able to bear a cost which, being to save human lives, was an unfair cost. The contrary opinion on our resolution is precisely for this: you have a dirty conscience about Mare nostrum. That's the truth. I was expecting a different position today. We were here trying to discuss, find and put solutions in place. There's another vagueness. Europe will certainly accept these points because they are all vague, but do we want to make it clear that we must get to the revision of Dublin III? Are we gonna say this or not? What are we going to say in Europe? This is another priority because you know perfectly well what led to the Dublin III regulation: it obliges migrants to seek asylum in the country of arrival, creating imbalances. There was a need to consider this review as a clear and precise point of our request in Europe, otherwise we come to tell ourselves, once again, all stupid things. But the problem is that there are people who die, women, men and children, and we have problems then in our country. As far as the humanitarian corridor is concerned, the UN must also be asked for help in Europe. If we open the humanitarian corridor, we may be able to get asylum there, subtracting migrants from those human flesh traffickers. On this I expected that today we could not only discuss, but that at least the majority had the courage to write some more precise points. That's the truth. The problem is that we want to hide something else: during the European semester we withdrew from Mare nostrum and replaced it with Triton. Frontex is in Poland. That's what we agreed to. This was the role we played in the European Semester (but we were too busy bragging about the European Foreign Minister). We got a call from Hollande about Libya. We are very grateful to you, perhaps someone had to remember the role that France, the United States and Italy had played. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Bencini and Bignami]] Therefore, when Alfano tells us to sink the boats, I would like to know which of the two governments we should have an agreement with. In this case, too, hypergeneric words are used. These are also in the resolution; there is not even a clearer word about the stabilisation of Libya. Then there is the question of Africa's tragedy. Every time Renzi has come to this House to talk about Africa - I invite everyone to read the Reports - he has come to talk to us always before some European Council and Africa only for our energy supply and for the role that ENI can have in that area. He came to speak of this; not of the tragedies in Nigeria, not of Boko Haram. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Campanella, Bignami and Bencini]] Talk about the Christian roots, but you don't care about the fact that they kill every day and Christians are all running away! This we would have expected and apologized once again for the anxiety with which I put this question to you. Look, with these proposals at tomorrow's European Council, as usual, you will have nothing in your hands; and you will not come back here and say that Italy has been left alone, because Italy has not had the courage to ask precisely what it needs. The contrary opinion on the various points I have put before you is proof that you want to keep Triton, that you do not want to review the Dublin agreements, that you therefore do not want to solve at the root and put forward various proposals to try to deal with a drama that we will continue for many years. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators Manconi, Bencini and Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u85	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, it seems to me that overall the problem has already been adequately assessed by this House with very appreciated speeches by several colleagues. I would like to start from what an important opinionist has written today on the main Italian newspaper on this matter: we must distinguish and repress. Woe if we do not put these arguments in logical order: to distinguish first of all, to repress in second line. To distinguish why we have and live an authentic epochal drama, marked not only by the generic flow of millions of refugees who are going to countries where they legitimately think they can live better; no, there is something more, there is something different today in the epochal flow that is coming to our Mediterranean Sea. There are so many outbreaks of war, because the world we are living today is far worse than it was in the past. We have situations in Syria, Iraq, Yemen, the Horn of Africa, the Shabaabs that raid of any kind, and Boko Haram that is, in the middle of Africa, putting further pressure on so many desperate people who are looking for a terrible crossing. Look, distinguishing is fundamental, and distinguishing also means not forgetting. Colleagues, sometimes in all these years there have been small polemics of Italian politics, but the problems have unfortunately multiplied, because it is not that if the Minister today is Alfano the problems are different from those that Minister Maroni had. If, unfortunately, there has been a growing up, it is not the fault of either, but of a situation that passes much above our heads. Let us not forget that the refugees who arrive in Lampedusa are not the last and the only ones: the flows of refugees who come by sea are minority compared to those who come by land. So we are not the only recipients of this human tide, because there are so many who, bypassing the Alps, from the North, from Turkey, from Syria, go directly to the countries of final destination, and Europe is the final half. Look, even in the statements of these days, many of these children pushed into inhumane conditions to come to our countries say: I have relatives in Norway and I have the family Sweden. I want to go to Germany. Europe is the final destination. I'm opening a parenthesis. This says a lot about the European shortsightedness, because Europe has said ritual words about the drama of the Mediterranean, at least until today, but it seems to me that it has awakened. It must be recognised that the ten points at the heart of the Council of Foreign Ministers are very positive and finally show an awareness that it has not yet been seen; but this European omission is self-injury, because Europe is the final destination: we are only the country of first welcome. Colleagues, in this regard too, we have signed treaties in the past; all governments, right and left, have done so. Unfortunately, today there is a need to adapt these treaties, but also our regulations. You know, in fact, that until a few months ago - perhaps even today, frankly I don't know and I would like to ask someone who knows more than I do - the Maltese could destroy the boats. Often the Italian authorities informally addressed the Maltese for this purpose, not being able to do so ourselves because of our regulations. It is necessary to adapt and consider the issues in the light of the new situation: to distinguish and repress. Honestly - for the experience I have of some parliamentary custom - I understand that this is a sensitive issue for public opinion; but let's not make the electoral campaign on it, otherwise we will certainly not help solve the problem. To campaign against these people is to lay the foundations for never resolving anything. Today I have heard, even from colleagues of the League and the 5 Star Movement, signs of deep awareness: they must be valued. It is also good for President Berlusconi to say what he has said in recent days, that is to offer a collaboration to the Government on these issues. It is the moment of national unity on these issues, not of division and tearing between us, because, then, people, out of here, do not distinguish whether we do good or bad, but collectively takes note of the total inability of a ruling class, of majority or opposition, to face the problem. [[Recalls of the President]] I'm done, Mr. President. I've seen that there's a new awareness. There has been a great deal of talk about the naval blockade. I have also spoken about it, honestly, but I have spoken about a naval blockade which is essentially backed up by an action which I see today being that of the European Union, which is the main one. In fact, the problem is not to implement a naval blockade, which can mean everything and its opposite. The real point is to destroy the boats of these boatmen, and it is done with a targeted police action, which we can only get authorized. This is not an operation that we can decide unilaterally. Look, history teaches a lot of things. In the story of Albania there is the recipe for what we have done. In Albania we have done three things: agreement with the Albanian State (but there was an Albanian State, while in Libya there is no one); military police garrisons in Albanian territory; organized destruction in Albanian ports of boats. The phenomenon has stopped. Today we do not have the premise, namely the Libyan statehood. In this respect, it is clear that it is not enough to say that we are in favour of Bernardino Leon's talks. Honestly, every Libyan contact person has their sponsors behind them. We must also put pressure on Egyptian friends, who play a very important role, to avoid hoping that the unification of Libya will come from Tobruk; the Parliament and the Tobruk Government, in fact, will never be the unifying factors of such a complex Libyan reality. It is therefore a question of preventing important powers indirectly sabotaging, through their representatives, the negotiations that Bernardino Leon is making. I therefore believe that it is at last for the UN document yesterday and for the European Council that we are on the right track. I sincerely believe that in this House we all have a deep sense of humanity, which reflects the humanity of our country, the extraordinary effort of our volunteers; but, colleagues, let us not confuse humanity with goodness, because goodness and good intentions are paved the way to hell. We sometimes risk falling into the very network of these traffickers of human beings, who want to push us to emotional initiatives, taken in the wave of emotion, because they serve to feed their dirty traffic. I also want to say something. We do not think that traffickers are only Libyan, Egyptian or Syrian: we must never forget that the identity cards of many of these traffickers are probably also Italian and European, because it is a criminal traffic, which has no borders. We take note of this and, against them the battle must be without neighborhood. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) ePD and Senator Centinario.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u88	NAPOLITANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I felt that it was necessary - not only for the attention and commitment of many years to this dramatic issue of emergencies and problems - to declare not only the reasons for my approval of the motion for a resolution also signed by the Group to which I am honoured to belong, but also, and in the first place, my appreciation for the statements of the President of the Council, for their emotional role and for the valorisation - once again and more than ever - of the commitment and courage of our military and civilian forces committed to saving lives and even recovering the bodies of the poor victims. I particularly welcome the fact that, together with others, we have proposed, requested and obtained the convening of the extraordinary European Council, which should have taken place much earlier and certainly comes very late, but it retains its significance and can have its value depending on the conclusions it will reach. I hope that the President-in-Office of the Council will spend as much energy as possible, because these are conclusions which correspond to the seriousness and urgency of the situation we are experiencing. It is the time of a non-procrastinable action, capable of affecting the development of events in the coming weeks and months. I believe that, in the motions for resolutions of the various parliamentary groups, especially in their arrangements, there are many indications to a large extent that they are common and that they also correspond to the ten points drawn up by the European Commission. However, we must ensure that this becomes an effective decision of the European Council, national governments and common institutions. I would like to say something about this: we cannot be harsh, hard and sometimes even deeply upset and disconcerted - as we all are - in the face of the delay, blindness or impotence of the European Union and then perhaps resist or resist the indispensable and ever closer integration between States and governments from the Union and the development of common policies in many areas, which are the only possible response. Imagine if we were to resign ourselves to respond to this emergency, which invests us in such a tumultuous and painful way. I believe, therefore, that we can trust the good results of this Council, if it is of course not only Italy - and I trust that it is not only Italy - that will fight for very effective conclusions. At the same time, I believe that the current one is not only an urgent time of action, but also a time of reflection. President Renzi said that it is also necessary to give cultural answers. I think it is necessary, first of all, to have full awareness of the scope of these issues. Mr Casini has just mentioned this. We are faced not only with an emergency of rapid development, but also with a historical issue, with movements and stirrings of populations in the Mediterranean, which of course, as has been mentioned and studied by historians, have precedents in many centuries ago. We are, therefore, faced with something like this, but in a completely different world, which is what we live in. I therefore believe that it must be said quite clearly that until yesterday - and we hope not tomorrow too - the issue of the Mediterranean and the Mediterranean-Middle East has remained largely on the margins of the vision, even before action, of the European Union. Remember when, years ago, the then French President launched, with much media noise, the idea of a Union for the Mediterranean, indeed, of the Mediterranean. Then there was a dispute - now it would seem almost a surreal thing - if one were to call the Union for the Mediterranean, meaning that the Union of the Mediterranean could mean something challenging and meaningful only for the countries of the European Union that were facing the Mediterranean. Rightly, the Italian Government also insisted that we talk about Union for the Mediterranean, as a sign of the overall sharing by all the Member States of the Union and its institutions of an attention and commitment to the Mediterranean. Let's also say that nothing has been followed and it was only a parenthesis of purely media value. And again, until very recent times, I have also received echoes of discussions in the European institutions: for many representatives of the countries of Central and Northern Europe, Europe and its responsibilities end there, without ever reaching to embrace the Mediterranean and the Middle East, which is one of the focal points in the crisis that today crosses the world. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE), PD, FI-PdL XVII and AP (NCD-UDC).]] You see, you don't seem excessive and you don't get scared of it, because it has to be part of our prospects. This is perhaps the moment, as never before, after 1989, in which the construction of a new world order is required - as a concrete matter of reflection and then of commitment - and there will be an opportunity to discuss it also on the basis of some very important contribution of historical and cultural elaboration. We have come to the point: we have the absolute need to ask ourselves and to reflect on what can be a more just and sustainable world order; something that has not been done, because after 1989 the illusion spread and spread that, since the end of the Cold War, a world order could perhaps be born unipolar and peaceful in its bosom. There was someone, like a great American politician and stateman, who wrote a book whose title was instead the opposite, "A world out of control." His prediction was not the peaceful achievement of a world order without more internal conflicts, but the manifestation of a world out of control. And I think, unfortunately, history has shown that that definition, which then seemed too pessimistic, had its foundation. We must therefore look very far, as well as very close, to tomorrow, to the coming weeks and months. We must be able to look at, reflect and work for the future as well. Finally, I would like to make one final point. We are always talking about Europe as a historic entity, at most as a European Union or, at the limit, as a Council of Heads of Government. Instead, we need to talk more about Europeans, because now the idea of keeping out is losing ground not only among Italians, but also in many countries, even far from the Mediterranean. As Senator Casini rightly pointed out, it is not even just from the Mediterranean that the wave of refugees comes. We know that, therefore, more and more distressing and even fearful concerns have spread and spread among Europeans. And we have to understand them. We not only can, we must understand them, but without surrendering to the emotional flows that can only lead us off the road. Then governments, which are very conditioned by these states of mind and by these increasingly widespread anxieties, must have the courage to tell the truth and take their responsibilities before Europeans. I believe that this is even more important than the resolutions that can be adopted tomorrow at the European Council. And this must be done, of course, and I hope that it is and will do so, even the Italian Government in front of the Italians. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF) and Senator Stucchi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u91	On this occasion, on behalf of the House, I would also like to congratulate you on your position as President of your Group, which you have taken on as of today. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Pagano and Rizzotti]] MARTON (M5S). Mr President, this morning in a self-harmful spirit, at the limit of masochism, I decided to listen to President Renzi, in his speech both in the House and in the Senate. I know, maybe it's crazy, but I wanted to do it. President Renzi was a businessman. It has touched all the values and emotions that the human being can experience. He touched Catholic roots, because he wanted to involve Catholics. He quoted poetic verses. He showed pictures of mothers in chains giving birth. He quoted 28 beheaded Christians in the House and 28 African brothers here in the Senate. 13:18 p.m. (Follows MARTON). He tried to shake his consciences and then tell us that we, the oppositions, are looking for votes. It seems to me to be an elusive attempt to hide a fear that he himself has. I'm afraid that's Renzi's problem. Come and do your nice senate rally to collect votes! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] In all this, however, how many acts have you produced? What real acts did you produce? He made a series of statements of intent. We're tired. We've been hearing statements of intent for two years, reading tweets and watching talk shows. He's always around doing the beautiful and bragging about interventions he hasn't done! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] I've heard Africa mentioned. Everyone mentioned it. We wonder whether we have investigated the reasons for the widespread malaise of Africa and its still present instability. Do you know how many conflicts there are in Africa? There are 13 of them. Do you know how many there are in the world? There are 33, and they are the official ones, because we forget those of Rwanda and Burundi. We forget states where there are no energy resources and which, of course, must be abandoned. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] This happens. We are hypocrites, and I say we mean the political class. The 5 Star Movement Group is estranged because, of course, we have written black on white what are our solutions to problems. [[Comments of Senators Cociancich and Cardinals.]] Let's stop, in the meantime, going to exploit those countries. We're the ones who create instability. It is we who have gone to create wars in certain places! And why did we do that? Because it was convenient to remove the dictator on duty! I heard President Napolitano speak of a new world order. Are you kidding me? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] And I heard the applause of the people in here! We create the world order! We must be ashamed of these words! And you also stood up and applauded. The new world order! With what right then? I am truly disgusted by certain words I have heard in this House. We have people in constant conflict for lack of water (Israel and Palestine) and people exploited for Coltan (the Congo). I can go on two and a half days with these things. If you go to check the reports of the Environmental Conflicts Documentation Centre, we are talking about more than 50 million - I repeat: 50 million - of possible immigrants from here to the next 30 years. We created them. We created 50 million. What is our solution? What do we propose? Stop the boats, upgrade Triton, return to Mare nostrum. Are these, in your opinion, the proposals we have to make? Or, instead, do they redistribute wealth among those peoples so that they no longer feel the need to leave? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We'd better. It's convenient because we exploit their lands. We also use their tyrants, because we'd better have guilty agents in our place. They do the dirty work for us, to guarantee us the warmth, the warmth of winter, except then abandon these people, don't they? I've also gotten tired of saying these things. By entering into the substance of the explanation of vote, we will ask for the split with reference to the vote on Resolution No 4 signed by the Senators of the PD, because we are absolutely not in the premises (actually, there are embarrassing sentences), except then have a generic device that we share. It was enough to put it also: we are in favour of peace in the world. Yes, we are in favour of world peace, for God's sake. There's one sentence that intrigued me, which is the following: "Aimed police operations". What does that mean? Let's get rid of some uncomfortable people in Libya so we can get back to oil and gas wells? What do you mean by targeted police operations? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Do you really want to create a humanitarian channel so that people are no longer exploited and helped? How? Who are you gonna kill with those police operations? [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] The scampisti? You're gonna get rid of the scafistas? You want to kill them? I've also heard of 1,200 arrests of boatmen. Where did you put them? I repeat: where did you put them? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have overcrowded prisons and you arrested 1,200 people to end up where? I think they're jokes, gentlemen. Let us face reality and make serious and concrete commitments. We review the Dublin Convention: we put it in writing, we go to Europe and we fight to see Dublin again and we will not go and try! We want seriousness and we are ready to give seriousness. We shall therefore vote in favour of the general commitments of motion for a resolution No 4, but against the premises, which are obscene and we shall abstain on all other motions for resolutions. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u94	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, when there are major international emergencies, our Group has always offered a clear and decisive contribution and commitment, in the supreme national and international interest: this, of course, when it was to the Government, in the majority, and even when it was to the opposition. So we understand the appeal that the President-in-Office of the Council made to Parliament today in view of tomorrow's summit. An important summit, we hope to be useful; we do not yet know it, but an extraordinary summit of Heads of State or Government at European level seems to me to have a precedent only after 11 September; therefore, it is undoubtedly an important occasion. The President-in-Office of the Council, in view of this deadline, hoped to meet in Parliament an oasis of confrontation and a wider majority. So, we're talking about this, these facts, that's all. Our judgment on the Government, even on these events, remains very critical, but of course we want to make a proactive contribution so that tomorrow Italy - as has been said in this House - has more strength and greater impact in the debate at European level. I must also say that we have not waited for this morning's debate. President Berlusconi, on Sunday afternoon, issued a statement in which he said that it was necessary to immediately set up a table among all the protagonists of past and present governments, where everyone can make available their experiences to put an end to these misfortunes: this is the moment of unity and action, not of divisions and conflicts. It is a position that has been publicly expressed, in line with the spirit that has always characterized our action, and I say that of Silvio Berlusconi personally, even in so many dramatic fringes of Italian life, both when he has been to the Government - and perhaps he has had less solidarity than he would have deserved - and today, when, with responsibility, he offers solidarity to this Government, also in the light of the experience of the man who has been most of all at the head of the Government of Italy, who has presided over three G8; which, even in the case of Africa and Libya, has demonstrated a greater capacity and more incisiveness than many others. We are, therefore, available to this effort. Moreover, we have put it in black and white in our motion for a resolution. We too want to appreciate the efforts of the Navy, the Coast Guard, those who are engaged, civil and military, on a dramatic frontier. We also want to show solidarity with all the common Italians, but above all with the Sicilians and the Calabrians, who every day see their cities and their ports welcoming and receiving loads of suffering and despair. That said, however, we would also like to point out on this occasion that a little more must be done. Council President Renzi went to the United States days ago. The mission has been said a lot about pats on the shoulders. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] We have read the qualities of the excellent Italian wines that have been brought, rightly, as we use, as a gift to Obama. But when President Renzi asked Obama for support on two issues, the sanctions against Russia - which are not on the agenda of our debate today - and the help for the Libyan affair, he got a courteous denial from the American President. So that mission, beyond the smiles and pats on the shoulders, ended in a failure. On the contrary, on sanctions against Russia Renzi was invited to convince Europeans to continue, and on Libya also drones - planes without people but capable of hitting - that had been asked, were denied. It may be argued that it was before the tragedy, but it does not seem to me that the United States has changed its attitude. I say this because many times this Government emphasizes the pats on the shoulders and hides the real disappointments of the positions. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] We say that we must deal with many things: the tragedy that has occurred with hundreds of victims - as Renzi said this morning - has obscured the cut heads that have been there (another 28) a few days ago; it has obscured so many events that we must not forget. Gentiloni also found out - I read it yesterday about the Messenger - that slave traffickers also finance terrorism: welcome, Minister Gentiloni, in this reality. After all, Gentiloni had already discovered that sometimes we need to talk to dictators in Africa and Asia because - alas - there is little in those parts of the world of democracy, and even the Arab spring has fueled more illusions than reality. I wish he had caused democracies to sprout! When, however, other governments have spoken with those who were there - bad Gaddafi, but much worse the caliphate that also in Libya is about to settle - when those governments have also discussed the problem of immigration to contain the flows, someone was arguing about Gaddafi's tent in Rome, which was very little; indeed, if it was used to control the migratory flows, let that kind of curtain come. We would therefore like to acknowledge the realpolitik which was conducted in the interest of Italy and which many have re-evaluated today. The West - mine is also a historical reflection, President Napolitano - perhaps has many times mistaken wars and peace. When the President-in-Office of the Council went to America the other day, President Obama told him that the troops will not withdraw from Afghanistan now, because if they withdraw now who knows what could happen. There was an attack a few days ago, the Taliban are affiliated - but the term is too kind - to ISIS and, therefore, the United States has informed us that they will remain for a while longer, and this seems to us a wise decision. This means, then, that we have mistaken wars and peace and, when the Berlusconi Government warned that Italy should not have participated in the war against Libya, perhaps many others, even here today, could have reflected more on that invitation to the realpolitik. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] Mistakes are paid. It is said that Gaddafi was bad, but now there is no government in Libya, so much so we would like to make naval blockades and other interventions, but we do not know who to interrogate with. It is true that there is the government of Tobruk, which is a little more recognized than others, but then one wonders how much it will command. We appreciate that the Government has shared the regulatory part of our motion for a resolution, which calls for the United Nations Security Council to adopt a resolution authorising targeted interventions in Libya. President Renzi spoke of targeted interventions in recent days, referring to the destruction of boats; Alfano spoke about it, who - fortunately - has stopped announcing requisitions of Italian houses to be used for illegals and said that we must sink boats and guarantee more security to our country; Mogherini said that traffickers are terrorists; Magris, who is not part of the Government, but is a well-known intellectual, in an editorial on the evening Corriere, proposed the court-martial for traffickers. We do not propose it, but we point out that there is now a chase in positions of severity which, when invoked by us, without even proposing a court-martial, were considered demagogic or instrumental in the electoral campaign. Let us also clarify this point, dear President Casini: we are not campaigning here, but we must all think together, and you have shown it, about the security of our country and also to prevent goodness from causing massacres. I think you can say that. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] Unfortunately, elections are always there and there are always massacres and disasters. We hope that the elections will continue, in the normal rhythms, and of course that the massacres will cease. We call for the Security Council to act in this direction. We ask that, in Italy, there be a national cohesion table for the immigration emergency, involving representatives of governments who have gained experience in the past and political forces of good will. The government gave a positive opinion. We are waiting for this generous willingness - I recalled President Berlusconi's statement on Sunday - to be taken. We also call on the United Nations Security Council - and also on this point the Government has expressed its support - to consider the desirability of adopting resolutions allowing the international community to apply measures in accordance with Articles 41 and 42 of the United Nations Charter. These two Articles allow the Security Council to introduce measures for the total or partial interruption of economic relations and of railway and maritime communications. Today, in a television interview, Minister Gentiloni asked what a naval blockade was. Therefore, I invite the Foreign Minister to read - but he can also tell you the authoritative Minister of the Interior - the Charter of the United Nations, where it says that links can be interrupted and, therefore, diplomatic relations can also be broken, where, of course, conditions apply. Articles 41 and 42 of the Charter also provide that, if the Security Council considers that the measures provided for in Article 41, which I have just mentioned, are inadequate or have proved inadequate, any action necessary to maintain or restore international peace and security can be taken by air, naval or land forces. Such action may include demonstrations, blockades and other operations by air, naval or land forces of members of the United Nations. It is the UN Charter, not the declaration of war made by who knows who. What we are asking is that our Government also invites the United Nations to assess whether these conditions are met. We are pleased that a favourable opinion has been expressed by the Government on the part of the provisions of our motion for a resolution. We also claim the premises, but we know that it is the disposition that counts. So we take note of this will, and we hope that tomorrow there will be positive results and this death market will end. The attorney in Palermo, sacred to all and to some even more sacred, said that a million people can come to Italy. The prosecutor of Palermo has discovered that to the Cara of Mineo, and not in the heart of Africa, there are people that organize traffics also in our Country, speculating on those that have arrived in Italy after having skinned them economically and, sometimes, also humanly in the transports. We take, therefore, note that our contribution finds a sharing, but we will be vigilant interpreters, in solidarity with the victims who have the right to hope, but above all to be helped also at their home, where the money that is wasted in Italy with cooperatives such as the one called "June 29" who knows how many jobs they would have created in Africa. Finally, appreciating that our contribution will be used, we do not recite poems, but we invoke international decisions adapted to the emergency we are experiencing. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u97	TONINI (PD). Madam President, representatives of the Government, fellow senators, when we are in a historical passage of the dimensions evoked before by President Napolitano and in the face of the gigantic dimensions of the human tragedy that has been consumed and that continues - alas - to consume itself in the channel of Sicily, I believe that a country like ours, so impregnated with the Mediterranean for its history and its geography, has the duty, in the diversity of positions that this debate has highlighted with absolute evidence, to find the maximum possible unity, in respect and also in the valorization of diversity. Unity, in fact, is never flattening on one voice, but it is confrontation, even controversy when it is necessary. For these reasons the Group of the Democratic Party, welcoming the openings of the Government, will not vote - of course - only the majority motion, but also the devices of the motions of the Forza Italia Groups and the 5 Star Movement. We are doing this because we are aware that, at the moment, all the reciprocal openings must be evaluated, because we are faced with a passage of great responsibility. I would like to say that, at this moment, we have three great responsibilities ahead of us. The first is to live up to the country we represent. 13:39 p.m. (Tonini followed). Of course no one alone can do this, but together we can live up to the country we represent, a country - as President Napolitano recalled before - crossed by anxieties and fears. We must also be able to represent this feeling. We must not easily demonize the anxieties and fears that cross the country. We must be able to give representation and voice to this sentiment, but of course also to the extraordinary generosity that our country is demonstrating, above all on the grounds of the professionalism of the Italian citizens who serve in the front line in the face of this emergency. It has already been said by everyone, and we cannot fail to say so too, that our military, volunteers, all this Italian State that we Italians often do not love (historically we Italians do not love our State), the servants of the State, on these occasions give the best of themselves and make us proud to be Italian and to have in some way competition to build our State with all its difficulties. We must then represent civil society, the people, and in particular the extraordinary people of Lampedusa. I was lucky, thanks to an initiative of a colleague, Senator Padua, to go to Pozzallo and I was impressed by the spontaneous generosity, matured and not simply emotional, of those people who took on themselves the weight of the first impact. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] They showed maturity and the desire to say: Italians, come and see what we do with conviction. We must be very close to those communities, giving them refreshment not only in economic terms, but also in closeness, help and support to their great and extraordinary generosity. First of all, we must be equal to this country we represent. Then there is a second aspect, which I only mention. Politics must be again an effort of intelligence of events. We have to try to figure out what's going on around us. The Mediterranean at this moment is the crossroads of three crises, of course very different from each other, but they cross in the waters of the Mediterranean. First of all, there is the third world war, as Pope Francis called it, which has as its epicentre the Arab-Islamic world. A hundred years ago, World War II was the epicentre of civil war between us Europeans. Today, world war is a civil war within the Arab-Islamic world. And this war is making hundreds of thousands of deaths and producing millions of displaced people and millions of people fleeing violence and persecution. Then there is Africa, as was mentioned today with great passion and intelligence by the President-in-Office of the Council. Italy wants to invest in the field of cooperation because we know that, only through that lever, we can prevent the tragedy from becoming uncontrollable and unmanageable. With an important reform that we did at the beginning of this legislature, we changed the name of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Of course, changing names is a small thing, but it is a symbol of an intention: we have called it the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation to say that, for those in the Mediterranean, foreign policy is cooperation and, above all, with Africa. Then there is the third crisis, that of Europe, which is struggling to find its convincing political and institutional structure. I am still quoting President Napolitano: without more political Europe, no European country will be able to face the dimensions of the global crisis in which we are immersed. Here, then, the third responsibility we have is to translate all this into politics, government acts and decisions. I believe that the Italian Government, the President-in-Office of the Council, its Ministers and - let me say this - also the High Representative for Foreign and Security Policy, Federica Mogherini, who has made efforts over time and bitterly, thanks also to the emotional drive that led to the tragedy of last Sunday - must at times be bitterly acknowledged that even so consciences, institutions and governments are moving - to finally put four fundamental points on the agenda of an extraordinary European Council. The President-in-Office of the Council summed them up, highlighting the ten points proposed by the European Commission. On these four points it is proposed to build a real attack strategy in relation to the problem. Of course, we must strengthen our commitment to research and rescue at sea, but knowing that it is not at sea that we can solve the problem of reception and humanitarian. The humanitarian catastrophe cannot be avoided and countered by letting the sea be the moment of encounter between us and them. Therefore, together with the strengthening of the Triton mission and, more generally, of our instruments of reception, research and rescue at sea, we must combat the phenomenon at its roots through a policy of negotiation and strict negotiations in Libya. Today there are significant openings of the Government of Tripoli that I think should be valued and that are a sign of hope compared to the future. The determined and firm contrast - everyone must know - we want to do it together with the Libyans, but if the Libyans do not quickly put themselves in a position to do so with us, we will be forced, as an international community, to intervene effectively. Finally, I would like to stress the idea of sharing the burden at European level, which is also an investment and a resource of openness on the future, of welcoming those fleeing from war and those fleeing persecution. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that is the spirit in which we are going to vote on these resolutions. Our country, which has so great a responsibility that it is a point of suture between Europe, Africa, the Middle East, the great Arab-Islamic world, only if united can it find its way and its role in the international community and in the world. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u100	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like clarification from the Government. Mr Secretary, I have heard that an opinion has been taken against the motion for a resolution No 1. I have often tabled resolutions with the trick, but this trick does not have any. Therefore, with regard to the device, I ask you on which of the two sides it is against or whether it is against both: I am referring to the part where we are talking about supporting in Europe the defence of the borders of the country and the part relating to the defence of the Jewish-Christian roots of Europe. Is your opposition on both points of the device? Otherwise, I would be willing to rephrase it or vote it for separate parts. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Government has already given its opinion. I should like to ask whether you are going to vote again on motion for a resolution No 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u101	The Government certainly intends to work on the issue of border protection, but within the framework of the Schengen area and that European cooperation and integration which is not indicated here, it is almost a unilateral initiative by Italy which I do not think is effective and appropriate for the success and success of the European Council. The second issue, Senator Calderoli, is not the subject of the European Council's agenda, so we cannot commit ourselves to this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u104	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am sorry, but I would like to speak in order to put the 'I' on the spot. In motion for a resolution No 1, the mechanism states: 'to support in this forum, i.e. in the European Council, therefore it is implicit that it cannot be a unilateral position of the country, but that it must be in the European Council instead. I therefore believe that this point can be accepted. Compared to the Jewish-Christian roots of Europe, in his speech - and even better so in the Chamber - the President of the Council made a reference to the attacks and murders of Christians. Otherwise, we can vote for the separate party mechanism, but it is clear that the defence of the borders to be dealt with in the European Council cannot, as the Undersecretary has said, be considered a unilateral initiative. My proposal is aimed at discussing it all together at European level. PRESIDENT. - The debate is However, the Presidency notes that the Government has reaffirmed its positions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u106	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u107	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to say that, contrary to what my Parent Company has said, I shall vote against all the other motions for resolutions tabled by the Groups. This is because I do not recognize the texts presented as a completeness which, on the other hand, had to be assumed with economic and political reasons. Although there is a vague reference in motion for a resolution No 4, signed by Zanda, Schifani and Zeller, to the solution of some crucial political issues in the Libyan area, I believe that the proposal put forward with our resolution goes in a much wider sense. For decades the Italian Government has delegated its foreign policy in that area of the world - from North Africa to Central Africa - to ENI society and this must be repeated. There are hot areas in that continent, first of all Libya, where in the first days of March the Italian Navy's military maneuvers were organized to cover the interests of the country, but above all of the Italian energy company; there are interests of the Italian energy company in Egypt and it was seen what happened in that country. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As you know, there are shorter deadlines for dissenting explanations of vote. Please finish. PETROCELLI (M5S). I'm finishing up. There are interests of the Italian oil company in the areas where the phenomenon Boko Haram has exploded. Now, that area of the world was animist and the interventions of the Italian company changed... president. You just have to tell us the dissenting vote; the other issue seems important to me but we cannot reopen the debate. PETROCELLI (M5S). President, your protection is incredible and frightening! We've already told you so many times: it's not your place, it's not your place. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u108	Don't worry about that.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u109	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mine makes sense. [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u110	We take note of your dissenting explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u111	[[Senator Petrocelli's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u113	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u114	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, only with regard to the mechanism of the Democratic Party's motion for a resolution, I do not feel that I am voting in favour of it, and I would like to say that I am not going to vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u117	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the split vote, as Senator Calderoli has already announced, on the mechanism of motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2) meaning as the first part the words to be supported in this context the defense of the borders of the country and the second part: "to support the defence of the Jewish-Christian roots of Europe."
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u120	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I, too, would like to ask for a separate vote on the motion for a resolution No 4, distinguishing between premise and device.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u121	I take note of your request and we will evaluate it in the course of the vote. Among other things, motion for a resolution No 4 was tabled by Senator Zanda and other senators and I do not know whether they agree with the split vote. Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Calderoli, up to the words 'confini del Paese' (confini del Paese). (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the second part of motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Calderoli, from the words 'to support defence' to the word 'European'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator De Petris and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 2 at the same time. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u124	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, since the House rejected our motion for a resolution, I would like to point out to the Government and to you that some parts of the motions for resolutions which will subsequently be put to the vote are not included: I would ask you to monitor carefully, otherwise something is not right. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Bignami and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u125	The motion for a resolution has not been voted on separately, but it has been voted on together, and this does not have a preclusive effect on the other motions for resolutions. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 3. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On motion for a resolution No 4, Senator Santangelo had requested a split vote. I ask Senator Santangelo, to be more precise, to specify his request.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u126	Mr President, I call for the motion for a resolution to be put to the vote by separate parties: the first being the premises, and therefore from the beginning to the words 'European foreign policy', and the second being the device, and therefore the words 'the Government' to the word 'territory'.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u127	As there are no comments from the authors, we shall therefore proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 4. We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller to vote by simultaneous ballot on the first part of motion for a resolution No 4, until the words 'European foreign policy'. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u130	D'ANNA (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). Mr President, I would like to warn those who are poorly telegenic, and therefore care about their image, that Senator Ciampolillo, more usual, is taking us back.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u131	This will give us more publicity, Senator D'Anna. I call on Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller to vote by simultaneous ballot on the motion for a resolution No 4, from the words "the Government" to the word "territory." (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 5, on which the Government has stated that it is against the premises and has put it back to the House. This clearly requires a split vote. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises of motion for a resolution No 5 tabled by Senator Marton and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Marton and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 5 by a simultaneous ballot. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u134	SANTANGELO (M5S). Sorry, Mr President, since I missed a passage, I would like to know who requested the separate vote of our motion for a resolution, so that it remains in the proceedings. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u135	The Government, having expressed a different opinion on the two sides.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u136	[[Senator Bottici's protests.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). No, the government didn't ask for a split vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u137	I looked at the Chamber and Senator Tonini gave me a consensus; moreover, the majority also voted in favour, otherwise they would have voted against. Senator Santangelo, the split vote, among other things, allowed the approval of the device; he should be pleased, otherwise he would have been rejected. He was in king ipsa. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] With regard to motion for a resolution No 6, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators, the Government is opposed to the premises, but in favour of the arrangement. If there is any doubt, I would like to make it clear that we must also vote separately in this case. I ask President Romani if he agrees, so that the different views of the Government can be verified. [[Senator Romani Paolo gave his consent.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u139	Senator Santangelo, you have the floor, but what do you mean? We are proceeding fairly logically.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u140	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to express my opinion against the split vote, where possible. I immediately pointed out to you: as the new Delegate of the 5 Star Movement Group, I would ask you to pay attention to my person in order to avoid any loss of time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There have been innovations that I have missed. Excuse me. SANTANGELO (M5S). I therefore wanted to declare my opposition to the proposal for a split vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You have therefore stated that you are opposed to this proposal, so now the House will vote to raise its hands on this proposal, which you do not believe you want to join. SANTANGELO (M5S). Forgive me, Mr President, but what part will you put to the vote by separate votes? Please specify that.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u141	The premises and the disposition part. The premises begin with the words "the Senate" and end with the words "a Country" and the second part begins with "the Government" and ends with the words "migrants." I put to the vote the request for a split vote on motion for a resolution No 6. It's approved. It seems to me that it is widely shared. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 6. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Romani Paolo and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on the first part of motion for a resolution No 6, up to the words 'a country'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the second part of motion for a resolution No 6, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators, from the words "the Government" to the words "migrants." (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I therefore suspend the sitting until 4.30 p.m., in order to comply with internal and international commitments. (The sitting was suspended at 2.04 p.m. and resumed at 434 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u142	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1577.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u143	The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the amendments submitted by the Assembly to the draft law on the basis of its own competence, gives an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution on proposals 7.330, 7.319, 7.339, 7.342, 7.343, 7.348, 7.349, 7.3351, 7.361, 7.362, 7.363, 7.366, 7.376, 7.380, 7.404, 7.417, 7.420 and 7.346 (text 2). The opinion is simply opposed to amendments 7.368, 7.405, 7.406, 7.414, 7.415, 7.425, 7.426 and 7.431. The opinion is also of simple opposition to proposal 7.331, provided that, pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Article 7 (2) is inserted at the end of the following period: "In accordance with Article 17, paragraph 2, of the Law of 31 December 2009, n. 196, the legislative decrees from which derive new or higher burdens are issued only after the entry into force of the legislative measures that allocate the necessary financial resources". As a revision of the previous opinion, it is simply contrary, provided that, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, the safeguard clause referred to in the previous paragraph is inserted on proposals 7.315, 7.316, 7.317, 7.318, 7.320, 7.332, 7.333 and 7.334. The opinion on proposal 7.313 is also revised, which is of simple opposition. The opinion is not precluded on all remaining amendments to Article 7. The opinion on the amendments to Articles 8 at the end of the debate is suspended.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u144	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u146	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business. I would ask you if it is possible to set aside Article 7, precisely because the Government is invited to assess more the opportunity to eliminate, merging it into a police force, the State Forestry Corps. There are so many amendments on this subject, tabled by almost every group. We are obviously opposed to the suppression of the State Forestry Corps, precisely because we believe that it is a body that really works on the territories, a body that manages to give usefulness to the country through controls. It is today the news, that we have read from the agencies, according to which there has been a maxi-operation, carried out precisely by the forest guard, which affects as many as four Italian Regions (Latium, Campania, Tuscany and Abruzzo), on the repression of the traffic of toxic waste. We would like a draft law on this subject to be considered. We therefore ask that paragraph 1 (a) of Article 7 be removed. If this is not possible, we ask for a little more reflection and we ask that the unity of the body and its peculiarities remain. As far as expenditure is concerned, which President Renzi uses as a justification for this cut he wants to make, from five to four bodies, I would like to say that there is no savings, because about 95% is produced by the staff, who, as is said in the plant, will be absorbed. Why, then, President, take away from our country that body that has nevertheless given strength to our state? I would ask, Madam President, that Article 7 be put aside, precisely so that we have time to make a little more thought. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senators Bignami and Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u147	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u149	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, I agree with Mr Pelino's request because there has been a fairly widespread view from the speeches in the general debate that it might be necessary for the Government to give further consideration to Article 7 in order to submit, for once, to a will widely expressed by Parliament. To ask to reflect on Article 7 is therefore appropriate, since many colleagues of the majority, in addition to all oppositions, have expressed their opposition to the abolition of the State Forestry Corps. This is all the more so in the light of the fact that the colleagues of the Per le Autonomie Group have expressly requested, and obtained, the maintenance of the regional forest bodies, which is why I would also ask them to push for a reflection so that, in the same perspective of the maintenance of those bodies, which have their own reason to exist, the Forest Corps of the State will also be maintained for all the other regions. I therefore call on you to reflect on this position, which has been widely discussed and supported in the context of the general discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u150	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u152	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I would also like to support the request for the provision of Article 7, as I had already allowed myself to say to President Zanda yesterday. I would like to remind everyone that today is also World Earth Day, since we do so many celebrations, and the issue we are dealing with has a lot of relevance to the earth (that of our country) and poses very sensitive issues. The data to be discussed and considered are many, because this Assembly must know that, on the one hand, the proposal is made to rationalise, to merge into another police, and in fact to suppress, the State Forestry Corps - then in the DEF there is confusion between the police and the police - on the other hand, the Commission has voted, however, the permanence of all the regional forest bodies of the autonomous regions. These are elements that may well be added to this debate, on which we really allow ourselves to ask for an additional thought. Already environmental crimes are going through another bad season in the House; we would not want, with this hasty decision, the situation to be further complicated in this poor, unfortunate country, which - I would like to remind you - is also one of the most beautiful in the world because the Lord, despite all the damage we have done, helped us. Let's try not to break down all the principals, to continue to keep what little we have that allows us to prosecute all environmental crimes. I therefore strongly call for further reflection in order to allow for a more calm and articulated reasoning. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government whether they have an opinion on this or whether we can move forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u153	Madam President, I believe that this issue has been discussed extensively in the Commission, so from my point of view, I believe that the investigation has been carried out. I think I can only make this kind of assessment, considering that we can deal with the debate in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u154	I'm guessing the government has a consistent opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u155	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u157	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask you in advance to check the quorum for the next vote. IN THE CHAIR: MR GALLAND The Presidency takes note of this for when we proceed to the vote on the amendments. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 7, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u158	Madam President, I am very sorry that the proposal to set aside Article 7 for more careful consideration of the subject of the State Forestry Corps has not been accepted. We have tabled a number of amendments on this subject, which, of course, are intended to substantially change the decision taken on this measure, because one point must be clear to everyone: the reflection that we could have done more calmly, and that we were allowed to do even in the debate in the Commission, is that it is clear to everyone that we could find a way to proceed to a just and sacrosanct reorganization of the Forestry Corps, which from our point of view must start from the possibility of making a further qualitative leap, that is to say, creating a real environmental police force. It was the opportunity to make this reasoning, because there are also all the provincial Police, that almost all have an exclusive competence, and therefore they had to specialize also in the environmental field, and one could make a reasoning of reorganization and diffusion even more widespread on the territory. This kind of reasoning, on the other hand, did not want to take into account, with the only purpose - even this time of a purely demagogic nature - not only without a construct, but in this case also with a destructive effect, to be able to say that we are going from five police bodies to four. Personally, I absolutely agree that the whole system of police should be reviewed, because there is an overlap of tasks between the different Corps, but the overlaps of stronger tasks are between the two main bodies, that is between Police and Carabinieri, between which rationalization is necessary and the possibility of logistic exchanges. That is the fundamental problem, which the Minister has never answered. There are situations in the hinterland and in the small centers where there is now only one station of the Carabinieri, with one or two military. I am thinking, for example, of my territory, particularly the Municipality of Pereto, in the province of L'Aquila, where the station of the Carabinieri has to deal with five or six other municipalities, and where at the same time there is the great railway station, but if anything happens there is only that poor carabiniere available. The two bodies, among other things, have almost always the same competences, so it was there that the possibility of rationalization and reorganization had to be concentrated. The truth, however, is that as always you are very strong with the weak (in this case with the Forestry Police, which is the last body by number of men) and you are very weak with the strong. The President of the Council wants to do the tweet, but nobody wants to put their hands on the fact that 200,000 people could work better, because between the police and Carabinieri these are the numbers. We have 60,000 agents of the Finance Guard and perhaps even with respect to this body we could intervene, reviewing everything. This was to say that the issue was not to be dealt with in this delegation, but on the subject a general reasoning had to be made, precisely in view of the possibility of rationalization and reorganization in order to give more services to the citizens. Then there is another fundamental issue. Usually it tends to bring together those who do more or less the same things, so there is an overlap, not those who do different things. Over the years, the State Forestry Corps has been specialized more and more - including with a very important technical preparation - in the pursuit of environmental and agri-food crimes, as well as in the protection of biodiversity: I want to remind everyone that it is the Forestry Corps that manages the parks and reserves. Then I don't know if due to problems of logistic rationalization - as someone told me - the police need the barracks of the Forest inside the parks: I don't know, maybe they have to organize the colonies for the children, if they still use! Not to mention, then, a whole series of merits that the State Forestry Corps has acquired in the field. I am thinking, for example, of the story of the Land of Fires, to which the merit is proper of the Forest Body of the State, since others have not seen or have pretended not to see. Understood? I do not forget so many other interventions carried out by the Forest Corps in a country like ours in which three environmental crimes are committed per hour and in which in 2014 - data of the Report on Eco-Health - there has been a very strong increase in crimes in the field of agri-food. This is not about being beautiful souls who like to preserve the territory and beauty, because what we are talking about also has an economic impact: we are talking about a whole series of values that we should preserve for the survival of this country's biodiversity. What do we do instead? With the only rationalization operation planned it is going to hit the Forestry Corps: it is automatic that the amalgamation within the Police will end up completely dilute the competences and specificities of the Forestry Corps and certain interventions will lose effectiveness. Will it be a case or not that Franco Roberti, head of the National Anti-Mafia Public Prosecutor, invites us to pay attention to all this, because certain interventions are fundamental for certain investigations, which today need specialization? Have you heard of the eco-aphies or not? It is an area in which specialization is necessary, since general preparation in other fields is not sufficient. The risk, in fact, is that when there are staffing problems these agents will end up managing public order. I used to say that people who do more or less the same things usually come together. President, let us assume that you are being robbed in your home: I hope not, but what would you do? Would you have a conference with your husband to decide whether to call the police or the carabinieri? No. She'd call the first number she could think of. With regard to services to citizens and efficiency, a very important intervention, on which Europe has called us several times, is, for example, the creation of the single number for emergency calls: this is not, however, the case, while action such as the one we are considering is envisaged. What am I supposed to think? What does a government show when it threatens the possibility of approving, after twenty years, the bill on environmental crimes, because it must obey the lobby of oil companies - to which we give our seas for a little money - and pervicaciously continues to go on, putting themselves in a suspicious way, with the intervention on the Forest Corps? We can only deduce that clearly we want to remove and render harmless the very Body that pursues those crimes. Evidently there are other interests in the field, because the numbers speak clearly and I repeat them: we are talking about 8,000 units. The paradox of the paradox is that in the first Commission... [[Brusio. Recalls of the President]] I'm sorry, I can't talk to that noise anymore. I said that the paradox of all this, in order to save, to rationalize, is that the National Corps will in fact be suppressed, merged, while the bodies of the Autonomous Regions will continue to exist and from the numerical point of view are more than the National Corps, so it will end that the Provincial Police will become regional police and so, to do this rationalization operation, we will eventually find 15 regional policemen plus six of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces. Does this seem like a rationalization and efficiency operation to you? I can clearly only confirm the initial suspicion, that is to say that we want to strike there because this Government and this majority perhaps have no intention of going to the end in preserving this territory and in striking environmental crimes. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u159	Madam President, I would like to explain Amendment 7.355, which provides only for the deletion of Along with what many have said, the absorption of the State Forestry Corps into other police bodies today is only a flagship battle to be able to say with a tweet that goes from five to four and does not have a valid underlying motivation. The Minister's motivation is that it is the smallest body (there are only 8,000 units), so it is the easiest to combine: it is a numerical motivation because it was necessary to give this type of signal. Attorney Roberti raised the alarm, but he didn't do it alone; so many citizens did, there were petitions online. We ask for the last effort; it is the last call we make to avoid depriving this country of this force, of this body that has shown a closeness to the territories that others have not demonstrated. Finally, I would like to ask why Mr Martina is not here. I would therefore like to know, at this time when the State Forestry Corps, which is dependent on Minister Martina, will be deprived of 8,000 units, of a police force for agricultural policies, why the Minister has not spent a word and is not here today to explain the reasons why he accepts this approach. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u160	I remind all the Groups - and therefore also the 5 Star Movement - where we are with the times.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u161	Madam President, Amendment 7.337, which I am going to present, bears the first signature of my colleague, Mr Crimes, but I have firmly signed it because it wants to prevent the significant weakening of State prevention and repression in the areas of environmental security, food and conservation of the natural heritage. If this amalgamation of the State Forestry Corps is carried out to other police forces that have a very different specificity, which is that of repression, as established in this bill, the specificity of the Forestry Corps, which is a force highly specialized in the fight against environmental crimes, as the colleague also said. It is unreasonable to think of giving up these specific tasks. The rationalization of resources, which is given as a motivation, seems to be mostly an excuse because, in reality, the amalgamation would not cover all the national territory, since some regions, such as Sicily, are excluded. Colleagues, let us bear in mind that there is a confusion because, in reality, the 30,000 forests of Sicily do not belong to the Forest Corps: they are workers paid by the Region, which would remain paid by the Region. The same thing also happens in Calabria. Here the Forest Corps is present only with 600 units and there are three national parks. This rationalization and saving is not effective. I would not like the Government to have decided to award private contracts for certain functions pertaining to the Forestry Corps. The 5 Star Movement with amendment 7.337 calls for the safeguarding and strengthening of the prerogatives and specificities of the Forest Corps of the State and the service they carry out. You don't have to remember the land of fires again. On the website www.change.org a petition was launched against the amalgamation of the Forest Corps and was signed by 60,000 citizens, numerous associations and public figures such as Settis, but also by politicians and national representatives belonging to different political forces such as Forza Italia and the Democratic Party itself. I hope that there will be a consistent vote in this House in favour of this amendment. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u162	Madam President, the G7300 agenda proposes to coordinate the legislative decrees resulting from Article 7 of this draft law. As we know, in Article 7 the Government is delegated to a reorganization of offices, but there has already been a delegation that goes in this direction even with the accounting law of 2009, reiterated in 2014, which always delegates the Government to restructure offices and directions compatible with the structure of the state budget. There is, therefore, also a legislative decree in this area. There is therefore a danger that I would like to draw the attention of the House and the Government to the fact that these two legislative decrees (one arising from the structure of the budget and the other from the reform of the public administration) are not coordinated: at this point they would result in discrasies and overlaps. The agenda therefore calls for a single legislative decree responding to both delegations. This would allow a more effective organisation because, at this point, the offices would correspond to certain missions and expenditure programmes of the budget and, above all, would give the entire structure of the State a greater readability and a better opportunity to assess performance. The agenda, therefore, essentially commits the Government to coordinating two legislative decrees which come from two different sources, but which essentially deal with the same subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u163	Madam President, within the framework of the forecasts of the reorganization of police functions in the field of environmental protection, land and sea and in the field of safety and controls in the agro-food sector, in order to a series and concrete - I repeat, serious and concrete - spending review, we share the need to reorganise the State Forestry Corps, as well as urgent for the good of the country to operate a serious rationalization of the whole sector of the Forces of order, avoiding overlaps for the strengthening of the effectiveness of the police functions. But we do not like - I repeat, we do not like - the forecast contained in Article 7 of the bill about the possible amalgamation of the State Forestry Corps, because apparently in the head of the government the amalgamation is not only an eventuality, but it is now a decision already taken, and the State Forestry Corps is the sacrificial lamb for the demagogic campaign of the Premier, who often says he wants to reduce from five to four the police forces, dealing, with a tweet, a reduction in quantitative terms of 20 percent. The reality of numbers is quite different, as the previous speaker said. The State Forestry Corps has a workforce of 7,500, compared to a total of 306,000 people in the security sector. We are talking not of 20%, in the reduction from five to four forces, but of 2.5%. Frankly, it is absurd to think of merging the Forest Corps of the State and want to leave the Regional Forestry Corps, which count within them 3,000 operators. The confirmation also comes from Minister Madia's tweet, which says: Assorting the Forest strengthens the defense of nature and animals: it simplifies the chain of command, streamlines bureaucracy and enhances professionalism. But are you so sure of what you wrote, Minister Madia? Beyond the prejudice that you may have on the opinions of civil society and environmental associations, and apart from the menephregism of the statements of some majority senators, of the New Right Centre and of the Democratic Party, who have declared themselves opposed to the amalgamation, but which inevitably will have to be aligned with the Diktats of Prime Minister Renzi, we also worry about what authoritative representatives say, such as the National Anti-Mafia Attorney, who raises a worrying alarm, because he says that you cannot lose specialized people who do excellent control of the territory. Last week, Minister Madia, I was in Sicily with the Committee of Inquiry into the waste cycle, where there is the environmental disaster of the petrochemical plant in Gela. The head of the Public Prosecutor of Gela complained about the scarce forces he has in the judicial police office, and said that fortunately he had with him three good operators of the State Forestry Corps who helped him in the investigations, while he complained about the total absence of personnel of the Regional Forestry Corps, mentioned above and that his Government wants to maintain; he also complained about the presence of 200-300 forest, which are something else, in the office of Mazzarino, considered more like an employment office. But, as is well seen in the bill, the government does not want to think about these problems and these inefficiencies. In short, Minister Madia, if you, with Prime Minister Renzi, really want to cancel and suppress the Forest Corps of the State, the contrast to eco-reactors, agri-food fraud, animal mistreatment and poaching and the prevention of hydrogeological failure will, from tomorrow, have the weapons sprung up. You must take responsibility for this. It is truly absurd that you should boast that you have launched a bill in the Senate which aims to combat crime against the environment. Certainly, as first steps, you are mistaken. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u164	Madam President, with regard to the article on the reorganization of the State Forestry Corps, we have tabled an amendment which I believe is of common sense, 7,370. Since we all know that it is necessary to avoid a further increase in public expenditure, that the staff employed in the State Forestry Corps in some areas of the country is in excess and that a reorganization is certainly necessary and must also be thought of safeguarding existing professionalism and trying to resolve the situation taking into account the peculiarities of the Country, with our amendment we place the emphasis on the need to arrive at a gradual reduction of staff. This must certainly be done, and we must all realise that, in order to avoid a further increase in public debt, which is becoming increasingly unsustainable, this is a necessary step. However, the common sense solution that we propose is to parameter its presence on the territory according to the density of the population and the extension of the wooded areas present in some regions rather than in others. Certainly, in fact, the situation of the North of the Country or of other Regions, in which the wooded part is more important and pre-eminent, in the presence of certain peculiarities, is not found in other parts of the Country and, in reality, the supernumber of staff employed is exorbitant. I therefore believe that the adoption of this amendment, which I am putting to the attention of the rapporteur and the Government, can, at least for the time being, give a measure of common sense to deal with the problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u165	Madam President, I am speaking because my opinion - summarized in a series of amendments and on an agenda - goes in a direction which is substantially opposite to the one set out in the speeches that have been made so far. I believe that at the root of our country's difficulties there is a difficulty in adapting to the world that has changed. This morning we took note, during the debate, that the international order we inherited from World War II, as well as the way we produce and work, is essentially unrecognizable; yet we continue to repeat that in Italy certain things cannot be done because our country is different. This applies to the second part of the Constitution, to justice, to the detachment of our school system from world best practices, and I could continue. Public administration is the emblem of this inability and difficulty to change. Specifically, the issue of police forces retraces the same pattern. More or less, in all the countries of the European Union there is a police force for the widespread control of the territory and one for the fight against the great crime. In Italy there are five different and autonomous police forces, not to mention the Harbour office and the Coast Guard, the municipal police, the provincial police, often competing with each other and each in charge of taking care of everything, well beyond their specialization. To understand us, they are all forces at the disposal of the prosecutors and it happens that even the Regional Forestry Corps is in charge of investigations and interceptions. This is with the result that Italy is first among the European countries for the number of public forces in charge of compliance with the law in relation to the population. The consequence is that, by spending three points of GDP, or 30% more than Germany, we get results far below those of the others. As usual, the response to the need for security for citizens so far has favoured quantity over quality. What is missing is the desire to address the nodes that prevent the effective and efficient use of our agents, starting with the diversification of tasks: the fact that everyone tends to take care of everything, with responsibilities that are woven up to paralyze, obviously feeds the dispersion of resources. But, as usual, reforms in Italy are blocked by those who believe that the security model inherited from the past is the best in the world and is untouchable. It's an old story: isn't our Constitution the most beautiful in the world? The same goes for justice and for the things we know. Yet our security model is not at all efficient (the operational results produced are not proportional to expenditure), it is not well coordinated (there are frequent duplications and overlaps of skills) and competition is not healthy at all, but it translates into a spasmodic race to appear on newspapers and on television. We are in the presence of old, gigantic, ultraburocratic and poorly coordinated apparatuses, in eternal and harmful competition between them, which are still held only thanks to the good will of that large part of the staff, who every day makes the jumps mortal. The measure under discussion provides for the rationalisation and reinforcement of police functions, also in the light of improved cooperation on the ground. The reorganization of the State Forestry Corps and its possible absorption among the other police forces are also timidly expected. There are those who tear their clothes apart, of course, but I think otherwise and I believe that we must move forward with greater determination, because postponing the reforms was a mistake of the past, which we have paid hard in our country so far. We must move forward, of course in line with what is being done throughout Europe, moving forward one step at a time, but why wait? Why can the reordering of the sea police forces, for example, not be done through the exclusive assignment of functions to the Coast Guard? Why, with regard to the reordering of the provincial police force, in any case exclude the confluence of the police forces? Why not take the opportunity to make the delegation more effective? Why not then, during the implementation phase, of course proceeding one step at a time, the rationalization of the existing forces, identifying in perspective two police forces, one for the fight against the great crime and one for the control of the territory? The stones also know this: a profound transformation of Italy is necessary and we must seize the opportunity of the crisis, as we have said a thousand times, in order to trigger a process of alignment with the best European standards. We must change: I say this to the Government and to all of us who have participated in the reform phase and in the battle to reform our Constitution. We need to change: everyone can expect the government to face the reform of public administration with the same determination with which it faced the reform of the Senate. I would like to remind everyone that we have closed the old Senate, because we have to change, adapt to other European systems and overcome bad habits. But this must be the case for everyone: we now have an opportunity to take a step forward in this area as well. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u166	Madam President, we have asked for the provision of Article 7, but the Government has not made itself available, even if, in essence, it is precisely what we asked for. The measure has many articles and we do not want to slow down its discussion, but we had put forward that request in order to arrive in a transparent way at a decision that can arrive, as a subordinate, at a point of synthesis between our thesis and others. We are opposed to the incorporation of the State Forestry Corps into other police forces, for reasons shared by many colleagues from the most diverse groups, and I believe that this should also make the Government aware of a widespread sensitivity and a cross-cutting objectivity of the problem. Then, specifically - as several colleagues have said and as I repeat to those who in recent days have chanted to the amalgamation of the police forces - we are also convinced that President Renzi must be able to say in some way that the police forces of five become four and that the Forest Corps, numbering 8,000 people, can be subjected in some way to certain measures with less inconvenience than not intervening on the Guardia di Finanza or - God forbid - on Carabinieri and Police (a proposition that someone still occasionally expresses and sees us very opposed). We have multiple uncertainties, and I repeat this to our colleagues because this is not just a question of territorial lobbying, but an objective one. We have a provincial police who do not know what will happen (it is similar to the Forest Corps of the State, but it is basically a hunting police, which could indeed be inserted, this yes, within it). We have special status realities, which will maintain forest police, so there will be an imbalance. I would also like to reiterate here that the so-called forest workers have nothing to do with this: that is another story, in which often waste, customerism and events all to be clarified have manifested themselves, especially in some regions of Italy. We are talking here instead of a police force, the State Forestry Corps. I have already said in this House that I have read with dismay statements by qualified members of the majority of this group: We will put them either in the Carabinieri or in the State Police, but the first is a military-type organization, while the second is a demilitarized police, so the State Forestry Corps cannot go into a military corps, since it is demilitarized, and there is confusion with respect to the merits it has matured. Someone has just mentioned the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy Martina, who is not here in the Chamber and who praised the State Forestry Corps a few days ago: well, what are these praises for? Where does the State Forestry Corps go in the State Police? And what will it be used for, to maintain public order, if ever in stadiums, or other things? Or do you have to watch over the parks, for which conventions have been signed, or do you have to go to the land of fires to protect the crops, so also the whole food supply chain and therefore our life and our health? I don't have to decant here in a further way the merits and popularity of the State Forestry Corps. It has to be reorganized, it is said. We asked for this provision with the following intent, and I would like to draw the rapporteur's attention. In this regard, I would like to describe what is happening in Parliament: the rapporteur, Senator Pagliari, is negotiating with certain groups a reformulation of certain amendments. Instead of doing this work, which offends Parliament, we will then return to the Commission, leaving this article aside, and we will work with the participation of all, and not with this market, which is happening, Mrs Fedeli, in front of you! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] We also agree to consider other hypotheses: do we put the State Forestry Corps entirely inside another police force, maintaining its unity, so it will not go to deal with public order or the fight against counterfeiting of artistic heritage, but will continue to do what it has to do? If this is to be achieved, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, then we shall vote on Articles 8 and 9, because there are so many of them, while we shall see whether the amendments that many have tabled to Article 7 can also be reworded by finding a solution that I described as a subordinate at the beginning of my speech. Otherwise, do we have to put bugs to hear what Senator Pagliari says (that I respect and always work seriously, as rapporteur)? However, I would also like to see respect for a debate that we have had many times. Therefore, as you can see, it is not that we say that, if we do not do so, who knows what will happen, but we ask to consider that there is a widespread sensitivity, as evidenced by the fact that many colleagues of the Democratic Party have spoken in the debate, colleagues of the New Right Centre who are part of the majority have at heart the affair and President Marinello is the bearer of several proposals. Let us then make it a common reason for reflection and it may be that a solution is found that has as its objective the defense not of Titus or Caius, but of a professionalism that, if it must be maintained, can be relocated also in other context, but preserving its vocations, functions, professionalism and specificity. This will explain to us the conventions on parks and activities in the agri-food field. Every day, from morning to evening, I read about Expo and agri-food. A lot of money is spent on advertising on the Expo; more money has been spent on advertising than on jobs, obviously, because jobs are late while advertising is pounding us all over the place. Gro-food is so important that we dedicate the Expo to what we eat, what we cultivate and this type of argument. The Forest Corps of the State, on the other hand, is a small piece of this supply chain of the environment and the territory. I shall then renew the request, Madam President, and address it to the Government as well. There must be a solution that guarantees the functionality, safety and protection of the staff, which will not be fired but reorganized, so that the reorganization does not create a problem, a confusion, a cost and a virtuous fact. You don't have to slide to know that there were five police forces and that we took them to four. And this is at times when everyone is washing their mouths in various ways and with various concerns, some even much more serious than the ones we are dealing with. We therefore call for the provision of Article 7, which serves to prevent the continuation of what I think is continuing, because it is not serious to act in this way. You, too, tell the government, in your momentary role as President of the House, that this provision would be much more serious and I assure you that we would be wasting much less time in this way. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u167	Senator Gasparri, I think it is important to explain the amendments in the meantime.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u168	Madam President, the government is clarifying to all Italians, step by step measure, what is its true face and on which side it is; I believe that a lot of its electoral heritage is being played and that it is being eroded, because people, even those who did not understand, are beginning to understand. With this article 7, the government is really losing a lot of support, because we know how much people care about the Forest Corps. Let's give a few numbers: 29,274 infringements detected in 2013. Over 80 a day. More than three an hour. Most of these covered the agri-food sector: as much as 25% of the total, with 9.540 crimes, more than twice as much as in 2012, when they were 4.173. On the other hand, 22 per cent of the infringements affected fauna; 15 per cent of the waste; 14 per cent of the cement cycle. The turnover of environmental crime, always very high, despite the crisis, has reached almost 15 billion. I'm sorry about Senator Crimes, but it's not the click, it's not bringing five to four police forces. It is in these 15 billion the real reason why the Forest Corps of the State must be merged! Although the turnover of environmental crime is 15 billion per year, the State Forestry Corps has found 10,000 environmental infringements last year, while the State Police has only found 65. This is the real reason why you want to absorb the Forest Corps in the State Police: because it is not a specialist body. That is the true and only reason. I remember the phone call in which Di Gennaro, Bertolaso's collaborator, told me, as far as the waste of Campania was concerned, to remove the men of the NOE and the Forest Corps, because it could not proceed. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I have bad thoughts and I do not believe in good faith, also because the reasons that are being made do not hold. They don't keep the reasons that the Minister Madia brings when she says we're gonna bring them together because they're the smallest body. It is not a reason that has a structural validity; it is not a reason because there is no saving. We have repeated this many times, but I still want to repeat it because the Forestry Corps costs - yes - 30 million euros per year, but collects 28 million euros per year. It will take 25 million instead to make this transition. So, we're not talking about savings. I repeat: we are not talking about savings. We also know - they have already said this, but this is also something I want to repeat - that 8,000 people are in the State Forestry Corps, but 28,000 are only the forests of the Sicilian Region. Yet that is an electoral basin and you do not touch it. It's a waste! I repeat: it is a waste of public funds. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We must understand - we have already understood - the government on which side it stands. The Italians must understand the government's side. Meanwhile, the provision on environmental crimes is in danger to the Chamber of Deputies and the environmental link has been lying here for months and has not been going on: very important articles have been removed by the Government and other measures that had nothing to do with a bill of a certain dignity have been violated. Again - we must remember - there has been the so-called Italy unlock: I remember the eight-month time window, pending the transposition of Directive No 35 of 2004 in order to favor the oilers. This is Renzi's bad environmentalist, because words alone matter nothing: they matter only the facts. I repeat: the facts. The facts are these. We - all of us in this House - know how to rationalise, coordinate and save money. The proposals are in these amendments that you will reject! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] [[Apostrophe and offensive gesture of Senator Nugnes. Lively protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u169	Calm down, Senator, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u170	Senator, I'm gonna call you back because you don't do that. Please. Senator Amidei asked for the floor. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I also ask the Senators and Senators of the Democratic Party to listen because, in the face of the gesture that Senator Nugnes has made, I have taken it back and reported it. If you know the Rules of Procedure, you know what that means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u171	Mr President, I am speaking after this incident, but let us also talk about amendments and the problem that has raised those who have preceded me. As Senator Gasparri rightly said, there is no respect for Parliament and the Senate here. I would add that - alas - lucidity has been lost. There has been no respect for Parliament since - for more than two years now - questions and questions have not been answered. This is an ignoble thing, which I denounce now and not at the end of the sitting of this House, when no one listens to us! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I was forced to present an interrogation but there is no answer to the interrogations, in contempt of the senators' role. There's no answer to that either. It is a shame and we are talking here about amendments! [[Senator Caliendo's applause]] But what do you care about the amendments? What do you care about the State Forestry Corps? What do you care about the provincial police? At this point, eliminate everything, so save. But do you know the value of the Forest Corps or the provincial police (which is the subject on which I tabled an amendment)? Once these roles have been abolished, who do you think I'm playing them? We are talking about role in the territory, control over hunting, fishing, infringements and the environment, and protection of the territory. Who do you think I am? This happens in a saving logic that ultimately does not exist. But is that how you administer it? Is this the way in which this Senate and this Parliament have a role to play? Therefore, once again, I will be forced to cash in the denial on what should instead be common sense choices and that there are no. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u172	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put to you a question that is a litmus test of what we heard earlier about the State Forestry Corps. I'm talking about the combination announced and taken back between PRA and DMV. The impression is that what is needed for the electoral consensus will come together if it bothers and keeps itself comfortable. A year ago, this article came out: This is how the government managed to save the ACI wagon from collapse. The decree on spending review provided for the abolition of the PRA, a hidden tax of 200 million per year. But last Friday the norm was paraded at the last minute, escaping the powerful club from the debacle. Thanks also to the good offices of Minister Lupi, candidate for Europeans and careful not to lose votes in his Milan. This was written by "L'Espresso" (L'Espresso), not a warhead near us. I say then: today that Minister Lupi is no longer there, perhaps we will be free to do the right thing. Instead, even in this delegation the government first announced that it wanted to do this thing and then took it back. Predicting that there is convergence, even through interoperability, what does that mean? It means that you leave things as they are and simply put the archives in a position to communicate. It's a very small advantage. It's like I tell my wife that we have two cars and that, because I work during the day and she works at night, we use one at most and so we can buy a car that is multifunctional and save money. No, the only thing we can do is share the telepass. It's not like that. It can't be. The ACI costs us 200 million a year and it is - as the same article says later - a tank of armchairs and an electoral fief. We cannot take this opportunity back, after twenty years and after the umpteenth announcements. There are a number of amendments, ours and other groups, which call for a direct, clear and unambiguous line in the direction of saving citizens and abolishing pockets of privilege, always safeguarding employees, who are not guilty of this state of affairs and have rights. If we want to continue to regard ACI as a public body, as public bodies must be subject to reorganisations and to those modes of mobility that allow real savings, of which today we absolutely need. The government should be consistent at this point, because otherwise this policy of announcements then taken back in the long run is discovered and goes against it as well. I therefore ask the Government and colleagues, when it comes to voting, to evaluate this aspect too, doing something on the substance and also from a strategic point of view that can benefit the image of this institution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u173	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the G7 102 agenda (text 2) wants to highlight, also through the reconstruction of the activity of the Forestry Corps (which we have reported), the need to strengthen the control and protection system of the agri-food sector in this country, as several colleagues have said. A country, ours, made up 70% of mountains and hills, which has the highest number of certified products, with 147 natural and state reserves, of which 130 are guarded by the Forest Corps and, precisely for this great heritage, more exposed to the risks of fraud and counterfeiting of food production, illegal activities and criminal infiltration in the environmental sectors: from the maladministration of waste to polluting practices to the illegal trade of animals. Such a country, characterized by its environmental and landscape context, while preparing for the reorganization of the police forces, must certainly provide a structure dedicated to the management and control of the territory; a specialized structure on the topics, as has been said, agri-environment. You want to implement a real reform, and not just a spending review action. Reforming in these areas really means having the courage and intellectual honesty to recognize and predict less and less generic functions, less and less of all, but, on the contrary, specializations that allow a highly professional approach to environmental and agri-environmental safety; more close coordination, then, between specializations; no self-referentiality. We in this country are sick of self-referentiality and today being self-referential means creating inefficiencies. We have to say that, as Mr Maran said. Specializations and network systems: this is what we need; this is what our country needs. This is also the way to enhance and update the functions of a forestry body that has matured skills, high professionalism, deep environmental culture; an ability also to prevent the care of the territories. For this reason, within a process of rationalization and reorganization, the Forestry Corps must have an authoritative centrality and must be the protagonist in the relaunch of a new system. We consider this to be the first stage of a reform of the police force, and not the only one. We do not want to launch ourselves in a defense tout court of the existing one; it would not be fair, because we all know that in order to face the increasing criticalities that concern the environment and food, dynamics that are now global in character, we need to strengthen systems and organization; we need to refine means and technologies. Nothing can be static, let alone in this area, let alone in this time. We adapt to the increasing complexity; we also change organizational arrangements, but to strengthen not to weaken. Precisely for this reason, do not think to dilute the functions of protection, control and prevention of the agro-food sector in general areas. It would be backward and inconsistent if a choice made today, in 2015, when the environmental issue is among those epochal of the 21st century, assumed a dispersion in generic areas of competences and functions of environmental protection: it would be incomprehensible and extremely short-sighted; even more inconsistent and schizophrenic would be for a country that wants to invest a large part of its future on this heritage. A country that wants to invest culturally and economically in eco-sustainability needs a system of land management and control, an environmental police, as has been said, to the extent of this task, the complexity of the ecosystem and its defence; an environmental police within a technologically advanced system, with unique databases, integrated systems and not fences in competition. Too many times it happens: there are fences competing with each other. Coherence wants a country that puts at the centre the agri-environmental system, a country champion in biodiversity, the country, precisely, of Expo-Feeding the Planet, know and must plan, decide objectives and in what order of priority: what functions to aggregate, what organizational modalities, what use of professionalism, what technological and instrumental investments, and in what times - this is important - all this is implemented. After it decides the color of the uniforms; after the organigrams, and not vice versa, not the opposite path. In a vision that considers rural areas as the centre of a new eco-development system, and not terminal areas, marginal areas, as a result of the urban center, an organizational method must be envisaged that provides concretely for rural areas, i.e. more operators on the ground, more direct controls on water and forests; more direct checks on the quality of land, on the quality of production; direct, with people there, sufficient, adequate in number and skills. Therefore, a reform that involves integrating and using professionalism grown up in the local area, and I am referring to provincial officials, who have gained valuable skills, who know and know. We, Madam Minister, will propose this subject again: provincial policemen must be part of the system of control of the territory. Reforming means making the best use of people, motivating them, professionalising them. Investing on this is useful expense. Waste is keeping people on standby, suspended, waiting for a solution that will come. We ask that this agenda be accepted as a commitment to the Government to pursue this objective, to follow the path for construction and not for disposal, for a strong and modern environmental police, with the Forestry Corps as the central and driving force behind this change. The Forestry Corps certainly needs innovation processes, but there is a need for high skills and know-how on environmental protection, and the Forestry Corps has it, if it is built over time. We cannot disperse it, because it would be a bad government of resources. We call, in essence, for a stated commitment that objectives such as a healthy environment and healthy food should be indicated as a priority for living and thus be the first item on the agenda. We are willing to work on this to strengthen, consolidate and efficiency, for a dedicated and specialized system in the agri-environment. This takes this time and we expect this from the government. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u174	We greet and welcome to the Senate the students and students of the Hotel Institute Karol Wojtyla in Catania. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u175	Madam President, I am in favour of Amendment 7.96. I am also in favour of amendment 7.347, with a rewording that I am going to read.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u176	Senator Pagliari, amendment 7.347 has been declared inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u177	Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. I apologize, but it is not unacceptable. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I confirm that Amendment 7.347, first signed by Senator Ruta, was declared inadmissible on 15 April, on the basis of the opinion delivered by the 5th Commission, extends President Azzollini. [[Brusio.]] I invite you to calm down. These things can happen.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u178	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u180	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Madam President, in view of the delicacy of the subject, I wonder whether we should suspend the sitting for ten to fifteen minutes in order to give the rapporteur time to come back. If you are in a state of poor lucidity, then things can get worse. [[Laughter and applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u181	There's clarity, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u182	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). I'm sorry someone laughed. But if we need to, we all stop. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Thank you for your suggestion. Please, Senator Pagliari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u183	The opinion is in favour of amendment 7.427, to the point of saying: 'and on border areas', and calls for a rewording to be made to the presenters. The opinion was also in favour of amendment 7.432 (text 2), of which Senator Guerra was first a signatory.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u184	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u186	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, with regard to amendment 7.427, I do not understand the rapporteur's opinion, which suggested a rewording that takes account of the border areas, since 80% of the Italian State borders on something. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Crimes, but we are at the stage when opinions are expressed. CRIMI (M5S). I wanted to ask the rapporteur to check the opinion on the amendment, on which we would have voted in favour. In these circumstances, however, we shall be voting against. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We'll ask him when we get to the point.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u187	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u189	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would just like to say whether Senator Guerra's amendment - reiterated for all the articles - is considered to be reworded in this case too. It seems to me that the rapporteur has forgotten to point out, as has been the case with the other articles, that we are talking about the reworded amendment and not the original one.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u190	Colleagues, in order to allow a reorganization on the point, I suspend the sitting until 6 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 5.54 p.m. and resumed at 6.03 p.m.) Colleagues, I'm suspending the session again. (The sitting was suspended at 6.30 p.m. and resumed at 6.30 p.m.) Colleagues, we're gonna suspend the session for another five minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 6.08 p.m. and resumed at 6.14 p.m.) Let's resume our work. I give the floor to the rapporteur to express his views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u191	Madam President, the favourable opinion is on amendment 7.327, which is not acceptable to me, with the following rewording: in point (a) of the first paragraph of Article 7, replace the words 'in the other Forces' by 'in the other Force' and add, after the word 'unitarian', the words 'in the other Forces' by 'in the other Force'. I read the entire paragraph of the Assembly as a whole: "Reordering the functions of police for the protection of the environment, the territory and the sea, as well as in the field of safety." [[Brusio]] DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). But what amendment are you talking about? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The rapporteur is asking me whether we are talking about the amendment you have already considered. Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. No. I am talking about amendment 7.327, on page 73 of the amendment file. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Go ahead, Senator Pagliari. Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. Madam President, is it preferable for you to read the rewording of the amendment or the text of the paragraph of the bill, as would result from the adoption of the reworded amendment? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Read the text of the paragraph, Senator Pagliari, so it is clearer. Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. In Article 7, paragraph 1, letter a), the last period is amended as follows: "Reorder of the functions of police, of protection of the environment and of the territory and of the sea, as well as in the field of safety and controls in the agro-food sector, consequent to the reorganization of the Forest Body of the State and eventual absorption of the same in other Police Force, without prejudice to the guarantee of the current levels of garrison of the environment, the territory and the sea, the agri-food safety and the safeguard of the professionalism, the specialties and the unity of the assigned functions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Biinella, do you accept the proposed reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u192	Madam President, I accept the rewording. CRIMI (M5S). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT, Colleagues, have Senator Biinella finish. Then I'll give the floor to whoever asks. In any case, this was not an unacceptable amendment. Bisinella (Misto-FAL). I accept the rewording, because, if I have understood correctly, the point is to foresee the possibility of reorganizing the Forestry Corps in another police force, as provided for in the first part of point (b) of my amendment: this is inserted with the objective of reorganization and, therefore, is fine. The second part of point (b) of the amendment is deleted because reference is made to the need for reorganisation in other police forces. I am also happy with that, but I would like to propose that the rapporteur turn this part of the amendment, which has been deleted, into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u193	The opinion on this agenda is favourable, provided that the commitment to the Government takes the words "to assess the appropriateness of "."
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u194	I would ask the rapporteur whether he has completed his opinions on all the amendments to Article 7.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u195	Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. Madam President, I voted in favour of Amendment No 7.96, a favourable opinion with rewording on Amendment No 7.427 and a favourable opinion, with the rewording I have just read, on Amendment No 7.327. I am now in favour of amendment 7.432 (text 2), first signed by Senator Guerra, which has been submitted to almost all the articles of delegation of the bill. Finally, I am against the remaining amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would also ask you to give your opinion on the agenda in Article 7. Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. I call on the Government to accept the agenda G7 102 (text 2). I am in favour of the G7109 agenda, subject to the first two commitments. On agenda G 7.110, tabled by Senator Lo Moro, I intend to propose a rewording of the second commitment of the device. However, I would ask you to complete your opinions on the agenda at a later date. PRESIDENT. - The debate is All right, Senator Pagliari. I call on the Government representative to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u196	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u197	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u198	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u199	Mr Azzollini (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, in the context that we have said, on the matter of a colleague, I would like to point out that I am able to supplement the rewording just read by the rapporteur in this House of an opinion of null and void, in accordance with Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, without calling back the Commission, which has also dealt a great deal with these texts. The amendment, in fact, is clearly financially neutral, so personally I can only assume the responsibility of giving an opinion of nothing prevents - I repeat - under Article 100.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u200	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u201	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u202	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I apologise, but there are seven minutes to the end of this sitting and there is a text written with a green pen by the rapporteur that none of us has in his hand, on which President Azzollini has just given an opinion, on the supposition of knowing what has just been read. Since the question of Article 7 relates to the issue raised on more than one occasion in this House, I would ask you to stop here, Madam President, but also to the majority. It is useless to go on: let us try to match the text with all the Members and all the senators, as it was read by the rapporteur, and let us resume our work with a minimum of calm and attention on the key point of Article 7. It seems to me that there is a great deal of therapy to go on for another six minutes in these conditions. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u203	Thank you, Senator Romani. We had already appreciated the circumstances, but in the meantime I give the floor to Senator Crimes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u204	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u205	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u206	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, first of all, I welcome the effort that is being made to move towards the direction we have hoped for, namely the maintenance of the homogeneity and unity of the State Forestry Corps. However, let me point out that what is happening here is now - in my opinion - a violation, and then everyone will be able to interpret as they please. This is a practice which, at this point, I call on the Presidency to take into account. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] : As happened in the Commission, the rapporteur, taking any amendment, without any reference to what he wants to include, has completely transformed it into another text and, as has been pointed out, has done so in the Commission, more than once. Now, first of all, the rapporteur can of course table the amendments whenever he wants to: do so, but then we will present all the sub-amendments that are needed, provided that time is given. No, you do not: you take an amendment from Senator Bisinella, which has nothing to do with it, because the text is completely different. It had been tried before with 7.347, which was inadmissible. But, if that is the case, we offer you one, at this point: we take one at random, signed by Crimes, and the rapporteur transforms it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] However, he does not want to give the satisfaction of accepting a suggestion that came from all oppositions, because he could also take an amendment of Forza Italia or the League: but no, he took an amendment not to give satisfaction to the oppositions that are carrying out a battle to safeguard the Forest Corps of the State. This is the state of things. [[Applause from the M5S, FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups and Senators Bignami and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u207	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u208	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u209	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I rise on the same issue. Do you have the file in your hand? You must explain to me what this amendment has to do with the text that has now been tabled, because here we are even talking about the possibility - right and sacrosanct - of predicting that the fire-fighting component will go to the Firefighters' Corps. The rapporteur, however - as Senator Crimi said - has done so before: they say to him: Take a signature, then build us whatever you want. So, though, you can't go on. It is all very well for him to be ascribed to the rapporteur's merit for having made a deliberate attempt, but to table an amendment on his behalf. You can't go on like this anymore. Moreover, he chose one instead of another, he gave an opinion in favour of one and opposed to another, albeit identical. In this way, however, we cannot proceed. The rapporteur is making an effort and, therefore, assumes the responsibility of presenting the rewording. Otherwise, we go on like this, without any kind of criterion. I asked, among other things, formally for the secret vote on three amendments. I have not been given any notice by the Presidency. So I would like to know what the Presidency intends to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u210	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u211	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u212	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, the North-League Group also denounces this, which is a real mockery. The rapporteur, Mr Pagliari, went to buy an amendment from those who had all the interests to sell it and then throw it away and rewrite it again! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Arrigoni, please, there are rules that must apply! Arrigoni (LN-Aut). I would point out that an amendment equal to that of Senator Biinella is 7,325 at the first signature of Senator Volpi: it is identical and comes before that of Senator Biinella. We wonder why the rapporteur, Mr Pagliari, did not come to ask the Group of the North League for a rewording of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u213	Colleagues, appreciated the circumstances, I refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u214	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u215	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u216	DI GIORGI (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise on a particular issue that is involving all those who care about the civilization of this world. I intervene about the destruction of the ancient city of Nimrud, one of the most important archaeological sites of ancient Mesopotamia. In fact, the theme is the destruction of the artistic heritage, on which many national and, of course, international bodies are now taking a stand. The city was razed to the ground by ISIS militiamen, who destroyed it with a bulldozer column. You'll remember that, because it happened a short time ago. They were remains of the royal palace, of the precious foundations of temples and sculptures, statues in good state of conservation, some of which survived the numerous lootings carried out during various armed conflicts that have followed in that area. This is just another terrible episode of the chain triggered by ISIS of actions aimed at the destruction of cultural heritage. This action has affected everyone and, of course, international bodies as well. And that's what I want to talk about. UNESCO has called it a war crime and in a statement the general director, Irina Bokova, appeals to all political and religious leaders in the region to rise up against this barbarity. Then there is the hashtag (now quite fashionable) # unitedforheritage, in order to form a worldwide network in favor of the protection and preservation of the heritage in danger in the various theatres of conflict. At the beginning of this year, the terrorists had announced their intention to destroy archaeological finds that, in their view, offended Islam. On February 26, the Islamic militias had released online the video of the devastation of the archaeological finds of Mosul. Here I would like to thank Senator Zanoni, who put an oral question to the Commission, asking the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and the Minister for Cultural Heritage what initiatives they intend to take, within the framework of their competences, considering the possibility of stepping up aid to the Iraqi State. On this issue, the European Parliament's Committee on Culture and Education also expressed its views, which ensured that this issue was included in the annual report of the European Parliament. This is a state of progress with respect to the perception that has occurred in the years of this phenomenon, also because perhaps we had never faced each other in this regard. Therefore, the European Parliament speaks and includes this issue in the annual report on human rights and democracy. This amendment is inserted, which says that, also on the basis of the UNESCO conventions, cultural diversity and cultural heritage constitute a universal heritage to which the protection and enhancement of the international community as a whole has a duty to cooperate. It is therefore believed that the deliberate destruction of cultural and artistic heritage, as is happening in Iraq and Syria, is to be firmly prosecuted as war crimes and crimes against humanity. That is what Parliament says, and that is what the Culture Commission says. There is also a more specific question and I think it is very interesting. The High Representative of the Mogherini Union is asked to intervene at the UN Security Council to block the sale of stolen and used archaeological finds as an improper weapon by the countries of the Middle East for the self-financing of terrorism. The European Union is asked to document what has actually been destroyed or stolen, including through the use of satellite images. It also calls for the ICCROM (which you know is the UNESCO body for the protection of cultural heritage) and ICOM (the body against the illicit international trafficking in cultural goods) to cooperate with Europol and Interpol for these purposes. This is also a matter of this nature. I thought it helpful to tell my fellow Members because not all of us, then, have this information. What happened to the city of Nimrud I think is really horrible. The subject has a great value and I would love the teachers in the schools to deepen it. In fact, because it is about the destruction of the heritage, we have to ask ourselves what cultural heritage is, what are a museum or an archaeological site. They are basically memory, collective memory. Therefore, it is surely beauty, science, history; it is the memory of peoples, the memory of humanity. We, in reality, are always a little 'what we have been, not only as a genetic fact, but for everything that has allowed us to be as we are now, as individuals, as peoples, as humanity, therefore every word and every syllable contained within the libraries, of those destroyed places is testimony. Of course, I also think about Nazism, because we know what we had not so many years ago in our Europe. Nazism destroyed and burned the books. We've documented this, too. Everything that is destroyed belongs to us, because it is part and creates man and woman, as we are. These are not deposits of precious things; they are, in reality, living memory, a true living memory. So, it is the horror that causes us this memory. I believe that we have a duty to adhere to these international campaigns as parliamentarians, but also as people who, in some way, perhaps feel a bit like guardians of a civilization that we have a duty to pass on to those who come after us, to the men and women of the future. I therefore believe that this commitment is required of us and of those who come after us. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u217	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u218	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u219	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, today I rise to highlight yet another irresponsible action by the President of the Council and this Government. This is the question of Indesit-Whirlpool, which provides for the closure of three plants, for a total of 1,350 redundancies, including the headquarters of Carinaro, in the province of Caserta. So these are 1,350 families who are in danger of being in the middle of a road. When the Merloni family decided to surrender their Indesit company, various proposals began to arrive, including those of Swedish and Chinese, but the offer of American Whirlpool was taken into consideration, with the support of Renzi, who even declared that this acquisition was a fantastic operation. Indeed, on the website of the MISE, on April 16, 2015, after having seen in preview the new industrial plan of the Whirlpool, Minister Guidi launches a press release in which he declares to have asked and obtained the commitment of the company to respect what established in the agreement of 2013 on the acquisition of the Indesit, that excluded any unilateral dismissal until 2018. Well, what is not said is that this agreement of December 2013 included investments also in the headquarters of Campania and Marche and the start of new production lines. Agreement not respected, because the Undersecretary De Vincenti, who on behalf of the Government signed this agreement, did not think or wanted to insert a safeguard clause, as we of the 5 Star Movement had requested, so that the level of employment would be protected even in case of future acquisitions. A great negligence, that will cost the job to 1,350 people and that has allowed Whirlpool instead to take advantage of aid of the Italian State through social shock absorbers, without having to guarantee anything. It is yet another confirmation that an agreement signed by the Italian Government is rag paper. We, as 5 Star Movement, are and will be at the side of these workers and we will not allow the lives of thousands of them to be wiped out with the tweet of a jackal. This time you're gonna get hurt! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u220	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u221	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u222	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, when you give in to provocations you are showing weakness and I, at the end of my speech, gave in. As if it were a wrong amendment, I withdraw the gesture, because it is improper. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u223	Thank you very much and I very much appreciate your choice.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u224	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-435.ana.u225	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 23 April, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.37.
