ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 7 May.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1328. I would remind you that yesterday's sitting dealt with the articles and amendments in the text proposed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u11	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, so we have reached the final vote on the measure. It comes as we had begun, in a tired and careless way, with a debate that did not bring out, neither on the part of the Government, nor on the part of the majority, the awareness of the mistakes made in the legislative process. It is worth remembering in this final passage, before we reach the vote, that we are talking about the connection to the financial presented by the President of the Council of Ministers Enrico Letta (non Renzi), presented to the press on 31 January 2014. It is therefore a legal provision which, if it had really been in the ranks of the Government, should have been brought into question among the first of the new Renzi Government. In the reality of the facts, this is a measure of law prepared to be a sort of manifesto of intent, which was then gradually emptied by the Government itself with the decree-law on competitiveness (the so-called competitiveness bill) and with the financial law, until it reaches to distort the whole complex, even with the paradox, Madam President, to find ourselves in these same hours and these days with another measure of law that concerns the fish sector under discussion in the Chamber of Deputies, which overlaps with what we are going to legislate. What does not convince us and on which we are very critical is therefore the method: the government has neglected the agriculture sector, dealing with it instead when it came to taxing. When it came to putting the IMU on agricultural land, in fact, the government did not think twice about it, but immediately applied the tax, going to avoid any consideration of the damage that this tax would have produced for our farmers, except to come here now. We note the attention of Deputy Minister Olivero, but at the same time we must lament the total absence of Minister Martina: where is Minister Martina while here we are discussing the connection with agriculture? Cut some ribbons at Expo? Around giving interviews to the press? I do not think so, because it is another of those ministers, like Franceschini, who is completely "evaporated," even with respect to public opinion, except to appear at the moment when there is to cut some tape at Expo and to go and talk about the Charter of Milan, a manifesto that - let us remember - should deal with the themes of Expo "Feeding the planet, energy for life" but in the Senate, as well as in the Chamber of Deputies, has not even landed. There was a simple audition at Joint Commissions in which guidelines were outlined before the press preview, so the Chambers were considered as proofreaders, perhaps adding a few commas or removing some exclamation points, nothing more. No, we are not really there, Mr President: agriculture deserves the respect that must be given to those who work on a daily basis. Agriculture does not simply deserve white brushstrokes, as this measure does, making it believe that competitiveness can be achieved by inserting a few paragraphs of the law or even by going to modify the laws, without changing in the reality of the facts the ability to produce income by the agricultural enterprise, because there is no agriculture if there are no people working, if there are no investments, if there is no awareness that our agriculture is different from that of other European countries and the world, that our products have a specificity and a higher quality than that of the products that are on the market from abroad. This is how we return to a subject on which we would have liked to see the difference in this provision: the protection of the trademarks of origin and geographical indications, which we have seen faced by the Government in a rough and not convincing way, always with a reason or with an excuse, such as that which European laws and constraints do not allow us to say that the balsamic vinegar of Modena must be produced with must produced in Modena, that if the seal is produced in a certain place, it must be made with the milk of that same place, and the same could be said for ham, etc. This does not happen because once again the problem lies at the root, that is in the fact that the Renzi Government at European level has not committed itself and does not want to commit to not risk having yet another door closed in the face in the defense of the Italian product, of the made in Italy. Yesterday we presented an agenda that asked the government to engage in the defence of Made in Italy, of our production, and the government gave an opinion against it. Fortunately, we also had the satisfaction of seeing an agenda adopted on the defence of the rice sector, on which I would like to see those who do not agree today. Unfortunately, however, Mr President, it is known that a measure consists of positive and negative assessments and, as a whole, this is not a measure that we can positively assess precisely because of these shortcomings, which are primarily structural. Competitiveness means speed and then why President Renzi, who is so used to tweeting and always gives us lessons on how to be fast, didn't he want this measure to be one of the first to be approved by his newly installed government? Why did you let him sneak into the next laws? In the Agriculture Committee each political component has played its part, representing the demands coming from the agricultural world and all of this is today frustrated by a timing that makes the article of the measure dissimilar and in some cases even superfluous and superimposed on other regulations. Mr President, the entire establishment of the law is inconsistent with what President Letta said, namely that it would give even more competitiveness to a crucial sector in view of Expo. We had to change some of the amendments and agendas in the same way because Expo has now begun. All this would have had meaning because of the Italian Presidency of the European Union, but here too we have had to remove amendments and amend agendas because the European Semester has ended in the meantime: we are even beyond what the Government has said. Moreover, we are not at all on simplification. How many opportunities are lost. Opening up new businesses does not mean making life easy for old farmers; if there are no clear barriers, this means, instead, opening the way for the speculators of agriculture, for those who will open up businesses not even having an agricultural history, but taking, instead, the opportunity to take the contributions, going to take away those farmers really and in the most difficult way: working the land and not moving the cards. Once again we remind President Renzi that the real reforms are those that leave money in the pocket to the people, the money that comes from the work; not those that put the 80 euros in the pocket, removing them, as it should be, to those who do not work to give them to those who work, without then giving a certain income to our young people for the future. Here is the paradox: income is not produced. Our agriculture achieves competitiveness only when the costs, bureaucracy and agricultural IMU do not weigh on it. Our agriculture does not need explanations on how to be excellent; it needs the protection of its excellence. I repeat: today we find, indifferently, on the shelf of the store, the product sold for Italian that Italian is not and the product really Italian at a higher cost, because its genuineness costs and is not protected and defended by the Government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This is what we expected to be solved by the measure and which, on the other hand, does not come to a solution. We are sorry for this, because the missed opportunity is great. No, Madam President, our opinion remains negative even after all the amendments and precisely because the Government has not given any sign of the transposition of these signals. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Ruvolo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u14	RUVOLO (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). Madam President, I rise to declare my Group's vote against this draft law. I have to take some positive aspects of this measure, starting with simplification and the part relating to reordering, on which I would like to express some appreciation, but for everything else, once again, by this Government, as from the previous ones, agriculture has really been put underfoot. We are talking about a future legislative decree; there is no model of agriculture that looks at Europe and the world and, as we have mentioned in general discussion, pieces and small pieces of this legislative decree have been put into the various measures, totally distorting - I repeat - the initial approach of this related one. Approach, confusion, little ability to understand what the agricultural world is. I am convinced that, because after so many amendments, some considered by so many, even in the Commission, very appropriate to give sap and opportunity for recovery to the agricultural world, you have only put the absolute ban to debate. You do not want to discuss for a very simple reason: you have no idea what Italian agriculture and Italian agriculture in the world are. I would like to mention a few significant points on which no attention has been paid. I am talking about the National Solidarity Fund, because unfortunately the damaged farmers will remain without compensation, and the same reasoning applies also to insurance policies whose cost, as I said in the general discussion, is not bearable by the agricultural undertaking. I would also like to remind my colleagues who are dealing with this matter and the Deputy Minister who listens to us that the constant absence of the Minister when dealing with agricultural issues says a lot; at least, I do not say the complacency, but the style and good taste of being present at times in this House, which has also given him the opportunity to become Minister: he has never deigned to come to this House to discuss agricultural issues; I hope that there will be next time, even if perhaps, as the government behaves on agriculture, we will have to wait for 2019 to be able to talk again about this issue. Regarding the National Solidarity Fund, well, precise, irrefutable data report of 2 billion damages certified in 2014 against which €18 million were paid. On this subject, you did not want to discuss it, but we have put forward very targeted amending proposals, to which you have replied with silence, while it would have been enough a no to get rid of the inconvenience of this or some other senator in the Committee on Agriculture. I would also like to talk for the last time (because I am tired) about the reorganization of the agencies supervised by the Ministry of Agricultural Policy: a source of waste, endless bureaucracy, lack of capacity for response. You have only done some low-profile customer operations, removing boards of directors that were to be regularly eliminated to appoint some commissioners, without having an overall view of this issue. On the one hand billions are sought to try to make maneuvers that serve the country, on the other there is the bottomless well constituted by the supervised bodies. Think at least about this, give us a concrete answer! We want to recover resources that must be directed towards the world of agriculture. We are talking about this and there is absolute silence about it. I repeat again that Italy has never had a specific weight on labelling in Europe, not even on real and natural issues, those that can find an outlet of course. In particular, I would like to address my fellow Members in this House: in the European fora, this Government and even its predecessors have only one way of acting, that is to send some executives on a mission, to do what? Maybe to go have fun in Brussels. Not even on this date of answers. I urge you to participate with a high institutional profile in those European fora where all Ministers regularly participate to defend their positions. On the other hand, we are always on the margins and in defence of nothingness, from labelling to other much more significant and important issues. Moreover, when bilateral agreements are to be concluded, the European Union does so once with Morocco, once with Turkey, to the exclusive detriment of Italian agriculture. I would like to remind you once again here that the agreement between the European Union and Morocco has destroyed and killed Mediterranean agriculture, without any competition, because the costs incurred by the agricultural producer are certainly not those of Morocco. As far as food security is concerned, the rules we respect are certainly not respected by Morocco, Turkey and the other countries bordering the Mediterranean. Therefore, a competition that does not concern us - by chance - is endorsed by the European Union to the detriment of Italian agriculture. A movement of pride this Government has it on the world of agriculture, because it is useless to continue to say that agriculture is the backbone of our economy: consequent acts do not exist. There is only a constant chatter that you have not even been able to put into practice in this measure. A new model of agriculture was expected, something that would give income to farmers and farms. You couldn't do it this time either. I repeat, therefore, the reasons why my Group will vote against this measure. [[Applause from Senators Companion and Scoma.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u17	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Minister Olivero, as I have already said a great deal during the general debate, this measure has had a rather tortuous process and has lost that organicity which it intended to have at the beginning, foreshadowing itself as a framework law on the subject. However, the political value remains, that of a measure that finally wants to put agriculture at the centre with a link to the most important law of the state, even if we are talking about the law of stability last year. All this assumes even more value today with the Expo, with the centrality that the sector assumes in key of relaunch and escape from the crisis of the country, of opportunities that this sector can give to young people and of ways in which here cross knowledge and skills of different origins. I confirm that this measure would be totally inadequate today if it were seen as a landing point; if it is understood as a starting point it is an interesting premise, also because, within it, it contains many delegations to the Government. I hope that this House and this Government, in the shortest possible time, will follow up new initiatives aimed at a sector that today strongly calls for bureaucratic simplifications and new tools to engage and overcome the challenges of a global market, to be the point of excellence of Made in Italy in the world, but also to overcome those difficulties that - especially the small farm and mountain agriculture - today live in a very strong way. Turning to the representative of the Government, I repeat that we cannot be satisfied with the opposite position of the Government and the rapporteur with regard to the requests of our Group, but in particular to the one made yesterday by Mr Berger, on the abolition of bureaucratic elements for small farms. These are just paper, work and wasted time just to fill up archives and create expenses for companies. The fight against bureaucracy cannot only be declared, but must above all be practiced. There are many areas on which to intervene; there are also measures still in the Commission or under discussion in the House (such as the single text on vine and wine) which call for acceleration and detailed attention. In this regard, we, the self-employed, have presented a programme document to the Government with a series of proposals for relaunching the sector, and I am pleased to note that some of them have been accepted in the form of an amendment or included in the texts of the measures, in particular in the Competitiveness Decree. I am thinking of the single register of controls, in order to prevent companies from having to undergo the same control by different subjects who do not communicate with each other; I am thinking of the introduction of the preventive warning. Compared to the connected, I also note with satisfaction the inclusion of our amendment on the routes reserved for transhumance flocks, with the amendment of our Group to Article 8, always signed by my colleague Berger, which provides for the possibility of entrusting agricultural entrepreneurs of the mountain and disadvantaged territories to direct subcontracting services of less than 20,000 euros (for example, small maintenance works or the snow clearing service). It is a measure to help save that mountain farming that needs to integrate agricultural income with other activities in order to survive, because, as Mr Ruta has also said, which I thank for his strong mention of the mountain in his speech in general debate, we should pay mountain farmers to stay there. In short, there are a number of issues on the table that need to be addressed through targeted, rapid, effective interventions. In conclusion, I would like to thank my colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture and Mr Formigoni, who is also rapporteur for the measure, for working on this and on all other measures in the agricultural field with great passion and competence, but above all with the will to find solutions to simplify procedures and to allow Italian agriculture to have the right revival. A thank you also goes to Deputy Minister Olivero, who for the Government has followed directly, not only the process of this measure, but all the debate on issues related to the agricultural sector, with an excellent relationship that has come to be created between the Commission and the Government, which I believe will help to identify many shared solutions. With the hope that agriculture can really be considered a primary sector for the country, not only for the estate and the garrison of the territory and for prevention also from the point of view of health, but above all as an economic sector able to provide employment and to be increasingly attractive for young people today, I announce the vote in favour of the measure by the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u20	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, a measure which has been declared linked to the financial maneuver comes to an end today. In fact, we have asked ourselves a lot about the part of the maneuver to which reference is made, given the long course of this measure which, precisely because of the long term, should have had the opportunity to put in place measures that could really revive agriculture. The agricultural sector of our country faces what was to be a decisive year for its development, with the pull of the Milan Expo, but in a context strongly compromised by the too many sector crises and the absence of a clear national agricultural policy direction, which continues to be a vulnus for Italy, and I am not referring only to the action of the current Government: the national agricultural policy seems almost the ashes of all the successive governments in recent years, with serious repercussions on the sector. The great potential of the Italian agricultural and agri-food product in the world is, in fact, strongly limited precisely by the political inability, now ten years old, to express clear guidelines in support of strategic sectors that suffer, with increasing evidence, international competition. Some crucial sectors for our country's food model are in great difficulty. In increasing suffering are the fruit and vegetable companies, exposed to the dynamism of Spanish and North African exports; the milk sector and cattle breeding, with a drastic reduction of the active farms; the cereal sector, which progressively reduces the contribution of national production; the olive sector, with a disastrous vintage in many regions, also due to the phytopathology that is affecting the Puglia Region, to which, even in this measure, it has not wanted to give an effective response. I am referring in particular to our amendment concerning the possibility of exempting from the Stability Pact the expenditure incurred by the Puglia Region and the local authorities to deal with the spread of xylella, a common sense amendment, which was put aside in the Commission, for which the Government did not consider to indicate an adequate cover solution which would have made it possible to make available fundamental resources to strengthen the fight, which could no longer be postponed, for the spread of the bacterium. With the excuse that the decree was made, yesterday too it was absolutely not intended to take into consideration the hypothesis of the provision in order to find the appropriate cover. I invite the Minister and the representatives of the Government to give an appropriate critical thought, because it is no longer acceptable to underestimate this emergency for agriculture and the environment, which is likely to upset forever a landscape, an economy and a structural culture for most of our country. In order to cope with the crisis and restore momentum to the agricultural economy, we need a clear direction and a clear project that, objectively, we cannot really trace in this measure, which we could define in a very simple way without infamy and without praise. The related agricultural bill was born with other ambitions - at least as you said - while the concrete content that we are preparing to vote on today, despite some valuable efforts made in the Commission, does not present the organic nature that was desirable. We are faced with a set of riffazzonati norms, in some cases confused, once again without a guiding thread and a direction of univocal march. The first part of the measure is certainly interesting in terms of bureaucratic simplification, which, however, is at risk of being thwarted by the transposition procedures decided upon for the reform of the common agricultural policy, where serious bureaucratic burdens are expected for farmers. Once again, on this crucial point, there is a lack of opportunity to streamline the administrative and fiscal requirements of farmers and their relationship with paying agencies. Certainly more innovative and interesting are some elements introduced in the Commission, such as the establishment of the Agricultural Land Bank and Article 11, the outcome of our amendment on the modernisation of logistics for the agro-food sector. We hope in particular that on the implementation of this provision there will be an adequate attention from the Government and the Regions, because the modernization of the net of the wholesale markets, the transports and the logistic platforms for the export of our products is a decisive factor, also in order to defeat those eco-afies that precisely on the backwardness of the agri-food transports have constructed their control on the supply chains. Certainly interesting are also the provisions concerning the labour force in agriculture, with particular reference to Article 30, which intervenes by specifying and strengthening the norms on the Agricultural Labour Network of quality, an innovation that requires the greatest effort to effectively combat the scourge of the head of the country and of the black labour, a phenomenon that does not mention to go back, but rather gains space in agriculture well beyond the South of the country. There is no doubt that the provision introduced yesterday in this House, which aggravates the sanctions for the counterfeiting of geographically-named agri-food products, has not, however, been at the heart of the Government's and the majority's concerns. Finally, the provisions on fisheries. While we are dealing with the agricultural link, the fisheries law is being examined in the other branch of Parliament. It is not conceivable to face a structural crisis in the sector only through procedural simplifications and the easing of sanctions, in some cases questionable. Our marine industries are becoming extinct because of other fundamental problems that cannot be solved, starting with the lack of effective initiatives for the protection and reproduction of biological resources and the reduction of the primary costs of fishermen. I would like to remind you here that we are about to discuss a subject of great importance to the fishing world, that of the search for hydrocarbons at sea, whose impact can be devastating for those who live in the fishing economy and coastal tourism. Even here Government and majority - just think of what happened in the matter of environmental crimes and the question time of last week with Minister Guidi - continue to carry on this idea, which will produce irreversible damage in the fisheries sector and in the matter of environmental impact. So this measure, without infamy and without praise, in our opinion is absolutely not able to give effective answers to a sector that, despite the serious problems, is one of the few that held in this crisis situation and that would need - and we thought this year could be important - an opportunity to relaunch and intervene. On the other hand, choices have been made, which unfortunately this link has not called into question (I am thinking of the node of taxation and therefore of the agricultural IMU), which will continue to cause irreversible damage to the sector itself. As far as we are concerned, therefore, we can only express a vote of abstention on the measure, hoping - because hope is hard to die - that the Government will open a lot more spaces for discussion and initiative in favour of Italian agriculture in the framework of the decree-law currently being converted to the Chamber of Deputies and on the occasion of the next law of stability. I also believe that it is necessary to be more precise, in the context of this link - I am thinking of yesterday's episodes and the discussions that have taken place - also on the issue of genetically modified organisms. Therefore, we will not fail to push the Government, starting with the "open wound" for the agricultural sector, represented by the increase in the IMU on land, on which a solution must be found quickly, in the face of an unfair tax mechanism, which currently encourages the abandonment of crops. That is why I am abstaining on behalf of the Left Ecology and Freedom component of the Mixed Group. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u21	We greet the students and students of the Institute including Raffaello in Rome, who are attending our work. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u24	WRITER IN TOR (AP) (NCD-UDC). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-Minister, the measure we are about to vote on affects an area - agriculture - which represents and must represent one of the key points of the economy of the future. I do not want to repeat, in an explanation of vote, what I have already said in my speech in general debate, but I believe that this sector must necessarily return to being strategic, so that its contribution to the national economy is expanded. For these reasons, I believe that the measure under discussion is extremely important, although it is not possible to consider the work of the institutions to be exhausted, aimed at increasing a more courageous development, which for too long now has often been left in the "baby of itself." The measure is a good starting point, since it contains a number of measures, which in various ways can encourage the agricultural sector. The many innovations of the measure itself make it no longer viable for such vital sectors of the Italian economy and the very life of people, but which have been guilty and repeatedly neglected, not only by the Italian legislator, but also by other public institutions. The time has come to give a new impetus and a decisive push, in this case with legislative instruments, to the agricultural, agri-food and fisheries sectors, which so much represent us in the world and which must be able to drive the Italian economy and society towards economic and social recovery, without permanently losing some of the traditions that most characterize our lands and our seas. Today's is, therefore, an extremely important step, not only from the material point of view for a possible early adoption of rules that can somehow move the agricultural, agri-food and fisheries sector, but also from the symbolic point of view, since its approval could result in greater competitiveness in the sector, which will be the heart of Expo 2015, whose themes are closely linked to agriculture, land and food of Italian origin. I therefore declare the strong vote in favour of the People's Area Group and hope, for these and other reasons, that we will be able to reach rapid approval in the other branch of Parliament in a short time. I would like to thank the Commission, which has worked with commitment and almost unitedly, the President and rapporteur, Senator Formigoni, and I would like to thank Deputy Minister Olivero, who has always followed us for his cooperation. I believe that from this measure - the final text of which has been very modified in the Commission, compared with the initial one - the whole agricultural world can benefit. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u27	WOMAN (M5S). Madam President, the history of this measure is very unique: it was presented on 21 February last year - I am referring to 2014 - and announced on 24 February of the same year, in order to remain in the agricultural field, it came to the Commission with the appearance of a cabbage, and then it was frozen and discharged to the House like a turnip. It started, in fact, as provisions on simplification, rationalization and agricultural competitiveness, and came as a delegation to the Government on the agricultural sector. Yes, because to give life to this process of genetic mutation of the contents and features of a text that aspires to become law has intervened, first of all, the so-called competitiveness decree, a decree that had nothing competitive: one of the many monstrous creatures of the Renzi Government, just to understand us. Approved with confidence both in the House and in the Senate. But let us move on to the characteristics of the text, that of today, that which we shall vote on, or rather its shortcomings. We're running out of time. It is good to remember, in fact, if someone had not clearly in mind, that today we adopt a text that is nothing more than a related to the 2014 budget law, namely the budget law of a year ago, a year now passed. What do I mean? These questionable provisions on the simplification and supposed rationalization of the agricultural sector have remained to mature and to mold in the Commission for months and months, except then to undergo abrupt accelerations compatible with the Premier's weekly whims. But that's a well-known thing. Here, then, were followed by months of comparisons, announcements and 22 sessions of hearings during which many bodies, federations, associations, confederations, agencies, national institutes and those who have more to put them. Avalanches of memories, documents, notes, programmatic lines have been acquired along with pages and pages of reports, technical reports, impact analysis... and then? Then nothing. A chronoprogram that would make your skin cling even to the best champions of apathy and that is worthy of your chameleon transformation. But wasn't this the country that had to drive the march, run and overcome the crisis? Yes, of course: the only thing you can win, in the state of affairs, is the Guinness of the Primates of Flemma. And again, there is a lack of proper listening to the demands of those who live in agriculture as a job, a resource, a form of support. And here, again, I ask: what was the point of spending three months in hearings - from April to June 2014 - if the contents were not taken into consideration? In addition, to close the list of shortcomings, there is a lack of a proper balance between the powers of the State, debased by the continuing delegations in favour of the Commission. By making two accounts, in this linked - and we are talking about a single text - the Government has been called to: rearrange and simplify the legislation on agriculture, fisheries and aquaculture; adopt a regulation governing the support companies for agricultural land; rearrange and reduce the bodies, companies and agencies supervised by MIPAAF together with technical assistance, farmers and the discipline of animal production; rearrange the tools of risk management in agriculture; support the rice sector. In essence, delegation after delegation, the power to legislate of the only body to do so has literally been cancelled: Parliament. It would have been enough to say: do what you think so much, at the end of the day, the result does not change for us and so much I decide! That is the policy that you are implementing. But the magicians of the delegations didn't stop here. There's more to it than that! There is no organic vision of the structure of the bill. He took the opportunity to insert, in the individual articles of a single text, real laws. In practice it was thought: "We make a nice soup, we put pears, apples and lemons, so much those do not notice and we pass our marchettes and we infiltrate our usual sluts." Despite the attempt to dilute the analysis of the measure in unacceptable time, we of the 5 Star Movement, in the Committee on Agriculture, have examined - from the first to the last page - what has been one of the last prowess of the Letta Government, government then sunk, despite the exhortations to remain serene (but we certainly cannot be serene!). Thanks to our tight work, we have achieved - during the examination and discussion of the amendments in the Committee on Agriculture - that the Commission, when re-ordering the bodies supervised by the Ministry, finally refers to public call methods according to criteria of merit and transparency. Modes that are always unknown to you. Again. We have called for incentives for the recruitment of workers who depend on companies linked to a network contract, because growth starts mainly from these initiatives. We have obtained the abolition of the private label identifying national production, a mark which would otherwise have been owned by the most representative organizations in the agricultural sector. I am referring to those to which you always have to account, those that hide the fantastic foundations that finance you and that, however, cancel the excellences of Made in Italy and protect for the foreign market. This was not enough, however, because, with the announcement of the passage to the Chamber, the measure needed another overall revision. I would like to highlight our further proposals. On the subject of Xylella, the killer bacterium that is testing the green gold of Puglia, the olive trees and the entire primary sector, we have called for concrete aid for farmers, a suitable defense protocol and certain and effective implementation measures. It is essential for us to include the concept of traceability of raw materials and compound foods, to shorten the long periods of delegation and granting of authorisations or concessions and to promote the initiatives of the small local entrepreneurship, including fishing and tourism activities, with the inclusion of the latter in the access to the microcredit guarantee fund, from which they are still excluded. Finally, but not least, we have called for the inclusion in all the useful parts of the clause on the invariance of financial charges, because there must be no new or higher public finance expenditure for the implementation of provisions that do not deserve unnecessary expenditure on money. This practice is also unknown to you. This tireless refining of a bill that was not born well, has gone on badly and has even turned into something worse shows that this measure cannot have our vote in favour. For all these reasons, I announce the vote against the 5 Star Movement Group and I repeat that too many were the semantic manipulations and textual alterations, to which is added the total misunderstanding of the times and the modalities within which we arrived at the final discussion in the Chamber. Remember: while you in the morning have only the problem of choosing the color of the tie to wear, out of here citizens have the problem of survival. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] None of you care about this. Evidently, that is the truth. Hypocrites. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u30	SCOMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, we are about to vote on one of the last initiatives of the Letta Government, serenely put to the door by its successor through yet another rotation not legitimized by the popular vote. The advent of the Renzi Government was justified by the need to change direction and change step, with miraculous results from the air of a good turn. However, with the passage of time and having the opportunity to verify the poor results, we cannot but say that, beyond the adjectives and epithets that echo the slogan that we read on our highways "You are in a wonderful country," this Government is very far, if not unable to guide Italy in the direction of growth, development and employment. Studying and reading this bill with great care only exposes two important aspects: first, the Renzi Government continues without any innovative contribution what the previous Government has begun. Secondly, the same approach and method is found in all the activities of the Government and the parliamentary majority as in all the left-wing governments which have occupied the Executive House. The installation of this measure, like other identical ones, remains a dirigist: the State, through its competent emanations, regulates every detail of the lives of individuals, families and businesses and, in this case, even manages to classify and define tomato pastes. It is clear that, in doing so, the result will not be to increase the competitiveness of the agricultural sector. Once again, the rationale behind the measures taken is wrong. If the attention is placed on what the public can and must do, it degrades the private, who in the meantime tries to make rational choices to continue with his entrepreneurial activity, to mere passive spectator to whom illogical and, above all, counterproductive demands are made. One of them, the most obvious because the most senseless in my opinion, is found in Article 13, where it is stated that the public authorities are obliged to collect data on persons engaged in agricultural activities electronically. But you imagine a farmer from the countryside of a small Italian country where he does not arrive, if not at who knows how many kilometers away, the Internet line? Do we not realize that regulatory hypertrophy, especially if conceived against the nature of things, contributes to the loss of competitiveness and certainly not to its improvement? It is also expected that financial assistance to support agricultural and fisheries enterprises will be provided through financial operations carried out by the Institute for the Development of Food and Agriculture SpA, on the basis of specific conditions which I leave out here; but the whole mechanism is subject to prior authorisation by the European Commission. So let us add to our bureaucracy the European bureaucracy, so it is certain that this structure of soft loans will not give any advantage to the sector's economy. Instead, with the intention of giving real support, we had proposed exemption from VAT for small farmers. In addition, the provisions on fisheries and aquaculture provide for excessive constraints for operators, including the use of standard boxes to simplify - it is said - the operations relating to weighing and the use of the bar code to provide product information. Instead of simplifying, additional procedures are in place for the authorisation and sale of fishery and aquaculture products. In this respect, one of our amendments, which I signed, was intended to make it easier, rather than hindering, trade in fishery products by proposing the direct sale of such products, in line with the provisions of the draft law allowing direct sale of agricultural products. Finally, most of the provisions of the bill include delegations to the Government, so we will have to wait for the implementing decrees to verify the results achieved. For these reasons, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, I am voting against this measure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u33	BERTUZZI (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and fellow Senators, Mr Vice-Minister, we are coming out of a deep and unprecedented crisis, which has cross-cuttingly affected all sectors. The decline in domestic consumption, which has strongly reduced the demand for basic goods (as are agricultural and agri-food products), fluctuations in the prices of commodities, but also of market products, forced to face conditions of competition often unfair, made up of costs of production factors much higher for our producers and processors, adverse climatic conditions, which have modified and expanded the range of risks of companies with open production cycle, demands for food safety, environmental sustainability, quality: all this has been translated into unsustainable income for companies. However, it is equally true and documented that in the crisis the agri-food sector has shown better macroeconomic holding values than many other sectors. Employment has kept, showing growing values, the value of production has increased, export has reached values never seen. Many companies have looked outside the national markets, where there has emerged a demand for made in Italy extraordinary and expanding, which goes far beyond the traditional European and transatlantic outlets: millions of potential consumers in emerging countries, to which to direct products that are perceived in their uniqueness, in the quality made of tradition, but also of innovation, of unrepeatable immateriality. We do not know the potential of this market, but a figure is indicative of the possible space open to our products. For every euro of Made in Italy product there are at least two products that imitate it. Thirty-five are the billions of Italian agri-food exports, sixty are the billions of Italian sounding, therefore, so much potential demand. Italian agriculture can therefore be the winning card, but it must be placed in the conditions to stimulate entrepreneurial growth, especially of young people, to support new professions, to conceive new and modern spaces of development, to enhance work within strict logics of legality and dignity of people. But we need strong choices to build a system of support tools that meet the challenges of this time. We need a lot of determination to overcome the crisis that has affected many sectors and to move towards a positive attitude, a policy of support and stimulus to the sector. It also needs a not episodic approach, but a system approach to bring out new factors that allow to compete on local markets, but also international, business systems and not individualities, aggregations of enterprises and territories, training and competence. We need a vision of rurality as an economic potential and not as a backwardness to which to give assistance. To make a system it must change the governance of the sector and it must change the relationship with the public administration, make procedures transparent and sustainable, simplify access, reverse the burden by favouring those who want to stay in the rules, that must be facilitated, and be inflexible with those who want to stay out of it. Behind the parliamentary work, ladies and gentlemen, there is this vision which has also inspired the contents of the colleague today in approval. It is found in all the interventions of the Senators of the Democratic Party Group and is a dense plot of principles, values and choices shared in a long and thorough journey carried out with an unusual commitment and passion among the members in the 9th Commission, and not only, of the Democratic Party, enriched by a frank and responsible confrontation within the Commission. That will I was talking about, that determination to move from a disarticulated approach to a system approach, that belief in wanting to affect structurally, of wanting to face paradoxes and inefficiencies, I believe are the most relevant political fact of this path. There has been widespread resolve to define the objectives and to use the most appropriate and expedited regulatory means to achieve them, in the awareness of having to intervene both on structural weaknesses, and in recovering and concentrating resources in support of the protection of the productions and businesses that have the future, in the responsibility to do it well and to do it quickly, in the majority, but also in the opposition groups. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I find the continuous call in this House for its approval to be delayed. It would make sense if nothing else had been done in the meantime, but we all know that this is not the case, after years of occasional speeches: how many years have not taken place in this House to deal with such complex and complex matters? [[Applause from the PD Group]] The last linked to a financial law dates back to 2002, approved in 2003 (so also after a year) and was nothing more than a list of more than 40 resolutions, of which no one remembers, precisely because they were not followed. So no lessons from Mr Ruvolo, like no lessons from Mr Candiani, since Mr Zaia's colleague in this House has never arrived. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is exactly the opposite. Many of the contents of the original text have been anticipated in decrees of the Government and ministerial, the de facto work has never stopped since the spring of last year, in addition to the interventions on emergencies that have affected supply chains, territories and productions, in addition to the national accodo on common agricultural policies. First Campolibero, with simplification of controls and incentives for entrepreneurship; interventions that we have all shared were considered of the utmost urgency and for this reason anticipated. Then Agriculture 2.0, with the operational application of simplification: reduction of business registers (three registers in one) with 50% less data required unnecessarily; databases that unify information, anagraphs, insert automatisms that save days dedicated to bureaucracy. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we choose to change systems and instruments. Today we are formally, but also in essence, embracing the idea of an agriculture that focuses on its own vocations, which strongly believes in competitive factors, that in order to win needs a system Country that is not paternalistic and welfare, but that points with conviction its energies to support those who produce and propose an idea of enterprise capable of existing in a global world. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Young people who collect tradition from the elderly, but who are motivated to face unprecedented challenges. Companies linked to the typicality and the locality, but grouped on common platforms capable of covering them on global markets. A country system that provides tools and rules of support and valorization of the vocations of each. Ladies and gentlemen, the time for opposition is over. In our country there is room for companies with diversified plans, which aim at internal or international markets. What the public has to do is to remove all obstacles that inhibit its implementation. We are at this point today and demagogy, which sometimes more by political role than by real conviction fills the space of discussion and confrontation, makes no sense anymore. He did not have it in his work in the Commission, frank and thorough; he did not have it in comparison with the Government; no one was worried about planting flags, but we all worked, trying to do what it takes. We are at the point where we can send a positive message to those young people who still do not believe that agriculture, agri-food, fisheries and aquaculture can be areas on which to build their future. Many speeches in this House have once again tried to plunge us into that view of rurality as backwardness and assistance as the only policy. That vision that has trapped the debate and political commitment for years without leaving room for reflection on the future: if we fall back everything would have been useless. From here must start a constructive message that speaks of good products, cultivated in good land, legal and dignified work. From here we must start our conviction in supporting those who do business. Everything easy? No, but you can't go back. There's no past to go back to. There are new repositionings to be defined, new competitive factors to focus on: binomials such as tradition and technologies, naturalness and nutritional values, product and intangible components, service content in a society that has less and less time. We must facilitate this process, the public component must play its part and we are doing it today. We simplify bureaucracy for businesses, making the relationship with public administration more transparent. It rationalises and reorganizes the myriad of bodies supervised by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy in order to improve the efficiency of the services rendered to the productive system. The focus is on young people, business networks, strengthening logistics, protecting production and innovation. The instruments available for modernising the fisheries sector are strengthened. The sector is brought within the reform process of this Government and this majority. After years in which agriculture has been in the exclusive hands of the Regions, with 21 different rural plans, bound in European policies, today national politics takes back the definition of strategies to build a country system that is up to our companies. For these reasons, the PD Group will vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u34	Before we proceed to the final vote, I warn you that the rapporteur has tabled the proposal for coordination C1. I'll ask Senator Formigoni if you'll explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u35	Madam President, I would just like to say a few words to the House that it is a question of correcting Rule 7 merely Article 8 to a mere formal omission and Article 29 to coordination with measures previously taken, but we never intervene in substance.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u36	Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote the proposal for coordination C1, tabled by the rapporteur. It's approved. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the bill as a whole, in the amended text, with the following title: Delegations to the Government and further provisions on the simplification, rationalisation and competitiveness of the agricultural, agri-food, fisheries and aquaculture sectors. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u39	Formigoni, rapporteur. Madam President, I will take less than a minute to thank the Members of this House who voted, but above all the Members of the Commission, with whom the work has been very intense on everyone's part. I would also like to thank the Government and in particular Deputy Minister Olivero. I would like to remind the Government, as other colleagues have already done, that we consider this measure to be a starting point and not a point of arrival and we expect the Commission to accelerate, in short, a greater speed on so many points that we have talked about and that are waiting for a qualitative leap. We have entrusted many delegations to the government, so we expect them to be met quickly. The reform of the supervisory bodies is pressing; the new implementation of the common agricultural policy (CAP), the battle in Europe on labelling and protection against counterfeiting are issues on which this Government will really have to demonstrate its quality. We hope and want this because it is the agricultural world that awaits it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u42	Mr Olivero, Deputy Minister for Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy. Madam President, I would also like to express my sincere thanks to the House and to all the groups which have contributed (sometimes critical but important) to the work that has led to the adoption of this measure. I would particularly like to thank the Commission and its President, Mr Formigoni, who was also rapporteur, for the commitment he has just mentioned, to the Government to be timely and timely in responding to the indications that the approved measure imposes on us both as regards the delegations and for the areas that need further measures that we must take in the coming months. I really believe, as has been pointed out by many, that today's is an important step, but I also believe that the method by which we have achieved this result is also important. Certainly more time has been needed than anticipated at the beginning, but it has been well spent, because nothing that has been done in the Commission has been lost and I am sure that it will be further enhanced in the work that the Government will now have to do to make concrete the delegation that has been entrusted to us. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u43	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1758. The rapporteur, Senator Guerra, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u44	Madam President, since the draft law of which I am rapporteur, as you know, is very complex because it deals with so many issues, I ask the Presidency to authorise it to attach the full text of the report to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u45	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u46	WARRA, rapporteur. I shall therefore confine myself to giving an overall view and to recalling what I believe to be the most important aspects of this measure, particularly those on which the Commission's work has been significant. Meanwhile I recall the fact that, according to Law No 234 of 2012, the bill of European delegation must be submitted by the Government to the Chambers by February 28 of each year, with indication of the reference year, as well as every year the draft law of European law must be presented. I would therefore like to point out, in anticipation, that this year there has been an innovation compared to previous years as the iter of these two important bills are following their path, respectively, to the House and the Senate and not, as was the case in the past, in succession. The sharing of the examination between the two political committees of the European Union of the Senate and the Chamber, which are therefore working simultaneously, without time for suspension, could be more functional in terms of the speed of the legislative process. The bill we are talking about was defined by the Council of Ministers of 30 October 2014 and presented to the Senate on 5 February 2015. I now turn quickly to the contents of this draft law to recall, first of all, that the annexes now contain 56 directives (while originally there were 41) and the delegation for the implementation of nine framework decisions, which were six in the original text. The draft law is accompanied, as required by the law, by the explanatory report, which indicates a series of data and information relating to the state of conformity of the national law with EU law, the directives to be transposed administratively and the measures by which the individual regions have transposed the directives of the European Union into their fields of competence. The data contained in the report of this bill are referred to December 31, 2013, but the Government added an update until September 30, 2014. I remember, however, that it expired on 28 February last the deadline for the presentation of the bill of delegation for 2015 and its explanatory report which was to contain the data updated to 31 December 2014. It seems to me important to recall the most up-to-date data on infringement procedures, which are updated to 29 April 2015 and which tell us that the number of procedures in our country has fallen to 92 cases, 73 of which are for infringement of EU law and 19 for failure to transpose directives. Since the beginning of the parliamentary term, the burden of infringements has been slow, but gradually decreased. Surely with the approval of this bill this number will be reduced significantly, placing Italy in a more sustainable situation regarding the burden of infringements. It is also important to have provided, thanks to Law No 234 of 2012, a plurality of instruments for transposing European legislation in order to manage the large mass of regulation coming from the European institutions. I now turn to the examination carried out by the Commission and going a little further into the details of the contents, I would remind you that the examination in 14a The Commission started on 4 March 2015 and ended on 1 April 2015, in full compliance with the deadlines set out in the Regulation. I would like to say this because it was a very close job, for which I thank Mr Chiti and all the Members of the Commission first of all. There are so many issues. I would like to call on some of them to give you the idea of the complexity of the measure. Directives have been transposed concerning the safety of human organs intended for transplantation and the common system of taxation applicable to parent companies and subsidiaries of different Member States; the Directive on the European criminal investigation order and e-invoicing of public contracts; the Directive on the return of cultural goods unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State, to which we have added, for example, the Directive on compensation for damage caused by infringements of antitrust provisions, as well as the Directive on the automatic exchange of information in the tax field and the Directive on the possibility for Member States to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms on their territory. [[Brusio.]] My attention in this desperate report... desperate because with this noise, Madam President, it is really difficult to concentrate...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u47	You are right, but despite my invitations and bells, there is unfortunately little listening.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u48	WARRA, rapporteur. In any case, the crucial issue on which I would like to focus is the fact that this package of directives intervenes in a very significant and very broad way, also because of the valuable work done in the Commission on banking and financial markets, with the aim of creating an organic regulatory framework with different aims: stability and transparency of markets, but also the protection of savers and investors. The most significant directives certainly concern the process of achieving the European Banking Union, which is finally being transposed into our legal system and which, as you all know, are designed to create an integrated financial framework with the aim of integrating financial stability and minimising the cost of bank failure. The articles of the bill in our examination deal with the three fundamental pillars of the European Banking Union. Article 3 regulates the single supervisory mechanism, provided for in Regulation No 1024 of 2013, which is already operational in our legal system, but which must be transposed for reasons of coordination, which gives the European Central Bank specific tasks of prudential supervision of credit institutions, in cooperation with the national supervisory authorities of the participating countries. In Article 7, we have the rules on banking crises in order to limit, through a harmonised surveillance system, both the dangers arising from banking crises, and the use of public funding to save institutions, with preventive instruments, immediate intervention and resolution. The Commission has taken action to better modulate the guiding principles in order to ensure an exchange of information between the national resolution authority, i.e. the Bank of Italy, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance, to which, according to our indications, the final decision must belong with regard to interventions which have an impact on the budget or systemic implications. The third pillar relates to deposit guarantee schemes, referred to in Article 6, which, innovatively, requires a transition from an ex post contribution system, where funds are called in case of need, to an ex ante contribution system, where funds are paid periodically up to a fixed percentage of protected deposits. The Commission has also taken action in this case, indicating criteria relating to the deposits benefiting from the coverage and guarantee schemes, the timing of the reimbursements, the coverage and so on. In addition to this package on the European Banking Union, I would like to mention the MiFID2 and MiFIR package on the markets for financial instruments and investment services, to strengthen the discipline of the securities market by providing supervisory authorities with strong powers. A path that we have taken while Parliament was still engaged in a similar operation that concerned the banking sector with the CRDIV and the related CRR Regulation that transposed the third Basel Agreement into our legal system. There has therefore been an interaction between these two processes and a need for coordination, carried out by the Commission with further details and actions aimed at ensuring efficiency and effectiveness in supervisory action and simplifying the burden on supervised entities. I would like to refer to other directives quickly to give you an idea of the completeness of the intervention, which should draw Parliament's attention to the importance of this bill. I recall Article 4 on the harmonisation of transparency requirements for information on issuers whose securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market, in implementation of Directive No 50 of 2013 and other Directives on transparency and information that the Commission has made even more detailed in its principles to make them sufficiently stringent. I would also remind you of Article 9 on the discipline of certain UCITS (Collective Investment Organisations for Securities); Article 10 on the Community Regulation on Market Abuse, a very important issue with actions in the field of administrative and criminal sanctions consistent also with the recent ECHR ruling, aimed at avoiding the so-called double penalty track, as well as interventions by the Constitutional Court. These are directives added in the debate in the Commission accompanied by guiding principles; Article 11 on the organisation of central securities depositories; Article 12 on information documents accompanying retail investment products and pre-assembled insurance, the so-called PRIIPs. They are very technical subjects, but they have a fundamental importance in the functioning of our markets. An important intervention contained in this measure concerns the issue of framework decisions taken before the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty, which, after the five-year standstill period provided for in the Treaty, must be transposed in a compulsory manner. It is very important that nine framework decisions, compared with the initial six, have now been transposed with this bill. I conclude the report by saying that there has also been an intervention to guide the future work of the Government, in particular through the adoption of several agendas. I would like to mention one in particular, the agenda No 7, which I presented on behalf of the entire Commission, which recalls the rule of Article 39 (2) of Law No 234, concerning the quarterly information of the President of the Council to the Council of Ministers on the transposition of the European directives which expire in the following six months and on the reasons for the failure or delay of transposition. Given the fundamental importance of the timely and detailed acquisition of this information also by Parliament, the agenda calls on the Government to forward this information to the Chambers at the same time as it is forwarded to the Council of Ministers. This is precisely because we are all aware that following these transposition procedures is not a secondary task, given the importance for our Parliament of the issues dealt with. I referred to this agenda, which I tabled on behalf of the Commission and which was accepted, not only to say that it was accepted, but also that on 27 April 2015 we had the first transmission by the Government of this report with the Senate Act 553 which takes into account the list of directives with transposition deadline 30 September 2015 and the state of implementation thereof, which, moreover, is a rather comforting picture. In thanking the 14th Commission again for its work, I urge Parliament to pay attention to this type of procedure, because - I repeat - the regulations that come to us, for the constraint of belonging to the European Union, affect important issues that lead to fundamental innovations on which we sometimes close our eyes and then propose to intervene on marginal points, perhaps passing days and days to debate on individual amendments, while the beam, that is the main part of the regulatory intervention on that subject, has already gone into general indifference through the laws of European delegation. [[Applause from the PD Group and from the government benches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u49	I declare the general discussion open. She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u50	Here we are, discussing yet another delegation to the government. Might as well close the doors and go home. [[Senator Cardinal's comments.]] If we continue to delegate the Government, all we do is say: "You do it!" It would be fine if this were the function of the Government, but since this is not the case - because the function of law-making is given to the Chambers - the Government should perform an executive function. In this case, instead, not only does the government want to legislate, but it also wants to have the delegation to the action. Of course this is a very silly system, but so much so. Today we are talking about the transposition of certain directives and the implementation of other acts of the European Union, as provided for in Law No 234 of 2012. The key words to be deciphered, however, are different from those that are read in the provision. In the retro-thought of the "healthy carriers" of these delegations, in fact, there is a binomial very well known to these benches, consisting of the words: "delays" and "dilations." According to the latest update available, the number of infringement proceedings against our country is 92, of which 73 for violation of EU law and 19 for failure to transpose directives. On the dedicated website of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, among other things, there is no mystery of the "smart ears" that Italy has earned, infringement after infringement, over the years, and it is possible to see - figures at hand - one of the many dark sides of the Renzi Government, what no trained party spreader, of course, will ever tell you. In fact, we are talking about the most recurrent Community sin in Italy: to let go, to delegate and not to act in time. The extensive database containing the list of open infringement procedures against us is more eloquent than the many twists of words that the Premier impappina in his fates beyond the border: Italy transposes little and evil, this is the truth. There is nothing missing from the appeal of transgressions and failure is worthy of the last of the class. We go from ignoring non-transposition to genuine infringement of EU law. The subjects? They are the most disparate: justice, transport, energy, labour and social affairs, taxation and customs, just to give examples. This list, in addition to being very long, turns out to be dramatically alarming because, out of absurdity, the themes that should be free from procedures are, in fact, the most popular ones in the championship of non-compliances. the primacy, in fact, goes to the environment, with 16 open procedures. From the database of horrors, then, we learn that Italy has received 39 letters of formal notice, which is equivalent to saying that, in the state of affairs, 39 times the Commission has detected the actual violation of a rule of law of the European Union. In 26 cases, the Commission even found itself issuing a reasoned opinion with a formal warning to comply. Thanks to you we are the "first of the class," but on the contrary. To understand us, it has happened that Italy, 26 times in a row, has not provided satisfactory clarifications or, worse, has not responded within the deadlines. To tell the truth, the Commission, with the wrongdoers, does not exactly have the attitude of the condescending father of the family in front of the whims of the brat son. The sanctions are salty and - look at this - always fall on the shoulders of the citizens. For example, on 2 December 2014, the Court of Justice imposed a fine of EUR 40 million on Italy for non-compliance with European legislation on waste management and landfills. To this fine must be added €42.8 million, for each semester of non-compliance. So, in short, an encyclopedia of sanctions and delays that ensure to our country the reputation of the last of the class with easy drowsiness. And laziness is shown - at times flaunted - not only at European level, but also at home, in the transition to the branches of Parliament. Suffice it to say that this bill was approved at the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2014 and it took more than six months to arrive in the Chamber, dragging itself into an elephantic to say the least. Italy, therefore, year after year, does nothing but reconfirm the black shirt of the slowness and inability to transpose. This is because while the implementation of directives and framework decisions is delegated, sanctions are imposed for infringements of Union legislation and one single text is created for the reordering and harmonization of rules in different areas, it happens, and I repeat, happens, that rules such as snack cabbages, your scumbags are inserted, in short. Practice that, inevitably, makes even more baroque and daunting a path that should be fast and painless. We, for our part, have tried to correct the shooting of certain provisions. For seasonal workers, we have proposed specific delegation criteria with greater protection and appropriate sanctions for wrongdoers. Also on the subject, with an agenda at my first signature, the Government has undertaken to follow up the demands of the workers of the former British American Tobacco, especially in Lecce, where the situation has become unsustainable. Furthermore, we have called for greater public participation in the revision of the environmental assessment legislation and proposed that the proceeds of administrative sanctions be allocated to the protection of citizens in the event of natural disasters and disasters. Taxis, these, that could significantly affect in a daily not too distant. On 31 July 2014, the Undersecretary for European policies Gozi, commenting on the preliminary green light of the Council of Ministers on this measure, apostrophaced it as, I read, not to miss even a comma: "a package that we politically link to the Presidency of the Union, which is also measured by the transposition of European norms in Italy." I wonder if anyone has reminded him that the Presidency has ended a long time ago, and that the link - if he wants, by now - can only do so delayed because we are - not only politically - out of time. I conclude by saying that these roof tiles coming to us from Brussels are yet another proof of how inadequate this government is. He obeys Europe for taxes and cuts, but on rights and welfare he slips away. Throw down the mask and have the courage to tell the citizens that you care about them, that you do not want to avoid yet another figure in Europe, that you do not care about their well-being, that you do not care about anything but to occupy the red chair in here. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u51	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u52	Madam President, I would like to begin by stressing that it is the first time since the so-called doubling of the former Community law entered into force that the law of European delegation and European law are not dealt with jointly by the same branch of Parliament. It escapes the ratio of this choice of splitting the exam, also because we certainly do not believe that it serves to speed up the times of examination or approval since, however, since they are two laws that each have their own life, they could still be considered the same. We can therefore say that we are one year behind the road map and therefore Law 234 of 2012 which, thanks to the doubling of Community law, had to serve to speed up the procedures for transposing the directive and to resolve open infringement procedures, has resoundingly failed in its intention. With regard to the issue related to the infringements, undersecretary Gozi, on 12 May 2015 stated that when the Renzi Government took office, it found 121 infringements opened by the Commission against Italy and today reduced them to 92, claiming, therefore, the commitment. He also said: "We are focusing mainly on those caused by the non-transposition of directives." I do not think it is acceptable that we should focus solely on non-transposition of directives, even if the measure under consideration deals precisely with this: transposition of directives is fine, but if they are then transposed incorrectly, then it was even preferable not to accept them. By taking them so much in order to do their homework, as someone has always said in this House, there is a risk of increasing the number of infringement procedures for infringement of European law. So we need some attention on these issues. Some infringements certainly concern issues dealt with in this House several times and which have been the subject of rivers of hours in the Commission, especially in the Environment Commission: I am referring to the famous environmental problems, especially as regards the so-called land of fires and the problems related to the issue of waste in the Campania area and Naples. On the other hand, as regards the question of banks, there is also a great deal about this measure and a delegation should be given to the Government. After the mess that you have combined with the last measure on the populars (also there it was a bad choice), if it gives me so much, other than giving you the delegations! You should also take away the ones you already have. As for banks, I invite you to go with a medium or small entrepreneur, or even a small family-run company (e.g. construction), and see if they give you any funding to do some intervention. I bet the bank's sliding door doesn't open either, ma'am. They turn directly the sign with written: the bank is closed. We have tabled so many amendments on this subject, and we will see how you are going to act in the process of being adopted. We'd also give you the delegations. There are delegations that should not be given anymore to a government that has only and exclusively committed itself to putting trust, continuously. We do not give you any delegations and we do not want to know anything about giving you white delegations, especially if they come from a Europe that this Movement has fought and has harshly criticized for its system that was probably not that of those who had thought and founded it. We said no more white delegations. This Group has no intention of enabling this Government to deal with issues relating to the lives of its citizens. No more delegations, especially for those we have given, with previous laws, to Monti, who had a delegation to represent this country. You gave another proxy to Letta for the same reason. Renzi, on the other hand, delegated it through his political secretariat. We spoke in the previous order... president. Please, I invite you to conclude, Senator Council. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Articles are 17. However, we would have liked to have delegated to you on Article 18 for the introduction of flat tax; we would have given you another delegation on Article 19 for the reduction of public debt. I also recall the article, 20 which delegates the Government to immediately return the miscarriage to the citizens as regards the Fornero question, following the sentence. We would also like to give a delegation to the Government on Article 21, which spoke of energy and industrial strategy; on Article 22, which concerned Made in Italy and Italian quality, as well as on Article 23, which delegates the Government to monitor itself for the tax on lifts and agricultural IMU. In conclusion, Madam President, I also mention the delegation to revise and abolish that unnecessary and harmful Stability Pact. Here the government would have had all the powers of this world and, of course, of our Movement. As for the banks, we said that a delegation would gladly have given it if the government had dealt mainly with microcredit. At this point I would delegate the Government to this effect: I would ask the Government to give us back these six months that we have lost with a useless European semester. We'd like to do it again, maybe with another system. Thank you for your patience, Madam President, and I shall close my speech here. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u53	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am unfortunately forced to see for the umpteenth time that this House is not called upon to express itself on a draft law conceived by the Government. Although the President of the Council and the Minister for Economic Affairs are officially among the draftsmen of the bill, we are in fact again in a position to ratify decisions taken by the European summits. This, unfortunately, has become a sad occasion. Parliament is completely stripped of its legislative powers and deprived of the role assigned to it by the Constitutional Charter. It must be thought that democracy certainly does not live its best times. 11.15 a.m. (De PIN follow-up). We are therefore called upon to discuss a draft law which involves the radical transformation of the Italian banking system, because in the article that has been submitted to us we have rules and measures that are fully enforceable in our legislation. I am referring in particular to Regulation No 1024 of 2013, present in the draft law under discussion and directly applicable in Italian legislation, without any implementing rules. It lays the foundations for the establishment of the single supervisory mechanism, that is, the measure which increases even more, as if there were need, the supervisory and supervisory powers of the ECB, which will now be able to sanction our banks directly. Our country, treated like the Cinderella of Europe, will thus lose the residual powers of control over the banking system that it still exercised through the Bank of Italy and the Ministry of the Treasury, now completely freed from their traditional functions. But this is only the antechamber of something much more disturbing, which we find in subsequent Directives 2014/49/EU and 2014/59/EU, contained in Articles 5 and 6. I am referring to those measures concerning the deposit guarantee system and the resolution of bank crises. I quote the words of Governor Visco, who perhaps better than anyone else explained what this is about: The banks must inform their customers that they may have to contribute to the consolidation of a bank. A statement that in other times would have aroused concern, but that today does not arouse any stir. It is well known that we are at the time of sharing risk and losses for the public and the privatisation of profits for a small group of private individuals. A German philosopher said that the absurd makes a lot of fortune in the world. It must be particularly true in this world that European standards are being overturned. In fact, in order to solve what is a structural crisis resulting from a merger between commercial banks and investment banks in the 1990s, in Brussels they thought well to give birth to this mysterious object that is the bail-in, that is the possibility that those who have deposited more than 100,000 euros can share the losses of the bank. If this is not enough, then it will be the turn of the European Union's bank fund; the States will only be able to intervene in the last instance. So little will the State be able to do to protect the banking system and the shareholders, because this hierarchy puts it at the last place, almost as if it were a harmful nuisance. The real lesson to be learned from all this is that paying for reckless transactions in financial markets will be neither managers nor those who have failed to comply with their supervisory obligations. The weight of bank bailouts will weigh - and this is the paradox of European policies - on those who have contributed most to the bank's financing. Yet we were told that, after the crisis of past years, the system would have to achieve greater harmony and stability and that now the new European banking union would finally solve the problem at its root. Is this harmony, then, to be expected? What stability did European legislators think of when they conceived these measures? It is curious how for the European summits and for the government itself, the best way to solve a crisis is to do absolutely nothing and not worry too much. You just have to stay in your place, and let it all go down. President Renzi himself stated that it was not the government's job to make industrial plans when this was once one of his main prerogatives. What solutions, then, does the law of a European delegation offer us? It basically tells us that we must put in the hands of the ECB those few powers that we have left, not make too much noise and kindly bring in the few pieces of sovereignty that we still have. I conclude by reminding myself and this House that our Constitutional Charter states in Rule 47: The Republic encourages and protects savings in all its forms; it regulates, coordinates and controls the exercise of credit. It favours the access of popular savings to the property of the house, to the direct agricultural property and to the direct and indirect investment stock in the great productive complexes of the Country. Here, I realize that citing and calling for respect for the Charter in these times dominated by one thought may seem a heresy, but I just can't see where the protection of savings, control and exercise of credit in this bill is. In all this, I am comforted by the fact that our Constitutional Court is still somehow trying to stem this unconstitutional drift. I am referring to the judgment that the Consultative Committee has just given on the revaluation of pensions. The government speaks to us of the new that advances as a promised land, but this is increasingly like a desert of social rights and constitutional principles. If we do not start again from the Constitution, the future of banks and accountants will be even worse than the past that we have left behind. [[Applause from Senator Bocchino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u55	We greet the students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo - Pietro Marcellino Corradini - in Rome, who are attending our work from the stands. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u56	Senator Cattaneo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u57	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked to speak in this debate in order to discuss with you an aspect of the draft law related to European Directive No 412 of 2015, which allows States to choose independently whether or not to cultivate GMOs. I want to deal with a subject which is represented on a specific agenda, which is bribed but independent of cultivation, namely the recommendation made in the context of the directive itself to promote scientific research on GMOs in its entirety. I realize that talking about GMOs is very difficult: just to pronounce its name, they trigger conditioned reflections of rejection, which associate them with multinationals, large monocultures, unknown risks to health and the environment, fear of contamination of traditional crops. I wonder if we can try not to do this for the next fifteen minutes, because I would like to discuss with you public research in the field of GMOs, that is, public research in many European countries, even those that are against the commercial cultivation of GMOs. I would like to talk to you about public research based on biotechnology to protect our typical nature, to protect our plants in the fields in which they are grown, to reduce the use of harmful pesticides, to develop biotechnology on non-patented seeds and to allow Italian agriculture to remain or become more competitive overall. This is my specific intention with you today. GMOs are genetically modified plants, like all those that man has domesticated since the invention of agriculture onward. It is a technology that is no longer new, we all know that. Until now, this technology moved a gene of interest from a species - for example a bacterium resistant to a parasite - to another species - for example maize - to give the many different types of maize resistance to those harmful parasites and thus significantly reduce the use of dangerous pesticides. Today biotechnology does much more and, I would say, much better and we cannot stand by: they move genes of interest between plants of the same species (a gene of a resistant apple moved in another apple tree) or they turn off a gene in another plant in order to improve it, so they do not introduce anything new from the outside. I spent months studying these aspects, studying how agricultural researchers in other countries do research on these plants, using biotechnology, with what goals. Their governments support their experimentation in the open field. I have studied the techniques for producing them, the procedures for protecting experimental fields, so that nothing goes out and nothing enters, the data on safety, their use in food, the environmental impact, etc. In studying these issues I also had to face the contradictions of our country and confess that I was passionate about the topic, without having any direct interest. I am interested, in fact, to understand how we deal, in a secular society, with a theme perceived as controversial and full of contradictions, that touches our deepest emotions, our most extreme sensibilities, such as the dependence on food and good food, the Italian tradition and our idea of the "natural therefore good"; a truly culturally fascinating theme in which we must insert the facts. As I have told you, the agenda I have presented is not about commercial cultivation, but about what can be studied upstream of all this. The same directive, in leaving Member States free, recommends investment in research. The agenda aims to give our researchers the opportunity to study our plants, it aims to leave our public researchers, together with farmers, free to understand how to prevent our plants, those that interest us and that we have in our fields, from being devastated, at our latitudes, by so many parasites. I am talking - and I would like to clarify this once again - not about the generation of supposedly approved and standardised plants, produced with multinational seeds, but, on the contrary, about how biotechnology, especially new biotechnology, not GMOs (i.e. those that do not move genes from one species to another, but that use genes of the same species) can help to protect the typicalness of Italian products and plants, which otherwise - you know - would soon be lost (many are already lost). I am also talking - and I would also like to speak about this - about the issue of freedom of research; about the freedom of research on GMOs in the field, what the many European countries that have never prevented this activity do. On the other hand, the projects of our university researchers or research institutes controlled by the Ministry of Agriculture have been closed in the drawers for fifteen years. So, we pay scientists to discover, invent, teach and apply things of national utility that, at the same time, prevent them from accomplishing. I realize that this blockage to public research is the result of the aversion that has grown over the years towards the commercial cultivation of GMOs and the multinationals that produce GMOs. But, ladies and gentlemen, these are the same multinationals that we are now dependent on for non-GMO seeds. I also realize that the aversion is towards the idea of this type-approval, towards total control over the production of vital goods, but commercial cultivation and public research on plants are two different things. The first can be blocked by paying a high economic price - and I do not think so - but we cannot ban ourselves from studying something insofar as procedures are safe (and they are). Banning research, ladies and gentlemen, is like censoring freedom of expression: a fundamental right is violated. I would like to be clear again on one concept: preventing full-scale trials on GMOs means preventing public research, because the only real research on GMOs is the one experimenting with genetic improvements in the field conditions that attack that plant. Italy has done this for thirteen years, it has prevented knowledge by prohibiting experimentation in the open field, while in the rest of Europe thousands of trials of GMOs have been carried out in the field, even in countries such as Germany and France that oppose commercial cultivation. See that the position of our country becomes even more peculiar and even contradictory when it is discovered that, while public biotechnology research on plants is banned in general, we import and eat GMOs - so to speak - classic and now old generation. This is the first contradiction from which we draw the agenda on public research: we ban them, but we import them; we eat them massively for twenty years, but we do not study them. By the way, if we eat them, the first thing that comes to mind is that, therefore, it is not true that they are dangerous to health and that we can do without them. You can't lie. The country must be told that we do not want to grow them, but we buy them in tons; we feed the farms and then end up in our dish, in the forms of Parmesan cheese Reggiano or in the ham of San Daniele. This contradiction travels along with another paradox that interests me in the agenda. We have the terror of the monopoly of multinationals (always those to which we give the monopoly also of non-GMO seeds, let us never hide this), but at the same time we leave them free by not investing in research, in the sense that we do nothing to limit their monopoly. Let us not move a step in the search for ways of protecting and strengthening our seeds and our typicality. We don't even have a seed industry in our country anymore. We ban things we care about. Let's eat what we don't study. We deliver to the multinationals, not producing innovation. I now come to the second contradiction, which is even more relevant to the agenda. Our plants are invaded by parasites and we are losing some typical farming that we are proud of in the world, because we do not want to study, experiment and use GMOs and non-GMO bio-technologies. All or almost all of the seeds that we plant in Italy are designed abroad, even garden plants. Forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, but this agenda does not call for support for commercial cultivation, which we leave to others, to Spain, from which we will then buy. The aim is not to tax GMOs produced by multinationals, it is not to have apples approved. The objective is the opposite: to urge with you a public reflection on the contradictions of our policy on the subject, to understand if the public research that uses agricultural biotechnology can be useful, at least to protect and maintain our typical plants. We're losing too many. There are projects that have been closed in the drawers for years, which you should read, I'll tell you one. It is a public GMO, all Italian, even eco-sustainable. Italy - as we know - exports apples all over Europe: they are typical products, from the beautiful apples of our colleagues in Trentino to those of the Aosta Valley, to the annurche bells. Among other things, in our country these plantations also have a remarkable environmental and cultural importance and, some, come from the Middle Ages. However, the climate has changed and throughout the world - I repeat all over the world - the apple trees are attacked by a scourge, a fungus responsible for the most serious and widespread disease of apples: the tickling, which damages the plant and produces spots on the fruit, making it no longer commercial. Last year in a Region of Italy more than 30 pesticide treatments were carried out to protect apples from parasites. Organic apples are also treated with the chemical substances allowed for this type of cultivation. It is the copper salts, a heavy, toxic metal, which remains in the soil for decades. Would it not be nice to have apples that resist the disease, so that the number of treatments with agropharmaceuticals would be drastically reduced? Here is the story of Professor Silviero Sansavini of the University of Bologna, a distinguished gentleman, now professor emeritus, who is over seventy years old. Together with Professor Tartarini he discovers that a wild apple is immune from the ticking because it carries a gene, called Vf, that protects it and is a gift of nature. It's a natural selection. Researchers try to cross this wild apple with the apples that we are used to eating, but they fail because, during the crossing, not only passes the gene of interest, but they can also thousands or hundreds of other genes that remove the organoleptic value to that apple. Sansavini and Tartarini, in a university laboratory, take an apple of the Gala variety, one of the favorites by the Italians, but it must be sprayed with dozens of treatments, and implant that gene, what makes it immune from the parasite. It was the years 1992-1993, and Italy was at the forefront of the world in the field of agricultural biotechnology. Our agricultural geneticists still held the flag of Nazareno Strampelli in the world, universally recognized as the founder of plant improvement on a scientific basis. But let's go back to the apples. After a few years, the first trials on the Gala apple, made on apples grown in greenhouses, give the results hoped for and, in 2002, our country is the first in the world to reach a result desired by everyone. In Bologna there are genetically modified apple trees, which would reduce the environmental impact, if cultivated, but they are in a drawer. Do we have to be afraid of this apple? It is called cisgenic, because a gene moves from one plant to another plant of the same species. It is not designed to be sold together with a pesticide. On the contrary, it greatly reduces its need, and the plant must not be bought back every year by the farmer. Professor Sansavini could have patented gene transfer technology, but he wouldn't. He thought it wasn't fair and made it public. Anyone in the world can use that method to produce disease-resistant apples. It is a beautiful story, but it ends here, with the satisfaction of a professor that he was the first in the world to achieve a result that everyone wanted, but also with the professional laceration of never having seen his discovery in the field, because the Ministry of Agriculture, since 2002, prohibits experimentation in the open field. And you know what the others did? Holland and Switzerland have developed the use of the gene discovered by Sansavini, have had permission to grow outdoors, with all safety standards, and now have apple fields resistant to disease. There are many examples of this kind. Professor Eddo Rugini, of the University of Tuscia, assisted impotent, on June 12, 2012, at the burning of thirty years of knowledge: the destruction of his kiwi plants, cherry trees, but also of genetically modified olive trees to resist some parasites or to better tolerate drought. Decades of research have been destroyed by the lack of renewal of an authorisation. I would also like to mention Francesco Sala, who died in 2011, the great geneticist of my university, the State of Milan. Not being able to experience in the field its Valdostan apples resistant to the parasite Melolontha, a larva that eats the roots, and its Carnaroli rice, now very rare for the attack of a fungus, dedicated itself to the development of poplars resistant to insects, which finally managed to see cultivated, but not in Italy, China, where there are hundreds of thousands of hectares. And we can also mention the San Marzano tomato, which no longer exists. It was a typicality of which Campania was the largest producer in Italy. But the plant is attacked by viruses with horrible acronyms: CMV, TSWV, CAMV. There are no antiviral preparations. In the 2000s some researchers were working on genes capable of resisting this viral attack. The project is in the drawer, and of our typical tomato San Marzano there is no trace anymore. Between the nineties and two thousand, we were at the forefront in the field of biotechnology in agriculture on our typical products, to protect them: apples, olive trees, cherries, tomatoes, kiwis, peppers, rice, vine, eggplant and much more; our products, of our agriculture, which do not affect any multinational. He expected only a regulation from the ministries responsible to be able to carry out, safely, the field trials. Exactly as a life-saving drug must be tested in humans in order to check for safety and efficacy. But since 2000, Italian politics has decided to block everything. The rules were never enacted. Do you know what, in my opinion, was the main mistake? The fact of not realizing that our researchers, in our public research centers, were working on our needs, all Italian. One senator asked me - and I thank him, because the question is right and relevant - how to deal with the fear of contamination, following open field testing with GMOs. The question arises spontaneously, if you are not specialized on the subject or if you have not studied it, but each of us studies different topics. This fear is canceled, as the other 19 European countries that experiment in the open field have done, by applying strict protocols that reduce the risk of contamination to zero. These protocols include technical solutions that specialists know well and are applied in countries that border with us and do research in the open field. These are also technical issues, with problems and solutions managed in a completely different way than commercial cultivation, including at European level. The harvest of an experimental field - let us bear it in mind - which is GMO or other experimental, can never enter the commercial or food chain, but remains available only for the scientific analysis of the research laboratories that carry out that experiment. The two supply chains are structurally separated by rule and it is assumed that this separation should be reiterated and underlined in the normal authorisation procedures. You know, ladies and gentlemen, it would not be the first time that we would experience GMO plants in the open field in Italy. Between 1992 and 2004 we cultivated in the open field almost 300 different types of GMO plants, without special laws and without inventing anything particular, but simply observing the rules and protocols defined plant per plant. We have set up dozens of GMO plants of tomato, eggplant, chicory, vine, strawberry, wheat, corn or salad, without the slightest problem. In the second half of the 1990s, tens of thousands of GMO maize fields were also cultivated in Italy, without any trace of them in terms of health and the environment. I would like to close, ladies and gentlemen, by stressing that perhaps today we have the opportunity to draw the Government's attention to an issue which, in my opinion, must be resolved, because of consistency. I repeat that there is no research into GMOs unless it is in the open. Science has a formidable quality, which I never hold back from telling young people. He doesn't know the expressions "it's too late," "we lost the train" or "what we can do with little resources in front of the giants of the world." In science only intelligence, ideas, ingenuity and not strength win. It would take very little: it would be enough, that is, to gather the European Union's recommendation to support public research in the full field on GMOs and non-GMOs, in order to give hope to a sector of the Italian economy that is strategic in relation to the future. If this were to happen, it would also be a sign of our country's will to rekindle the flame of knowledge on this subject. [[Applause from the Groups (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE), PD, FI-PdL XVII and AP (NCD-UDC) and Senators Bignami and Bocchino. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u58	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the law of a European delegation, as defined in the same title, is an instrument which Parliament has given to give the Government the power to transpose Community directives, which are specifically listed within the measure. Mr President, there are two distinct approaches through which Community directives can be transposed. One is the obsequious one, the area in which the power of the European Union is expressed, which is a very strong area of relationship at the level of governments and a little less substantial in terms of relations between parliaments, and it is a little less functional - in this contradiction of adjectives - to the relationship between the European Parliament and national parliaments. And there may be a way of ratifying decisions, already taken at government level and which have resulted, in the open relationship between the governments of the European Union and the Commission, and possibly the European Parliament, in legislative bodies, sent afterward to national parliaments, called upon to ratify decisions already taken. Then there may be a different approach. We intervene in the law of European delegation to define the boundaries within which the government can operate, which has not come before, because the ascending stages - you know better than I do - have a function of defining the provisions that are quite lacking in terms of the power that can be exercised. And the Government is not always free to fully represent the interests of the national community to which it refers, being much more forced, by the relations established in Europe with other governments, to respond to a common need, which is not always common but prevails over a common one because of the strength of one or more members of the European Union, one or more governments that constitute the European Council. On this, Mr President, I would like to point out - and I have also tabled a number of amendments - a limit on parliamentary action, including that of the contrast between our Constitution - but in that case a serious debate should be opened on what best protects the Italian Constitution - and the European Union's legislation to understand whether the Italian Constitution is subordinate, in some parts, to the decision taken at Community level. Moreover, we have an obligation to respect the Treaties. But even here we can open an interesting discussion on how we respect them, with reference to this topic, because the treatises are articulated compositions of norms with possible interpretations very distant from each other. In this case too, it is possible to identify a subordinate or proactive attitude, which can be undertaken when the regulatory content of such a heavy treaty is to be interpreted, from the point of view of limiting sovereignty, such as that of the European Union. So, around this reasoning, what do we do? Within the framework of the Constitution, according to which the Government can operate through legislative decrees, by delegation of Parliament, within the boundaries established by Parliament itself, we have proposed to define those limits, also through amendments, which I do not know whether to define "extensive" or "better interpretative" - i.e. better interpretative - of the contents of the same founding treaty of the European Union, of the treaties and general provisions that have followed. I say this by addressing a subject that is dear to me, Mr President, a little less expensive - for example - to Emilia-Romagna and a little more to Sardinia. I am referring to the island status of a region. Sardinia, the island region, is the only region cut off from the national transport networks - for example railway - although it is not the only one in Italy, since there is also Sicily. I wish I could get out of here, take a train and get to Cagliari, but I'm not physically allowed. And therefore, insularity is a condition not invented, but objective, of which one cannot ignore. On the contrary, we can also say that the general legislation of the European Union takes account of this, but the "fall" takes place within the legislation that, on this issue, has developed at national level. And if there is a lack of availability, it is not even found at European Union level, but more at national level. Compared to an objective fact, like this, there can be no discussion. Can I take the train from Rome to Cagliari? No, I cannot do that and, therefore, I am cut off from the rail transport network, although I am a European citizen, who has the right to move, like all European citizens. There is therefore a problem of fairness, of correct implementation of the Treaty and, consequently, of state intervention - and I believe that the European Union too - in order to allow the Sardinian citizen, or the European citizen, who wants to go to Sardinia, to move without having any additional obstacles. However, we are not cut off only from railway networks. Is there a metane net, with a tube that connects Sicily, Italy, Europe, Russia and Ukraine? It exists, but it does not arrive in Sardinia and therefore we are cut off also from the energy network and we have to make double effort also to be connected to the telephone double. Perhaps there is only one operator in Sardinia, which regulates - for example - the traffic of data transmission. And there's only one cable laid out of fiber optics. There is no multiplicity of managers, there is no competition and free competition, which are present in all other parts of our Italy, but also in the European Union. We can, then, take and implement the rules that are provided to us through the Community directives, which we have helped to build. The Community directives do not "rain" in Italy without having passed through the offices of the Ministries and through those offices where Italian representatives of the European Commission are also present. They go through those offices, and then Parliament has to ratify. Do you have to do it supinely? I call on all my colleagues to reflect on what has been, to date, the main reason why we have designed the European delegation law. Have we thought about it in order to better apply the Community directives which are shared rules and which, consequently, have contributed to the development of the European spirit in Italy, as in other parts of the European Union itself? Is that why we did it? That is why we invented the European delegation? No! We invented it to avoid sanctions, to avoid paying a price for not having applied provisions that we have helped to create through offices, and not through the free will of the people, i.e. through more bureaucratic paths than politicians, sometimes suffering, sometimes trying not to suffer, and sometimes - a few times - perhaps imposing, with some arrogance, our position. It is on this that the Europeanist conviction, not of Parliament in general, but of every single political force must be measured. Every single political force must decide whether it thinks of Europe as an unquestionable transfer, a resignation of national sovereignty or as an effective means of involving the entire national body and the entire national community in the construction of a broader political, social and cultural dimension, thus assuming the burden of making proposals that are productive in that direction. The framework which has been the essential element of European integration is that of overcoming discrimination and difficulties; it is that of the development of employment and the general interest that we are together to better deal with the difficulties that the times pose for men, Europeans and even Italians, and I say very quietly also to the Sardinians. If this is the case, then, if we see discrimination, we must intervene by introducing, within the limits set by Parliament to the Government for the production of legislative decrees transposing Community legislation, which is the subject of this measure, a more extensive content, i.e. no more limited limits because we have the concern of sanctions, but broader limits, because we have the duty to participate in the construction of a European Union of peoples and regions, democratic and with a progressive vision of its function in relation to the conditions of the national communities participating in it, of the international community and of the whole planet. In view of the fact that these are also directives with important content, because it is true that there is a directive that talks about water motorcycles, but there is also a directive that talks about the granting of communications functions that are relevant in terms of telematics. And there are directives which concern - for example - research, which was discussed earlier, the production or not of GMOs and the protection of the environment. So there are elements that, transversally and in a very precise way, affect the lives of people and local communities, which must therefore be taken into account. I have done so - we have done so - by tabling some amendments. And I want to focus on what concerns Sardinia's insularity, without being excessive, to say that it is a principle that applies to Sardinia's insularity, as it can apply to the economic and social conditions of some urban areas of our country or other European countries. That is to call the European Union to the popular judgment to which it is subjected every day. The results obtained so far cannot be trusted. The pro-European spirit has also won when, in some circumstances, the people have been called to express themselves because, in the meantime, it is not so and it has not always been so. And then we must consider the elements of division and selfishness that are part of the condition that we live today and that unfortunately belong to our community and also to individual people. They concern the way in which we make politics and we also relate to democratic institutions. This issue seriously endangers the European Union's integrity and the correct, timely and forward-looking implementation of the Treaties which have constituted it. Mr President, in thanking my fellow Members for listening to me, I say: let us work to ensure that Europe is there, by introducing, for our part and Parliament for its part, those conditions that are needed, so that those rules are truly in support of the national communities and of our own, in particular. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and PD Groups and Senators Bignami, Bocchino and Maurizio Romani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u60	Senator Comaroli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u61	Mr President, for years we have been living in a state of permanent exception which, as a well-known contemporary philosopher, Giorgio Agamben, says, has now become the rule. This happens in every area of our lives, both public and private. In private, in fact, we live today in a state of constant precariousness - precariousness of affections and above all of work - which leads us to a compulsory remodulation of the entire value structure, which has led our society to this day. In public life, in the same way, unbridled capitalism, individualism and globalization have blown up all the social and political paradigms that, through centuries, have led to the construction of the rule of law, in which, constitutionally, so-called second-generation social and economic rights were guaranteed. On these rights, in fact, the establishment of the social state, whose task was precisely to guarantee and promote the family, education and health, alongside work, fair pay, the social function of economic initiative, private and public property and savings, has been laboriously built. In short, the social rule of law, cost Europe, and especially its peoples, struggles, blood and revolutions, guaranteed the dignity of the individual. I am speaking in the past because today there is no longer that social state, dismantled, on the one hand, by the financial crisis and, on the other hand, by the emptying of state sovereignty by European integration; a European integration that creeps into every meander of the national state, emptying the Member States of authority, with obvious repercussions on the whole structure of social policies, without an adequate forecast of European policies that can replace the vacuum left by national governments. Added to this is the crisis, a crisis that has now become structural and which is taken as a justification for any intervention of tears and blood. And our citizens remember these interventions well and are still paying them. On the other hand, the theory that, in the event of an unfavorable economic situation, states must put expansive economic policies in the field of tax relief and support for taxpayers in difficulty, through a vast programme of social policies, is well-known, precisely those policies which, unfortunately, Europe has helped to undo, imposing austerity measures as a counterpart which have been criticized - as you all know - not only by world-famous economists such as Richard Koo, but also by the International Monetary Fund itself. Therefore, in the presence of systemic crises, only the use of virtuous public expenditure, according to an expansive policy line, can limit the effects of contraction of private demand, since it is up to the State to intervene in times of economic recession, so as not to risk crack. What did we do? Procyclical policies, under the ax of the German threat. And it is not I who say that we have made a mistake, but the Nobel Prize winner Paul Krugman says, who has declared, in no uncertain terms, how the Germans have inflicted sadistic therapy on their European partners. Plus what did we do? We have supported precisely those who have been responsible for this economic policy of carnage of families, businesses and our entire economic and productive system. Therefore, the remodulation of the banking and financial system will be well received. However, those interventions to implement prudential supervision, to provide deposit guarantee schemes, to introduce the bail-in principle and finally - I would say - for the modernisation of financial and banking markets should also come. But are all these directives and regulations, which are being lowered from the top, full of good intentions, enough? Are they enough to protect those who have so far paid out of their own pocket the mistakes of a few investors, to say the least without scruples, who, paraphrasing a well-known proverb, threw the rock and then hid the hand? Will it not be time to really give answers to the citizens, or rather solutions? It is necessary to give concrete and tangible solutions to those who have unjustly taken the wrongs of someone else. And so the League responds and wants to do so with concrete proposals: greater protection of savers, transparency, separation of banking systems and prohibition, even for central governments, of using risky financial instruments. Greater protection for savers means to stop public recapitalization, to ensure the reimbursement of deposits and to provide for a system that does not impose roads without their way out, such as - for example - all the obligations and charges to which they are subject even just to open a current account or the thousand artifices that banks manage to find in order to burden them with additional expenses. I am talking - for example - about trespasses, so that customers are forced to pay, in addition to the interest rate, which sometimes reaches the limit of wear, even a commission, which we had abolished, but which - by chance - the banks have re-introduced, calling it "prevalence expenses" or "secretary expenses." The concept is that the citizen must pay. Period. Transparency then means advertising and clarity of transactions in financial markets, regulated and non-regulated, it means more information about financial instruments - especially risky ones - and it also means putting customers in a position to know all the burdens and risks they face; instead it happens that the customer goes to the bank, they are put in front of packages of cards to sign, all written in small, and he understands nothing. True transparency means making a clear communication, making those who go to the bank aware of the risks that are taking place, but nothing is done here. We come to the separation of banking models: isn't it time to put an end to the abuse of financial levers and derivatives? It seems to me that the consequences of the casual use made of these two instruments have been serious enough to begin today to think of a reorganization of the credit system that establishes the separation between commercial banks and business banks, that is, between banks that collect and distribute credit to companies and households and banks that operate in financial markets with high risk speculative activities, a separation between "good" and "bad" to understand us. This is an unthinkable measure for some of you, but I would ask these colleagues to reflect on the fact that if the principle of separation had been introduced before, all the dramatic consequences that our citizens have had and paid for could have been contained. I am referring, first of all, to the continued recapitalisation of credit institutions, which have triggered a serious lack of liquidity for companies; secondly, to the sovereign debt crisis and the consequent austerity policies that have increased direct and indirect tax pressure, causing the indiscriminate rise in prices, including basic products, with a significant loss of purchasing power by households. As for derivatives, which have created many problems, it is okay to tell our local administrations not to do them anymore, because they are not good, but the state must do the same, because the central state cannot demand that local administrations do not do it if the state first does not set a good example. You can expect something from others only if you do it first. So let us welcome all the European directives on banking harmonisation, but let them be targeted and effective, and as far as this cumbersome European machine leaves us room, let us take action, to take back what little autonomy we still have and exploit it in favour of those who cannot pay and those who are tired of paying an account whose bill was not in his name. Some time ago reading a newspaper, I found these words written: Crisi and economy are not today used as concepts, but as passwords, which serve to impose and to make people accept measures and restrictions that people have no reason to accept. Crisis means today only "you have to obey!"" (to the European Union). These are the same words as the philosopher I mentioned earlier. Enough of the overpower of the banks, who with their gray officials present themselves as the new sanctuaries of a new, indeed old - because to say it is almost banal - religion. It is not trivial, however, at least in my opinion, to read in the newspaper a title such as: "Save the euro at any cost" and think like that "any cost" is so little indicative of concrete but evocative measures of all the sacrifices and sacrifices that our citizens have already taken and are continuing to serve. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u62	We greet the students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Education (Enrico Fermi) in Lucca, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u63	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u64	Mr President, I had prepared a speech which, however, after listening to Senator Cattaneo in debate, I have changed a little, updating him, and then I will speak with my arms. I would like to remind the whole House - and therefore also Senator Cattaneo - of a fundamental principle that is well laid down in Article 10 of the Treaty on European Union, namely the provision requiring Member States to take all measures of a general and particular nature to ensure that the obligations arising from the negotiations or resulting from the acts of the institutions of the Union are fulfilled. The principle that is enshrined in this short but intense regulatory period is that of loyal cooperation, i.e. the obligation for each Member State, including Italy, to work by every means to facilitate the affirmation of the values that the European Union is carrying out. These values include democracy, equality, respect for human rights, human dignity and also freedom. Freedom: this is very important. First of all, we protect freedom and, in particular, freedom of research, for all researchers, those who are more or less blasoned, those who are more or less helped, but, when reference is made to the sacred right, even of private or public companies, to do research, of course, the right of the child must also be safeguarded. Let me give you an example. If we liberalise the search for GMOs in the open field, I have nothing against it; but at that point all measures must be taken to ensure, for example, that the farmer is protected three or four kilometres away. In the toxicology studies carried out, from measurements of the levels of insecticides on organic or non-organic strawberries, it has in fact been seen that, since the air turns, the levels are often the same in the end. We know, for example, that bees make at least three kilometers and go from flower to flower to take pollen: this is the first spread and contamination difficult to control. In the hearing, the Forest Corps of the State specified, bringing the acts of a work carried out by the Public Prosecutor of the Republic for Friuli-Venezia Giulia on the case Fidenato, that in the fields near some areas where GMOs had been treated there were contaminations that, depending on whether these plants were underwind or not, had a concentration of such organisms from 0.5 to 10 percent. Let us therefore welcome research, but let us safeguard the freedom of all, because it is a principle underlying our Europe. Perhaps it would also be appropriate not only to recognize research aimed at market investigation and, therefore, profit, but also to rediscover our traditional typicality and our rural culture. Many attacks, for example on maize or other plants, can certainly be resolved not with the use of herbicides or insecticides, but with what was the famous agricultural rotation that our farmers well knew. There are many approaches to protecting typical products. I can't compare a reality as diverse and restricted as that of the Italian territory, so rich in typicality and divided into spaces so small, with other realities where you can make more extensive crops, having much larger spaces available. Freedom for all, therefore; but for all it means precisely for all, from the great to the small. Again with reference to how the European directive was transposed, this morning Mrs Donno reminded us that we are always lagging behind Europe because we have at least 92 sanctioning measures against our country for delay in transposition, of which 19 for failure to transpose directives also in fundamental areas such as the environment and health. This time we had the opportunity to do well and what happened in the Commission? I want to stigmatize this because I find it shameful. Basically, we have repealed Article 10 (it has been said that we will deal with it in six months' time, so not now), which was of an orderly nature, so with invariance of expenditure (and the Government, to be honest, had also said so), but the Budget Committee has expressed itself and, for fear that there might be something, has asked for a technical report that the Government has not been able to produce. Therefore, we expose ourselves to making the usual fool out of ourselves. Instead it was important that that article be discussed, that the technical report evaluated and therefore that there were no repeal and postponement, because from 4 April 2014 at the Ministry of Economic Development an interinstitutional examination table is established, organized in technical groups, which, through the analysis and the detailed and thoughtful discussion of the complex subject of radiation protection and the comparison with experts in the field, works on possible contents of the legislative decree of transposition. We are therefore in one of those rare cases where our country would have been able to transpose a directive promptly and knowingly. It seemed that we were moving in this direction, so I stigmatize this institutional ballage of responsibility, which I find very serious. We're getting worse and worse. I would remind you that Article 10 refers to the protection of the population from ionizing radiation; there are regulations governing the presence of radon in homes, so these are health issues, which are of concern to all citizens and in particular to workers.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u65	Senator, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u66	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to conclude by reminding you that we were once much better. When the famous four Euratom directives, including No 29 of 1996, forced us to adopt the current text on the monitoring of ionizing radiation (i.e. Legislative Decree No 230 of 1995, as amended by Legislative Decree No 241 of 2000 and supplemented by Legislative Decree No 187 of 2000), we were already in place. Europe gave us directives and we had already transposed them, because the decree of the President of the Republic No 185 of 1964 had already been issued on the safety of installations and health protection of workers and the population against the dangers of ionizing radiation resulting from the peaceful use of nuclear energy, so we were a beautiful figure because we had already done everything. We could do that now, but we care about making a bad impression. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask you once again to conclude. FUCKSIA (M5S). I'll finish with a final joke. It's like we're saying that we're slowing down now and then running and doing things wrong and hastily, since by 2018 there will have to be transposition. We know very well that the proverb says that the hasty cat makes blind children and even this time, even if we can do well, we will hurt, because we will quickly transpose everything and meanwhile the components of an open technical table, on which money and time are invested, are there to turn their thumbs because of us, a government that is in a hurry... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u67	He's enlisted to speak Senator Piccoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are dealing with is extremely important because it creates the conditions for implementing in national territory a number of Union provisions regulating the most diverse sectors of the economy and society. From this point of view, I would first of all like to draw attention to a great deal of criticality. The process through which Community provisions enter our regulatory framework requires urgent activation of simplification and rationalisation. I declare this because often there is a transposition of EU rules, often delayed and almost always pedissequo, and in any case without those simplification grafts specifically required by Law No 234 of 2012 (Article 32) and always rightly expected by citizens and businesses. In Italy, the transposition of each new directive leads, generally and almost automatically, to an increase in regulatory complexity for operators in the sector concerned, almost as if it is more important to honour commitments to Europe than to improve the conditions of people, families and businesses. There is complete certainty about this as soon as we are confronted with other countries of the European Union (France, Germany, Spain), with the disconcerting conclusion that others are able to simplify in the same area in which we complicate ourselves, sometimes even severely and with inevitable negative consequences on the competitiveness of the country and on the social order. Not to mention how careful we are to ensure that the principle of subsidiarity is respected in the Union-Member State report and we forget to make systematic the application of the same constitutional principle in the State-Citizen, State-Family, State-Company relations. It is indeed essential, as these times say, to change step by step, so that the search for the most suitable solutions for development is not conditioned by the concern of a hypothetical opening of an infringement procedure, but by the need to give specific and effective responses to citizens and businesses, obviously within a reasonable set of common rules, and by targeted interventions, from the stage of formation of directives. In the Commission, Forza Italia has actively participated, with its own proposals for amendments, in particular with regard to changes in the scope of regulation of financial instruments, deposit guarantee schemes and the supervision of credit institutions. We have also contributed to the overcoming of a further critical issue, which seemed to us to be such. In fact, in order to facilitate the changes in production required by the European Union for tobacco companies, we have called, in line with the opinions of the Agriculture and Industry Commissions, for the rapid transposition of the Tobacco Products Directive 2014/40/EU in order to provide businesses with a clear and defined legal framework. At the same time, we have proposed that in the implementation a suitable time frame should be provided for adapting production facilities to the provisions of the new directive. However, there are still significant problems and I come here to recall only a few of them. In the field of environmental impact assessment, in relation to Directive 2014/52/EU, our proposal was to develop standard, understandable and concise documentation in support of procedures, which represents a road to a real bureaucratic simplification of the sector. If we fail to write simple norms and reduce the complexity and the times to carry out the bureaucratic obligations, the same project of infrastructural modernization that our country needs will become a simple chimera and the engagement in adequate times of the same European provisions, both in terms of Programming 2014-2020, and in relation to the opportunities connected to the Juncker plan, will be impossible to realize. With the same aim of simplification we had proposed amendments aimed at providing time-limits for individual environmental impact assessment procedures in relation to the different types of action. At the same time, we have highlighted a further critical issue, connected with the need not to subject the ongoing procedures to the transposition of new environmental directives. We have only been allowed to turn these amendments into agendas. That is why it is only a wish and not a rule. We will keep track of developments in this area. Another point on which we have spoken is the following. For the sake of greater public protection, we have proposed that, in detecting the level of radioactivity in water, telematic systems and new technologies be used by the water service provider, with the possibility of temporarily suspending the service in cases of excessive levels of radioactivity; I do not think I can use this term to take the opportunity of technological modernisation in favour of water service users. With regard to the deletion of the article on the transposition of Directive 2013/59/Euratom, which lays down basic safety standards for the protection against the dangers arising from exposure to ionizing radiation, let us be clear that we are not convinced of the reasons put forward by the majority to justify this decision. If these are basic safety standards for working environments and public buildings, such as schools, we need to act quickly and decisively. We will be vigilant to check that the Government's statements, which announced rapid and specific measures in this regard, have operational and tangible consequences in the near future, without delay in the formulation of the implementing legislation. Finally, in the method, we have called for greater clarity and transparency in the transposition of EU legislation into our legal system. For example, with an agenda, which has been accepted, we have committed the Government to explain in the DEF what Italy has to pay every year for convictions for non-implementation or infringement of Community provisions. For the same purpose of simplification and clarity, the DEF should also include the communication and the reasons why the Government has not adopted criminal or administrative sanctions for breaches of Community obligations within the prescribed time limits and on the basis of the delegation of Article 2. I hope that the points on the agenda will be implemented in practice, but we will still be looking at them step by step. In conclusion, even in the transposition of Community provisions, it seems to skate on thin ice, under conditions of extreme precariousness. On the other hand, we must find ways of adapting Community legislation to the different territorial and local contexts, otherwise we will continue to impose on the heads of our citizens and businesses only an infinite series of obligations and complications - wanted by Europe, it is said - that will bring nothing but further penalties for our territories, in particular those so-called marginal ones, for which it is necessary to progressively remove situations of competitive disadvantage. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u69	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u70	Mr President, in relation to some of the comments that have emerged in general debate, it seems to me first of all appropriate to point out that, with the draft law of the European delegation 2014, Parliament gives the Government legislative delegation for the transposition of directives and other acts of the European Union, which ensure the periodic adaptation of national law to European law, pursuant to Law No 234 of 2012, repealing Community law No 11 of 2005 and contains: General rules on the participation of Italy in the training and implementation of European Union legislation and policies This law has helped to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the process of forming Community laws, starting with the Parliament's task of assessing compliance with the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality at an upward stage on the proposals for regulations, and has strengthened the value of the debate and political dialogue between the European Parliament, the Commission, national parliaments and regional assemblies in the formation of strategic guidelines for common policies. In this 17th legislature, not only have we passed two European laws referring to previous years (2011 and 2012), but we have closed twenty EU infringements, recovering authority and protagonism within an ever closer Union among the 28 member countries. Today, more than 70% of national legislation comes from European legislation; therefore, our ability to intervene effectively in the decision-making process, even with a closer link with our representatives in Strasbourg and in agreement with the regions, which will then be called upon to implement concretely in certain areas of competence. The delegation bill, in addition to a list of the directives to be implemented, contains principles and guiding criteria for the exercise of the delegation of the transposition of Regulation of the European Union No 1024 of 2013, which assigns specific tasks to the European Central Bank with regard to the prudential supervision policies of credit institutions. But a further important delegation concerns JHA framework decisions, i.e. on justice and home affairs. In particular, Article 17 delegates the implementation of a significant number of European Framework Decisions on Justice Cooperation, issued from 2002 to 2008. Of significant interest is Decision No 465 of 2002, which contains provisions for the establishment of joint investigation teams to combat international crime and the fight against terrorism, an instrument which would strengthen cooperation between Member States for the emergence and repression of the phenomenon of international terrorism and of criminal organisations, but also of small and individual cells of fighters, through joint investigation activities, with the exchange of information to unveil networks of relationship, enlistment, training and proselytism within the single European area of both European citizens and foreigners present in the territory. This intervention would therefore strengthen the new legal framework recently outlined with the conversion of the anti-terrorism decree No 7 of 2015. Furthermore, Decision JHA No 577 of 2003 aims to implement the principle of mutual recognition of confiscation and seizure orders issued by judicial authorities, to be carried out in the territory of another Member State, while Decision No 214 of 2005 lays down rules on the mutual recognition of financial penalties imposed by a final decision. The most recent Decision No 947 of 2008 concerns the mutual recognition of judgments implementing the conditional suspension of the sentence and alternative sanctions, while Decision No 299 of 2009 aims to strengthen the procedural rights of persons and the mutual recognition of judgments handed down even in the absence of the person concerned at the trial. Finally, Decision No 948 of 2009 on the resolution of conflicts relating to the exercise of jurisdiction in criminal proceedings in which the same person in relation to the same facts is charged in parallel criminal proceedings in several Member States aims to prevent the violation of the principle of ne bis in idem international. President, as you know, the transposition of these decisions in the field of justice is all the more urgent in relation to the transition of judicial cooperation from intergovernmental matters, from the third pillar of the Maastricht Treaty, to Community competence since December 2014, as the transition period of five years has elapsed. With the Lisbon Treaty, in fact, the area of freedom, security and justice also becomes unique and this requires the acceleration of the process of harmonisation and implementation of European obligations, also in order to avoid infringement procedures by the Commission or sanctions by the Court of Justice, but above all offers new instruments in the field of cooperation for security, inside and outside the European borders, in the scenario of a more complex and difficult international geopolitical tension; issues on which we have increasingly found ourselves reflecting in this House. This process becomes even more significant, requiring us to take measures to make our justice system even more efficient, to increase the mutual trust of the Member States and to make justice an instrument for development, competitiveness and growth, a key factor for external investors and a factor for social consolidation and for the sure protection of rights, as also indicated in the European Recommendation for Italy in the framework of the European Semester of Surveillance, and as enshrined in the National Reform Programme contained in the DEF, which provides ample scope for the reform of justice. The national court, in applying the Community right of derivation, is a European judge: for this reason, as highlighted in the 2015 EU Justice Scoreboard, it is the interest of the Member States that each country tends to improve the efficiency, independence and certainty of its internal judicial systems. Europe is still struggling to conceive itself as the only legal entity, both inside and outside, in its relations with third countries, but the emergence of the threat of international terrorism and organised crime up to that of human tragedies linked to immigration requires us to assume responsibility, for a greater European protagonism, also within those intergovernmental international organisations where we are not yet able, as Europeans, to speak with one voice. There cannot be a free Europe within the internal area and it can guarantee rights, without it being even safer. In this direction it is necessary to speed up the process of "communitisation" of justice and home affairs matters, while respecting the legal traditions of the individual Member States, starting with the implementation of the above-mentioned framework decisions and continuing with determination the path we have taken, which has seen us support the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor, including by strengthening the competences of agencies such as Europol and Eurojust, for an internal area where European citizens can rely on the same levels of efficiency and quality of justice and can enjoy the same guarantees in the different territories of residence, in a single area of freedom, security and justice. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u71	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u72	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u75	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked to speak (and I am going to say that every day, at the end of the sitting, I will ask for it, as long as this parliamentary term lasts or until I am allowed to do so) in order to complain, denounce or swear - I do not know what verbs to use - that this Government does not respond to questions and questions. [[Applause from Senators Bencini, Candiani, Fattori and Mussini]] It's a shame! We are at a level of response of about 10%, i.e. we respond to an act of inspection union every ten. I've come to the point of presenting an interrogation, to ask why you don't answer the interrogations (but obviously nobody gives a damn!). Mr President, I would like to give the offices a sheet indicating all the questions and questions to which I have not received an answer. I think I can represent all those who have not received an answer. I have said this and I will repeat it all the time: we will see how the government is doing about it. President Renzi probably won't give a damn about it, and this input is likely to have been passed on to all the representatives of his Government, to the Deputy Ministers, to the Subsecretaries and to all those who have been questioned or questioned about national or local issues. These are problems that concern everyone, but the sufficiency with which it is thought to address this aspect shows that the willingness to respond is not part of the good customs of this Government. I would just like to mention percentage figures: the Berlusconi Government responded to about 40% of the questions and questions, while the Renzi Government responds to about 11% of them. I don't know whether to think I'm lucky or not, because tomorrow will be answered to a question signed by me and Senator Bertacco. The most ridiculous thing, in some respects, is that to this question, concerning the Transpolesana state road, which leads from Verona to the Po Delta, sent to the then minister of infrastructure and transport Lupi (which has now been replaced), comes to answer the undersecretary Castiglione, who - for those who did not know it - is Undersecretary for agricultural food and forestry policies. I would like to understand what agriculture has to do with the problem of this road. We're really at ridiculous levels, and I also think it's offensive. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u78	ZIN (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, in a nutshell, I would like to express the perplexity and discomfort that I have experienced in the words of Mr Grillo regarding Professor Veronesi on the subject of cancer prevention, in particular on mammography. In my opinion, he was wrong about both the approach of the subject and the attack on an internationally renowned researcher like Professor Veronesi. Every year, more than 500,000 women in the world die of breast cancer. Most women with breast cancer have a diagnosis at an advanced stage, with a five-year survival rate of between 10 and 40 percent. Instead, with early diagnosis and subsequent treatments, survival at five years is over 80 percent. Several clinical studies have confirmed that screening for women aged 40 and over reduces mortality between 30 and 50 percent (this is reported by the Position paper on mammography screening 2014, of the World Health Organization). So it is fundamental, I would say vital, the basic elementary screening by mammography, thanks to which, diagnosed the tumor in time, the patient can treat himself as it emerges in another WHO paper statement (studio without any risk, reasonably used in time and form). Out of respect for every woman and her health, this Parliament cannot allow Umberto Veronesi to be denounced in the fervour of political propaganda, and what an authoritative means in the prevention and treatment of cancers at international level and in the scientific community as a whole. The words: "Veronesi always goes on TV to say that we have to make mammograms because they probably give more subsidies to his institute" are pure disinformation, aimed only at offending, with unreasonable and irresponsible arguments, one of the most important representatives of Italian medicine and always great supporter and promoter of prevention as lifesaving. The positions taken, to the detriment of prevention, would deny what has already been recognized by oncologists. To contradict the results achieved is to stand out from any scientific debate, serious and rigorously argued. With cancer, Mr President, political demagogy cannot be used. There is no wrong message to people, especially when it comes to health. This Parliament has the task of giving a strong message to women: do not avoid mammography and do the preventive investigations that doctors recommend, without listening to opinions that are empty of content. I repeat: we cannot allow the so-called anti-policy to involve even the most qualified researchers. If only a woman in Italy does not do mammography when her doctor recommends it for some doubt arising from sudden and unhappy statements will be responsible for a life at risk of breast cancer. Finally, it is worth remembering once again, although it will be obvious to many, that mammography does not cure, but in many cases it undoubtedly avoids death. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAI and Senators Campanella, De Pin and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u81	Mr Pezzopane (PD). Mr President, on Sunday morning the city of L'Aquila will be flooded with black feathers. It is the day chosen for the great national meeting of the Alps. Already in these hours the city, the municipalities around the capital of the Region and Abruzzo are positively organizing to welcome this great meeting. More than 200,000 people are expected. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u82	Excuse me, Senator, if anyone wants to discuss anything else, they can come out and avoid disturbing Senator Pezzopane's intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u83	AIROLA (M5S). Go to the state's attorney's office and make an exhibit against the 5 Stars, so we can figure it out. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, we're at the end of the session, Senator Airola, that seems excessive. AIROLA (M5S). A little word always suits us, President, so we are in democracy: Turn us in. Mr Pezzopane (PD). The Government will be present, the highest leaders of the Armed Forces will be present and, above all, many people will be present. I want to publicly and here, in the seat of the Senate, thank the National Alpine Association that bravely chose to make the eighty-eighth meeting in a city still wounded, which brings the scar and martyrdom of the earthquake of six years ago. However, it will be even more important for us than it may have been in the other cities where this meeting took place in the past years. It will be even more important because the Alpines, at the early hours of the dawn of April 6, 2009, were our first rescuers, they were the first men to welcome us, to help us and, in many cases, to save our lives. That is why I felt it appropriate, involving the Senate Presidency and the senators present, to remember all this and to thank the National Alpine Association and, above all, to appeal to Parliament's colleagues to accompany the Alps in the city of L'Aquila, which will thank everyone, with gratitude, also for what has been done after 6 April 2009 and which will have to continue to be done. [[Applause from Senator Zavoli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u86	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for the rapid timing of the motion of no confidence 1-00403 against the Minister for Education, University and Research, Stefania Giannini. There are political responsibilities of the Minister in the case of the competition-con for medical specialization grants, held last October: they are now before everyone's eyes. After more than a year to prepare this competition, there were the lightness of entrusting the Cineca contest with the preparation of questions and superficiality in making promises immediately after the reverse of the applications, to cancel and repeat the contest, and then to deny and declare the regularity of the ranking. In France it was canceled twice for spelling errors and for having administered at a distance of a few minutes from one site to another the competitive test. Even more serious were the pressures put on the TAR Lazio to prevent it from accepting appeals from thousands of doctors because they might be affected by the state's coffers. Above all, the non-application of the Council of State's consultative pronunciation, in which the MIUR is obliged to hire in supernumber about 300 doctors who have seen to accept its appeal: the decision, legally correct, but ethically inappropriate, of the Dicastery of Viale Trastevere, to avail itself of this institute of transposition. These bitter stages marked the shameful path and for these reasons tomorrow, from 10 a.m. to 1.30 p.m., despite the registration of the first winners of the appeals before the TAR, will be held in front of the MIUR a national demonstration of the Coordination medical world. I will, together with a delegation from the M5S, beside these young doctors, who are increasingly being abused in this country by this Government, to come back to ask forcefully for the restoration of the right to training and work and to force the Minister to give clear answers. Doctors, like the other young intelligences in this country, must no longer emigrate abroad to see recognized the rights of their sacrifices and competences. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u89	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, I agree with Mr Giannini's motion of no confidence, because I too am talking about school. While the government is deciding what a good school is, a service of the program "Le Iene" aired on May 7, 2015 highlighted a situation, at the kindergarten "Marchesi" in Genzano (where I live, among other things), in which not only good school is guaranteed, but not even adequate assistance to the physiological needs of attending children. During the afternoon shift, from 14 to 16, about 40 children enrolled (small children, from 3 to 6 years), can avail of the presence only of a school worker to support the educators; this means the impossibility of taking the children to the bathroom. The children in this school are forced, at an age of 3 to 6 years (so at an age when they are able to go to the bathroom alone), to get their own needs on them. And children who do their needs are isolated from others, humiliated and held still; they call their parents and ask if they can come and change the child. The teacher obviously cannot take them to the bathroom and a single educator cannot take care of these children and take them all to the bathroom. So parents, who may work or have other commitments, are forced to go to school to change children; it is a third world situation, not a civilized country. Before talking about good school, stratospheric boards, garrisons that become fathers-masters, maybe we provide basic toilets and basic care to our children, so that they are not humiliated to stay with the poop and pee all day long, because Minister Giannini has to think about Renzi's good school. I have tabled a question and I really strongly ask that, at least for these basic issues, the Minister should come once to answer us and tell us what, according to this Government, good school is. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u92	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank you on behalf of the 400,000 citizens of Val Pescara for a bomb. Last December, with a six-line device, the Court of Assizes of Chieti acquitted all 19 defendants of the Montedison poison dump trial in Bussi. The environmental disaster was robbed of manslaughter, which in turn ended up in thin air for prescription. It was a sentence that amazed and embarrassed the Abruzzo people: how is it possible that the contamination of the waters is there, but the fault is not of anyone? Maybe the answers are coming. To the poisoning of the environment and health would have been added also the institutional and legal one. From what we learn from an inquiry of "The Daily Fact" today, the popular judges involved in the trial would not only never have read the proceedings, but would have even been threatened to end up ruined by Montedison if they had not decided to exclude the dole and to decide in favor of the manslaughter disaster. The 5 Star Movement will present a question on the new elements emerged from the journalistic inquiry of the "Il Fatto Quotidiano," joining the requests of Augusto De Santis, of the Abruzzo Forum movements for the water, and of the mayor of Bussi Salvatore La Gatta: immediately an inspection and immediately reopen the process. It has already been said that it would be very serious and unheard of if the popular judges had been put in a position not to serenity in their judgment, but, if the facts were confirmed, nothing but a condition of non-serenity! Here we would find ourselves faced with mafia-like threats, exercised by strong powers that refuse to be tried. I hope this doesn't end here. The people of Abruzzo deserve to know the truth: if the trial against Montedison has really been polluted by criminal methods, the perpetrators will have to pay for it this time and pay for it very dearly. Thank you for your time, Mr President. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u95	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, three months after the presentation of my questioning 2-00249 and six months after the opaque affair of children transferred to Congo, it does not appear that any evidence and clarification has come from the government. I think it is worth pointing out that difficulties and opacity are not limited to the Congo, but are affecting Burundi, Belarus and other realities, in the total silence of the institutions. Meanwhile, the sector of international adoptions is suffering a terrible collapse, for reasons that grab not so much from the fantastic economic crisis, but more simply to a cumbersome organization and bureaucracy "manager" - let me say so - relative to the modus operandi of the CAI. In fact, in view of the growing number of families they would like to adopt, the procedures concluded appear to be in sharp decline. At this point, I ask the Government to give feedback to my questioning, also because of the elements of extreme delicacy traced, and at the same time I ask that it resumes that speech on the start of the reform of international adoptions left indefinite last year by Minister Boschi after the resolution of the story of the 31 Congolese children returned to Italy. It would be desirable for the Government to take a clear and rapid stance on this matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-448.ana.u96	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13 p.m.
