ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 5.30 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 17 November.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u4	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the time limit of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (at 17.06).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u10	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I would like to remind you of someone who has died. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u11	Colleagues, lower your voice, because I can't hear Senator Orellana.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u12	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I would like to point out to the House the death of one of our fellow citizens during the tragic events of 13 November at the Bataclan Theatre in Paris. Unfortunately, not only did Valeria Solesin, of whom the State funerals have been celebrated today, have died, but also one of our fellow citizens with double passport, Italian and Venezuelan, of which the media have not reported in Italy. I think that 28-year-old boy, who lived and worked in Spain, deserves a memory and I mention his name: Sven Alejandro Silva Perugini, who died in the tragic event of the Bataclan Theatre.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u13	We associate ourselves with the mourning for the death of our fellow citizen, Senator Orellana, and for the other victims that this House has already honoured last week. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u14	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2124, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Tonini, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur. [[Brusio.]] I would ask colleagues to lower their voices because it is absolutely impossible for those who have to speak. Colleagues, if you have to chat about what happened last week, please do it in the hallways.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a decree-law with urgent provisions on economic and social matters, issued on 1 October last and for which we have, therefore, very little time. To avoid unnecessary controversy, it is right to recall that the House of Deputies transmitted the measure to us on 4 November last. And, therefore, this time the shortage of time is not the responsibility of imperfect coordination between the two branches of Parliament, having held it a month for evaluation and, therefore, due time. Simply, the examination of the decree-law in the Senate ended with the engulfing with the reading of the laws of stability and budget and, therefore, it is really little time to dedicate to it. The decree-law consists of four articles, three of which are already part of the original text issued by the Government and one introduced by the Chamber of Deputies. Article 1 is aimed at financing the extraordinary plan for the restoration of the decorum and functionality of school buildings, the so-called beautiful school program. Overall, this article is active EUR 110 million, of which EUR 100 million for 2015 and EUR 10 million for 2016. The financing of the actions of the plan is guaranteed by the article under consideration having the immediate use of resources equal to 50 million euros for 2015 and 10 million euros for 2016, already allocated by the CIPE from the Fund for Development and Cohesion - 2014-2020 programming, for the continuation of the interventions related to the extraordinary plan for the restoration of the decorum and functionality of the school buildings. Funding is also guaranteed by a new legislative organisation of expenditure of EUR 50 million for 2015, the financial costs of which are covered by a corresponding reduction in the resources of the Social Fund for Employment and Training. As reported in the explanatory report, the article under consideration therefore aims to guarantee the immediate availability of 110 million euros necessary for the continuation of the programme "Scuole belle" which - it is recalled - provides for a total financing of 450 million euros, of which 280 already allocated for the period from 1 July 2014 to 1 April 2016. Article 1-a, inserted in the Chamber of Deputies, amends the scope of the transitional legislation on socially useful work, in order to allow public administrations to continue to carry out their public service activities. The report referred to in this Article 1-a shall extend the transitional period, including all projects which have had or start before the date of adoption of the Framework Convention by the National Agency for Active Labour Policies. According to the new framework, activities for public utility purposes by employing holders of social shock absorbers and unemployed persons are defined by agreements concluded by the Regions or Autonomous Provinces with public administrations operating on the territory on the basis of the Framework Convention. Article 2 contains urgent measures in favour of large enterprises in extraordinary administration, which are the subject of forecasts of the programme for the disposal of business complexes. On the one hand, paragraph 1 allows the extension of the period for implementing this programme; on the other hand, paragraphs 1-a and 1-b govern the implementation of the new programme in the event of ineffectiveness of the sale. The last subparagraph defines the date of verification of the uniqueness of the legal entity holding the unit of production and the unit of consumption. Finally, Article 3 contains financial measures for interventions in the territories affected by the exceptional weather events of 13 and 14 September 2015 (in particular those affecting the territories of the Provinces of Parma and Piacenza). Paragraph 1 provides, in particular, for the reduction of the objectives of the Internal Stability Pact in favour of the local authorities concerned, for a total amount of 14,179 million euros, broken down as follows: 4 million euros for the Province of Parma, 6,5 million euros for the Province of Piacenza and 3,679 million euros to be shared among the Municipalities belonging to the recalled Provinces affected by the event, as indicated in the table annexed to the decree-law under consideration. The passing technical report does not highlight any problems of burden-covering, including, of course, the new provisions introduced by the House of Deputies. Therefore, the budget Commission had nothing to complain about financially.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u16	We welcome the students of the Institute of State Higher Education "Algeri Marino" in Casoli, in the province of Chieti, who are today visiting the Senate. Welcome to follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u17	I declare that a question has been referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Stefani to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so. [[Brusio.]] I ask my colleagues, especially from the benches to my right, to lower the tone of voice so as not to make it really difficult to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u18	Madam President, we have proposed this question of constitutionality because, for the umpteenth time, we have found in one of the measures, which are constantly proposed in the form of the decree-law, the total lack of the requirements for their adoption. We believe that, in this case too, there are doubts as to the compatibility of the measure under consideration with constitutional legislation. The title which has already been chosen, which seems to be instrumentally broad and generic, is probably intended to cover all the subjects covered by the measure. Other than evenness of matter! Article 1 deals, in fact, with the regulations on the decoration of schools. On the other hand, Article 2 contains measures to ensure the execution of special management programmes for companies in crisis. We then come to Article 3, which talks about exceptional weather events. It is absolutely clear that the matter dealt with is uneven. Entering into detail, it cannot be ignored that, at a first reading of Article 1, it seems almost to have to applaud the Government, as we talk about the continuation of the interventions related to the extraordinary plan for the restoration of the decorum and functionality of the schools, with which we suggest who knows what legislation and who knows what benefits for the school building. In the end, however, in reading the regulatory references, it turns out that we are simply talking about the re-use of former janitors of companies that have lost the management of school cleaning. It is true that perhaps decorum and beautiful schools may also pass through cleanliness, but perhaps a different kind of regulatory intervention was expected. It is also permissible to question the urgency requirements of the measure. The urgency is probably due to the fact that the resources were only authorised until June 2015. This is a relative urgency, as there should already have been an intervention in July. If we go then to see the allocations of the funds, which show a total substance of almost 130 million euros, we note a unevenness, which this time is not normative, in the distribution of resources between the regions, which are weighed differently, also with respect to the size and population. The majority of the funds are allocated to Campania, with a sum equal to 50 million euros; for Puglia 20 million euros are allocated; for Calabria 12.5 million euros; for Sicily 11.5 million euros; for Lazio 11.2 million euros, while other Regions, like Emilia-Romagna, have not had even 2 million euros. With regard to Article 2, however, it becomes necessary to point out that the matter of the extraordinary administration of companies in insolvency is being dealt with, when not even a long time ago this same Assembly adopted a measure concerning the revision of the rules of bankruptcy law. We cannot see why we could not then have included this measure in that legislation, or even in the measures under consideration by the competent Commissions, which also concern the reform of the process. With regard to Article 3, as a Venetian, which are - and I think all Venetians are with me - I cannot fail to point out that the interventions we are talking about concern exclusively the exceptional weather events of 13 and 14 September 2015 in Parma and Piacenza. I remember that in July this year a catastrophic weather event hit Veneto, bringing millions of euros of damage, for which you can not have any refreshment. Nor have the amendments proposed by us in the North League been taken into account so that people, families, and not just businesses, could have a contribution to make to overcoming and fixing the damage suffered. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Instead, it will be up to you to do as it has already done. There is a forecast, as regards the unblocking of the Stability Pact, to extend the availability of financial spaces precisely to cope with calamitous events, but let us remember that these are responses that concern local authorities. Gentlemen, when it comes to soft financing, as laid down in the stability bill, it means that, in any case, a debt must be made, the capital must be paid. We are talking about people who are actually facing a cost of tens of thousands of euros to fix the roofs of their homes, and to whom, in the end, this State will recognize nothing at all. Therefore, for the reasons which we have expressed here, and which we have better represented in the question referred for a preliminary ruling, we ask that the draft law should not be examined. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u19	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a representative per group may intervene on the question referred for a preliminary ruling for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u22	FALANGA (AL-A). Madam President, if the Government had tabled three separate decree-laws, I believe that we would have had no doubt that we would have voted in favour of each of them. What do I mean by that? Article 1, which provides for the rehabilitation of school staff who have had difficulties as a result of the different organization of school cleaning, can be well shared. Article 2, to be honest, leaves me a little puzzled, because something is expected that seems to be already foreseen in another law provision, and that is the so-called Prodi ex-law procedure: when the program is not implemented in the field of extraordinary administration, within the deadline set by the law of two years - albeit extendable for three months, plus three more - there is the automatic conversion of the extraordinary procedure, former Prodi law, in bankruptcy. Therefore, it seems to me that the prediction contained in this decree-law is already provided for by the primary rule. The third intervention, as provided for in Article 3, is also acceptable because it does in any case intervene on those areas which have been the subject of disasters caused by weather conditions. Therefore, all three points are acceptable, with the second of dubious application because - as I have already said - regulated in another law; however, the unevenness, that is the fact that the three articles do not have substantially identical characters, lets us assume a problem of dubious constitutionality. I personally would vote in favour of the question referred by the North League. However, if the question for a preliminary ruling is removed, there can only be a sharing by the Group on behalf of which I am speaking.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u23	We shall now proceed to the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1. Verification of Calderoli quorum (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of discussion of draft law No 2124 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Senator Stefani and other senators. It's not approved. MARTELLI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Appreciate the circumstances, the Presidency does not consider the counterproof necessary.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u26	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business. Before we started the general discussion, we wondered whether the majority and minority leaders also agreed on the need to request urgent information from the Ministry of Defence on what has happened today. A Russian plane does military operations against ISIS, operations on which we all agree. We are, in fact, voting on the refinancing of international missions, devoting an important proportion of resources to the fight against this new evil to be eradicated. A Russian plane, probably on the Syrian-Turkish border, is shot down by a state that is part of NATO (of which our country is also part) and that prevents aircraft from conducting operations that we share. It's total chaos. We can understand what kind of reactions the Russians might have, causing total instability in an air already in the water. We would therefore like to know whether the other group leaders also agree that the Minister of Defence should be given immediate access to the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u27	Divine Senator, tomorrow the Conference of the Leaders is already convened, which I believe is a suitable place to carry out this verification. The Presidency will also make contacts with the Minister of Defence to check whether he is prepared to report back to the House by the end of the week, at a time when all the necessary elements can be acquired.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u30	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Madam President, I believe that we must understand the gravity of the moment. For the situation in Syria there are no weeks or days to intervene. What has happened is a fact of enormous gravity, Madam President, which, according to the 5 Star Movement, should immediately commit the Government to intervene internationally to cool the outbreak that can overwhelm everything and everyone. After seventy years, for the first time, a NATO plane took down a Russian plane. This is an unprecedented situation. We hope not only that the Government will come here in a few hours to report, but that it will act immediately in the international context. There's no time! There's no time! Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before the Russian reaction leads to an escalation, please try to understand the moment. The risk is that there will be a serious military escalation, involving all of us, between a NATO country and Russia. And, above all, we must have clear - the Movement asks it loudly - the separation of the responsibilities of our country from those of those who accuse themselves of trafficking with the ISIS, which must be put in the condition of not igniting a serious conflict as it appears instead happens in these hours. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u31	There is no underestimation of the seriousness of the matter. Now, with the Presidency, we will consider how to proceed in the sense urged by the groups of the League and the 5 Star Movement, which, I believe, is in fact unanimously shared.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u32	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u33	Madam President, we are not only contesting the fact that this measure is not at all homogeneous and therefore does not meet the requirements of urgency. We also, and above all, dispute some of the contents which appear to be totally inadequate in relation to the rapporteur's illustration in this House. Senator Tonini said that article 1 is dedicated to the beautiful school. I would ask the majority and, in particular, the President-in-Office of the Council to avoid the continuous definitions of good school and good school which have nothing to do with the reality of the facts. We have seen how the reform of the so-called good school has led to the widespread protest of students and teachers against a completely inadequate measure. And today we see the heading of this article that could make us hope for important interventions for the renovation of school buildings; instead, the only intervention inserted is related to the financing for the recruitment of personnel necessary to the cleaning for the decoration of schools. The decorum is fine, but what if the roofs collapse on the heads of the students and if the resources in the Provinces are increasingly reduced and it becomes practically impossible the ordinary maintenance of the school buildings? Well, this shows the total lack of intervention. Even more rage is the article 3, in which the only intervention that the Government is able to put in place to respond to the constant, annual, monthly and repeated daily emergencies of the hydrogeological failure that is hitting all our territory, from the North to the South, is to grant the affected municipalities the possibility, by way of derogation from the Stability Pact, to use some resource with the dropper. These are resources that are still available and heritage of the municipalities to do small maintenance operations. It's a shameful situation. It is a demonstration of the total inadequacy of this Government. 14 million for the municipalities involved by the last of the disasters - I am referring to the one at the end of September 2015 - and 7.5 million for the municipalities of Dolo, Mira and Pianiga, allocated with a previous intervention by the Government, always and only by way of derogation from the Stability Pact, after the tornado that hit Veneto on 8 July. This is the maximum of the capacity and attention given by the Government to the dramas that our fellow citizens are experiencing in the face of the disasters that have occurred. It is an absolute shame and the only answer you can give is that of soft loans to people and businesses who do not even have the money to support their family. Imagine if they can get a loan from the bank, albeit at low rates, to rebuild their home. That's what we're talking about. In some cases, our fellow citizens, particularly in Veneto after the tornado, have been deprived of their homes. And, having not received so far answers from the Renzi Government, next Saturday all the families gathered in association in the territories of Dolo, Pianiga and Mira, who have not found any refreshment regarding the damage suffered, will manifest to draw the attention of the Executive, who remains blind and deaf to the real needs of our citizens who are on their knees. We are not content with crumbs, loans and derogations from the Stability Pact. We believe, and therefore we ask, that when citizens are on the ground not for their own responsibility but for extraordinary events, a civil state must ensure that they return to normal in their homes, in decent living conditions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I remember that in 2010, when a devastating event struck without distinction all the Provinces of the Venetian territory (a flood that did damage and victims), the government of the time, so much criticized, allocated 300 million lost money to the Veneto Region. Those sums were used, in part, to restore the territory, to build works, basins, to give a concrete and lasting response to the effects of hydrogeological failure; and in other parts, they were destined to families that suffered damage. Moreover, by the Region a very punctual attention was paid to the use of resources, to the point so that those who thought they had used them improperly were also asked back. I therefore believe that there is an abysmal difference between the correct policies used in the past, which paid the right attention to citizens who had suffered very serious damage who had called into question the serenity of their lives and their families, and the attitude of the current Government, which allocates absolutely inadequate and symbolic resources and which, above all, do not solve the daily problems of those who have suffered very serious damage. In view of these considerations it is clear that the decree-law in question, so urgent, is very little. It is only a mockery of those who are still suffering from emergencies today, and so we send it back to the sender. And we hope that, during the examination of the law of stability in the House, someone from the benches of the majority will rise or have a different attitude towards the Government and demand respect for the citizens in difficulty, demanding adequate appropriations for those who have suffered damage. We also hope that finally this government will put itself in a corner that only thinks of the image and defines its interventions as good and beautiful, but for the citizens, they mean nothing in terms of results and rights that must be guaranteed to them. We do not recognize ourselves in this type of policy, nor in the attitude of the majority, which is absolutely inadequate and totally unwise in relation to the territories. Let's give an assessment for what it is. That in office is the Government of chatting, of words, and not of facts and we hope to remove the disturbance as soon as possible, because we really have the pockets full, and not just us. In fact, citizens also begin to understand that they are faced with a word that does not care about the real needs of our community. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senator Fattori]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u34	Senator Manassero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking in general debate on Decree-Law 154 of 2015 with some observations limited to the consequences for the workers affected by the rules we are going to vote on and which are specifically the former socially useful workers (LSU) or historical contracts, of which many of us have been interested in in the past months, especially during the discussion of the 2014 Stability Act, and the workers with income support instruments, interested in socially useful work projects. Article 1 of the measure aims to immediately make 110 million available - 170 million of them are needed - for that tranche of interventions on school building dedicated to the cleaning and decoration of buildings called "beautiful schools." It is a project born just after the attention urged by these workers who, for years, live in precarious working conditions in assignee cooperatives of the contracts of cleaning and maintenance, a historical assignment interrupted by the new discipline on purchases and contracts through CONSIP. On March 28, 2014, the Government signed an agreement that started the project "beautiful schools" and found a first solution to the employment problem of workers resulting from the reduction of contracts for the start of CONSIP procedures. The project was allocated €450 million for interventions until March 31, 2016, and to this end the workers were trained for the small and light maintenance part. The next agreement of July 25, 2015, which defined the appropriation of 170 million (of which 110 become expendable with this decree-law), also fixed the commitment of the Government to convene by the end of 2015 a review table of the project and the state of the workers involved. With Article 1-a, on the other hand, we intervene on another group of workers, and we enter here in the field of socially useful work, regulated by Legislative Decree No. 468 of 1 December 1997. This decree introduces and regulates the socially useful work and, in Article 4, identifies the parties concerned; in particular, points (c) and (d) include workers registered on the mobility lists and recipients of the mobility allowance or other special unemployment treatment and workers who enjoy the extraordinary treatment of wage integration, suspended at zero hours, to which Articles 7 and 8 of this decree are dedicated. Now, by virtue of Legislative Decree No 150 of 14 September 2015, one of the implementing decrees of the jobs act, workers with income support instruments in constancy of employment relationship can be called to work projects of public utility, regulated by Article 26 of the aforementioned decree. It happens, therefore, that workers who are in this situation come out of the legislation of Legislative Decree No. 468 of 1997 and enter into the new legislation of Legislative Decree No. 150 of 2015, with the only transitional condition, provided for by paragraph 12, which maintains the previous norm, i.e. Articles 7 and 8 of Legislative Decree No. 468 of 1997, only for those projects already in place at the entry into force of the decree. A vacuum is created, therefore, to which the article introduced to the House solves, which provides that the new projects of socially useful work that will be born from now on will be regulated on the basis of a framework convention defined by the ANPAL, the new National Agency for active labour policies, which I personally consider strategic, but established by the aforementioned legislative decree no. 150, which still has to see the light, and therefore the definition of the framework convention remains distant. The transitional rule therefore extends also to those projects which will arise until this text is approved. We therefore act positively with this decree-law and - I believe - in favour of workers. But, as there is no limit to the worst, so there must be in us the ambition to do the best, which in this case should be: for the workers of the "beautiful schools" the need to find as soon as possible the missing EUR 60 million, compared to the 170 of the July agreement, useful to arrive at the end of the programme. We stress that, for these resources, it would be necessary to identify an alternative cover compared to the reduction of the resources of the Social Fund for Employment and Training. Again on this point, it is necessary to maintain the commitment to convene the verification table provided for in the agreement at the end of the year, useful for the identification of a structured and stable solution for workers coming from socially useful employment contracts or historical contracts, today formed but in constant precarious for more than fifteen years. With regard to the socially useful work and the reasons for the need for the transitional rule, I come back - as our Group has already done with agendas in the Commission and in the Stability Act - on the need to start as soon as possible the part of the job act relating to active labour policies and ANPAL, as provided for in Legislative Decree no. 150. I am convinced - and we are convinced in many of us - that investing in resources, skills and tools for active labour policies can become crucial to raising the country's employment rate, in line with the objectives of the EU 2020 Strategy, including offering each individual the opportunity to get out of the pitfalls of social exclusion, raise the level of people's skills and contribute to a virtuous use of public resources. It is a piece that I consider the real foundation of the jobs act. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u37	I will speak with regard to Article 2, which is not right, and we are not. Article 2 deals with the extension of the term of the Commission for two categories of undertakings of national interest, those in a financial crisis and those in the process of industrial restructuring, giving the possibility to extend the Commissariat by one year. I say that we are not here, because you should all know that the Commission is a squeeze on the rights guaranteed by the Constitution: this is perhaps the real reason why the decree-law under consideration is not constitutional. Ordinary legislation must be the rule and not the exception. Every time you make a police station and an extension, make an exception and, therefore, compress your rights. Let us also say another thing: for whom is this provision made? This is an "ad company" decree: it is made for Blue Panorama, a failed Spanish air carrier. But, since you had the police station, the failure was frozen waiting for the Commissioner to make a stew, with the idea - it's the unhealthy idea that you get in your head - that the Commissioner can save the goat and the cabbages: the goat would be the company and the cabbage would be the employees. It usually does not safeguard either, but on the other hand it does a great deal of food by the Commissioners, who get two results: they put a high salary in their pockets and can boast in the curriculum that they have done the extraordinary commissioner of a large company, all without risk, because so much it is a decoctionary enterprise, which is about to fail. So all the Commissioner has to do is accompany the slaughter and the break-up something that would have gone to the bankruptcy court anyway. The other lie you keep telling is that the commissioners are used to protect employment. But never! It's as if, when I have a bathtub that loses because it has holes, instead of trying to plug them, I would open the water tap further. It's the same thing. If you really want to safeguard employment, which would actually be a safeguard of income or, in any case, the ability of people to provide for their livelihood, then you will intervene on that. The recipe is always the same - you should have learned it - and it's called: citizenship income, which would allow you to avoid all the perverse police stations. If, in fact, a company does not manage to stay on the market, because the management has wrong the accounts or because the conditions have changed, the market economy, which so much invoked, says one thing many simple: it just fails, because it means that they have not been able to be on the economic cycle or anticyclicals; in any case, they have wrong. Keeping a situation artificially alive means, among other things, unfair and wrong competition to others, who are not being policed. Then there is a large group of companies that are under - and there are - police stations that could join this extension. Let's make some names and talk about those in the phase of industrial restructuring: there is only one and it is the Ilva of Taranto. So the ILVA is already on the starting blocks to ask for a possible extension of another year, in case things go wrong; and they will go wrong, because the famous 1.2 billions that were to come back from Switzerland, and that your commissioner has budgeted, they don't come back, have evaporated. But you have budgeted them the same and, therefore, now there is a bigger problem, the size of 1.2 billion. Who else could go back there? Another subject called the "Divine Providence" nursing home. It is one of the very few cases, perhaps the only one in Italy, of a private home that loses money. Unbelievable! Everyone earns, while he loses, and not a little (half a billion), a nursing home that no one has ever heard of and that employs 1,440 people. And then, of that half a billion, 350 million are state credits, that is, ours. Therefore, in indifference, it was allowed that a subject, who is under investigation for crac, could squander so much money that it created a hole of 350 million in the state budget; and it could also lead to the extension. Moreover, give a gift to the commissioners, because there is a paragraph that says that, if there is a court ruling that states that the sale of a piece of a company has been ineffective, in the sense that it has not served the purpose because it has produced too little money or because the hole to cover is too big, it does nothing and it's okay; the commissioner was not too good and therefore, instead of giving him a year in more time, we give him only six months. This would be his punishment, which is another six months' salary. He hurt his job and, as a reward or punishment, we give him another six months' salary. Not bad! Let us make the commissioners too, who then maybe give the money back to the citizens and at least this will be the only thing in their pockets. One last comment: you made the wonderful ones and you brought out as many as 14 million for three alluvial events. Aren't there too many 14 million? Maybe we could reduce them. You have forgotten, however, - for example - what happened in Sicily or Calabria, since the one under consideration is a decree-law and those are really super-particular situations, because 750 millimeters of rain concentrated in thirty-six hours is really a unique (half the rainfall of a year). You didn't put anything for them. So, the question again is, how many Italies exist? Two, three, twenty, twenty-one? One per region? Whose children are these? Or perhaps those people are not enough voters and, therefore, do not constitute an electoral basin? However, you still have time to put in some extra money, just for fairness. One last thing is about school building. It was about pulling out 450 million, for one time, and that was the announcement, for the fools who believe it. Then we talked about the appropriations; the appropriation is a promise, the promise that I will give you money. Then, when it came to seeing the camel, the money went from 170 to 110. Every time you play the game of making people believe and promise something, but then you only give a part of it. What's going on? A work starts and someone opens a construction site, but then it doesn't go any further. In the meantime, however, you have been able to spend it, saying that you have put 110 million for school construction on the plate. Bravi, 110 out of 450 promises: this, by us, is called a fraud, a citizen's circon, an electoral circon. And, among them, there are also your voters, who will sooner or later get tired of getting caught up in the bottoms. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagliari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that when one thinks of the work carried out by the Government and tries to analyse this activity by stopping on the individual measure, one does a work that has little to do with intellectual honesty and high political confrontation. I also believe that, when reasoning such as that on the alleged unconstitutionality of this measure, which has a clear object (urgent economic and social measures) and has the capacity to address this issue in a non-sectoral way, but taking certain specific areas that need concrete measures, we are faced with the arguments of those who do not know what to say and what to argue in concrete terms. As well as when it is claimed that the measures are always insufficient. I believe that this is another argument that demonstrates poverty and the lack of evidence to counter the merits of the measures taken. I think that all this proves that, despite all the efforts and difficulties, the path taken by the government is the right one; piece after piece, it is putting the reconstruction of the country on the right path. I believe that this also shows that the humility of being able to attack and the determination to resolve the problems, one by one, are the most that this action of government demonstrates with respect to the actions of government past and also with respect to the actions of government to which it wanted to refer, quite clearly, the Senator Tosato of the League. I believe that if he thinks about that season, on the basis of the assessments he has made today, he should deny it. Because what season was marked by pure propaganda, destroyed a system and led the economy to disaster more than center-right? The forced resignation of the center-right government of November 2011 was not due to a conspiracy, they were required by a situation that led to the abyss and I believe that these elements should be kept in mind in a political dialogue that certainly must not hide or deny the differences, but that, if it has the objective of the interest of the country, it cannot move on rhetorical logic but must place itself in the perspective of assuming the problems and proposing concrete solutions to them. I believe that this decree-law, in its partiality and in its logic, which is to address specific problems, not being the seat of an organic discourse as was the law of stability, present elements of particular positivity. I want to refer specifically to Article 3 and not because it, in the first paragraph, provides for a measure in favour of my Province, that is the Province of Parma, for which I thank the Government. I do this because Article 3 introduces the criterion of the relaxation of the Stability Pact for works linked to weather or other disasters, introducing or strengthening the principle of the Stability Pact which must concern ordinaryity and cannot compress the necessary measures to deal with exceptional emergencies, whether of an atmospheric or other nature. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caridi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u41	Madam President, the amendments I have proposed to draft law No 2124 aim to rebalance the support measures intended solely and exclusively for a small part of the Italian territory towards a larger portion of the territory. I am referring to the Calabria Region, which has long been devastated by alluvial, environmental and seismic events that aggravate its state of abandonment, already significantly strong due to the incessant deindustrialisation and the high unemployment rate. Well, yet another disastrous alluvial event took place in the Province of Reggio Calabria on 30 and 31 October and on 1 and 2 November has further contributed to sinking the hopes of recovery of the territory, still strongly marked by the economic and social crisis that has hit our country and more the weaker areas of the Southern Italy. Destroyed houses and fields, damaged commercial and craft activities, destroyed roads and railways: in front of a picture of desolate devastation, which even more slows the hopes of the Calabrian people, it is a moral obligation of this Government and Parliament to show immediate and adequate attention to the Municipalities of the Province of Reggio Calabria, so as to confirm that they are wrong to feel increasingly abandoned by the political class. For this reason, the first of the proposed amendments aims to put on the same level the territories of Parma and Piacenza, hit by the alluvial events of last September, to which all our solidarity goes, with those of the Province of Reggio Calabria, who urgently need support and economic help to raise the already poor economy. For these we ask for the same resources and the same aid to Parma and Piacenza, that the objective of the Stability Pact be reduced to 10,5 million euros for the Province of Reggio Calabria and to a total of 3,679 million euros distributed among the municipalities affected by the event. The second amendment also requires that, in the balance valid for the purposes of compliance with the Internal Stability Pact, the costs incurred by local authorities, on the basis of the administrative surplus and on the resources resulting from the use of debt, should not be taken into account in order to deal with the damage caused by calamitous events that occurred in 2015. Moreover, it is required that the resolution of the Council of Ministers, often too late in relation to the event, be not considered, but rather the resolution of the state of emergency before the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of this decree-law by the competent Region. Otherwise, the local authorities of the Province of Reggio Calabria affected by the flood events of October and November would risk not being recognized the possibility of excluding from the Stability Pact the expenses incurred to deal with the damage, due to the absence of the necessary resolution of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u42	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u43	Madam President, we have listened to the various speeches on the question referred for a preliminary ruling, which has been very well explained (I am thinking in particular of Mr Stefani's speech). If we talk, we have to do it on something legitimate. The measure fulfils the requirements of necessity and urgency laid down in the Constitution. These are fairly flexible requirements, in the sense that we can adapt them and everything can be seen from the point of view of urgency, to the point that the Constitutional Court had to narrow down the field a little and, in the years in which it continued to repeat decrees-laws, it ruled that it cannot be repeated tout court decrees-laws that have not been converted in the terms provided for by law. The Constitutional Court also introduced another concept, which is that of homogeneity of matter. I would like to address my colleague, Mr Manassero, who - rightly - both in the Commission and in the course of his speech in this House said that there is no or no homogeneity in the matter, to the point that when the Commission was asked why the other part of the measure was not explained, the answer was that the Commission was not competent, since it was an alien matter. In fact, the measure goes from the argument of the decoration of school buildings (reliable to the subject of school building) to that of socially useful works (reliable to the subject of work) and mixes the issues of large enterprises in extraordinary administration (problems of economy and the maximum systems) with those of the territories affected by exceptional weather events (the only theme that could perhaps be of urgency, but outside the matter of decree-law, as it relates to that of civil protection and emergency intervention). If the government can afford the luxury of forcing Parliament to talk about what it wants and not what the law allows, then we are all entitled to talk about what we want. At this point the government does what it wants (even what it couldn't even do), but I don't do what I want and I only deal with a small issue contained in the provision: I am referring to the topic of work. The summary of the summary could be: it is a measure that cuts workers' money, because that is the case; in fact, EUR 50 million is cut at the Social Fund for Employment and Training. This happens after the Government has reiterated on several occasions that it is necessary to increase spending, consumption and domestic demand, giving back oxygen and some extra money to those who do not have a propensity to save (ergo, must spend all their salary to live). After doing these good reasonings, the Government is going to cut its own sector aimed at integrating those in difficulty and needs public support for employment. After maybe losing days of work and negotiating with the Regions to find solutions to these social emergencies, the Government gives a pen and says: "as I promised the school and I did not keep the promise" - it is not an urgency, however, because maintaining a public building in perfect efficiency is not an extraordinary thing, but it is part of the ordinary and it is the most normal and obvious thing that there is - "we remove money from the Social Fund for employment and training to give it to the school." It is therefore a round game within the measure. Speaking of work, let us compare it with the measure we have just fired, namely the law of stability. The entire public sector for seven years has been blocked all kinds of renewal and wage adjustment and therefore the three million workers that make up it are satisfied with 300 million euros, which, translated, means an increase in salary of about eight euros per month. If we want to see it even more serious, let us look at the security sector, which has achieved EUR 74 million, which, divided by all the employees of the sector, means EUR 7 per head. We are talking about the Carabinieri, the police and the system of public security forces, which today are called to an extraordinary effort, as anyone who has filmed for Rome can see. In fact, we understand that the moment is such that we must put on track all the possible deterrent and all the possible armed forces, in order to give security to the citizens and to make deterrent to those who want to destabilize our country as well. In the law of stability we proposed a trivial thing, of course it failed, and it cost nothing. We have proposed, in fact, since with the 5 per thousand of the IRPEF we finance a series of associations, which are sometimes the cover of other activities, unlegal or unlegitimate, and we find these same associations in the square, to fight urban battles, against public security and our agents, to give at least the option to the taxpayer citizen the possibility to choose who will allocate their 5 per thousand, if these associations or the police, who perhaps give some positive response and calm all of us citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] As a result of forgetting the sector, the whole of the public security sector will slip into the area of poverty: they are already at the limit today. In a while they may be rewarded, because falling below a certain threshold could at least get the 80 euros per month, which give themselves almost alms, for all those working situations under a certain income threshold. It is shameful what this Government is not doing, as it mocks people and its servants, who do their best, without seeing the overtime recognized, with wages of misery, receiving a raise from homeless people, but who are still in the front row, ready to give even the extreme sacrifice of life for the nation. It's shameful how we're treating them. This is a part of the world of work, but all workers, after all the Filipinos of the Renzi Government, must be seen to cut an additional 50 million euros, because, having promised them to the school, they must take off the sector and the social fund for employment. It would be to use epithets and strong words: let's just say shame, shame, three times shame! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u44	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u45	Madam President, this measure certainly contains provisions on which our judgment is not biased. We know very well that there is a situation that concerns the staff involved in the school for cleaning activities, that this problem has existed for a long time, that is always managed in an emergency condition and that, instead, should be subject to a more organic disposition. We know that situations of difficulty exist for some events in the history of industrial activity in Italy: these too are always managed with provisions that have an emerging character, where there would be a need for an organic discussion of industrial policy, also with reference to some sensitive sectors that concern large companies. Finally, we know that there are real problems related to the calamitous events that come to repeat year after year, and also in this case we intervene with provisions of an emerging nature, in a disorderly, often even partial way, favouring some realities and penalising others, as often happens when we intervene with individual measures that must be addressed to that calamitous event rather than to the whole of situations that instead deserve a more organic regulation. This is what we want to say, especially in the areas covered by this measure, and in particular in relation to those covered by Article 3. All of us had undertaken to set up a framework rule on natural disaster interventions, so that every local authority, every citizen, every structure of the state or local self-government knew what it had before it if a calamitous event of particular gravity had occurred. Every citizen, every community, every local authority, in this case - that is, in the event of an organic discussion of the matter - would know exactly what kind of interventions to follow the case, the event, the situation of difficulty that is caused by a calamitous event. I say this precisely because - I repeat - we had made the commitment, the government had taken it. We discussed here, presented motions, in every circumstance; when we found ourselves measures of this nature to be addressed and discussed we recalled the need to deal with this topic in a timely way, and to establish a grid of quality of interventions and also of financial consistency, which cannot vary from area to area affected by the calamitous event, from Region to Region, from local community to local community; it must always be the same, because of the gravity, the damage produced, the misfortunes borne by the populations, the bereavements that have accompanied themselves to that type of tragic event. So I say to the Government: how long do we have to wait for your proposal to be discussed and approved by Parliament? Should we wait for another tragic calamitous event or can we give ourselves a deadline? We can say that the government, within the next three months, will make a proposal to Parliament saying: In cases where calamitous events occur, is this the quality of the interventions that we put on the field, these are the actors involved, these are the extraordinary commissioners that we give the competences to be able to do the interventions on the territory? Can we establish that six months are sufficient for the government to make an organic proposal so as to think that next autumn, rather than next winter, we will not be faced with commercial interventions of this nature, always having to put in an emergency decree the necessary measures? The issue also concerns other aspects. We're full of insecure people. We are facing a devastated situation. When we can begin to say that we also put order in public administrations. That we close the open games and begin to regulate more carefully all the events that concern us? What happens is that, in order to tackle a problem of mass unemployment, we set up extraordinary tools, such as the socially useful jobs, rather than the public utilities, which were invented a few years ago. It must be understood that those instruments have intervened to support the industrial and productive conversion of the country, not to leave on the road workers who had been expelled from the private system. This system would have had to reorganize itself and strengthen the industrial production capacity of our country through this opportunity of burden transferred to public finance; which it did not do, because it had too much time to guarantee itself and its profits, not carrying out that political and social function that even industry and even private capital must carry out. This system cannot charge on public finance every obligation it has assumed and then ask for public spending to be restricted and for other resources to be directed to the private sector when the public has taken charge of it: not only because of social issues, but also to ensure that the world can make progress. Steps forward have not been taken; it has taken advantage of the situation, and now we remain the bills to honor until the end, and we always do so, with decree-laws that have an annual breath, and that we must renew. How long do we have to wait for the government to come forward with an organic proposal on which we can all discuss so as to ensure a solution that, over time, does not anguish the workers concerned and even those pieces of public administration that need to work? Although we are not prejudiced by the contents of the provision, we nevertheless raise this issue, and we ask that the Government, even in its reply, give some response, at least on some of these chapters dealt with within the decree-law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Catalfo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this House is debating yet another omnibus decree-law issued by this Government. A decree-law that should deal, to read the titles of the articles, with important issues: the safety of school buildings and the hydrogeological failure. But the question, ladies and gentlemen, is how these issues are dealt with in the decree-law. From the point of view of the 5 Star Movement, they are dealt with little and badly. In fact, the first two articles, rather than dealing with school buildings, deal with the extension of socially useful workers, used by schools and public administrations. I would like to focus on the word 'proroga', which the workers and the Aules have heard for decades now: never say you want to solve the problem definitively. To us of the 5 Star Movement it comes to think that the obstinacy of this Government and this majority in extending the precariousness of the workers returns useful precisely to those who propose it. Leaving citizens and workers in conditions of eternal precariousness and uncertainty - in this case they are people who have been doing this so-called work for more than fifteen years - not only does it not allow them to carry out a project of life, to take care of their family, to form and to retrain themselves in order to enter the world of work with a serious project as we propose with the income of citizenship, but, on the contrary, keeps them in a limbo where there are no contributions paid, where there is no real contract of employment and keeps them tied mainly to the decisions of politics. My eyes have seen many times groups of socially useful workers called to listen to the politician on duty who promises them the so-called extension, which is carried out from year to year precisely to keep them tied and to allow such politicians to have an electoral basin and clientele over the years. With this decree-law, neither the problem of workers, nor the problem of school construction, is permanently resolved. The school buildings are not refurbished and are renewed, despite the fine words such as good school and beautiful school, with a very fast training course done to the socially useful workers who previously played the role of school worker and who now improvise bricklayers, painters and so on. Interventions must be made in a structural, important way and with correct, fair and equitable resources. If they are done well we must ask Italian families and students. Personally, I also went around the schools of my city and I saw how they are: the ceilings collapse, and we are lucky when they collapse at night or at night, but they also collapse during the day. Under those ceilings, those roofs, those corridors where it rains and those collapses there are children, entire schoolchildren, boys, teachers and staff who are entitled to live and be kept in a safe place. Italian families, Italian mothers and Italian fathers must be able to feel safe and quiet when they send their children to school and do not think that, at any moment, they could be injured because there is a collapse of a ceiling. That happened to me, too. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But you, rather than intervening in hydrogeological risk prevention works, prefer to camouflage and pretend to tackle the problem by giving titles and titles to meaningless decrees that have nothing to do with school building. On the other hand, you have no problem - I am talking about the recent law of stability - giving bank foundations funding to create a so-called fund for combating educational poverty and for bank foundations to be managed - I would like to understand why - of projects to combat school dispersal. That's why you don't have a problem. We think that we should intervene with a structural plan both on school construction and on the precariousness of workers. That is exactly what we have proposed in the Commission. We therefore believe that the internationalisation of services, with the consequent extension of the workforce, must be ensured in order to finally achieve the possibility of stabilising workers through special competitive procedures which take account of the skills acquired. We also believe that checks should be stepped up on the firms of so-called historical contracts and more generally on the companies entrusted with the outsourced services, often attributable to multinationals, in particular as regards compliance with minimum wages, since the practice of outsourcing has created unjustified and unjustified unequal treatment between staff employed in the same jobs and has also given rise to numerous disputes between workers with regard to these firms which do not apply appropriate rules to ensure that the worker is paid in the correct way. We also ask that the Employment and Training Fund, which should be used to make workers more employable and more trained and retrained, should not be identified as the cover of Article 1. For these reasons, we do not therefore agree with all that is provided for in the decree-law under consideration. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u47	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cuomo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with dramatic punctuality we are forced to intervene legislatively on the issues arising from natural disasters also amplified and certainly caused by the exploitation of the territory that has been killing and causing considerable damage to the country's widespread economy for years. May I express all the closeness, as well as the populations affected by the extraordinary weather events and magnetosis included in this decree-law, also to the populations of Beneventano and Reggino affected by the last events, which will surely find in a subsequent measure the opportunity to see healed the damage caused also by those calamitous events. I was very impressed by the reading of Article 3 of the decree-law in question, when it talks about dealing, for the year 2015, with the damage caused by the exceptional weather events that hit the territory of the provinces of Parma and Piacenza on 13 and 14 September. Well, I have to say that unfortunately this exceptionality is becoming a rule. I have listened very carefully to my fellow Members, Pagliari and Caridi, and unfortunately we have to note that at least the principle of equality applies here: natural disasters take place throughout the country, apart from socio-economic indicators. Dear President Tonini, I pose a socio-economic problem by sticking to the subject of the decree-law and I wonder if it is better to intervene first, with system laws that focus on prevention or if it is more beneficial for the state at the economic and social level to place resources to repair damages. Mr Uras has made an extremely welcome speech on this. I tried to give a response by presenting two draft laws: one on hydrogeological risk management and prevention (presented on 11 February 2014), the other on volcanic risk mitigation and civil protection planning. I am a Vesuvian, I come from Naples; we live with volcanic risk, with an active volcano, and we believe it is necessary to have a system law that intervenes on risk prevention and, in an orderly manner, on the planning of civil protection interventions. Both measures are aimed at taking action in the broad field of prevention. However, despite the usual damage count and, therefore, the urgency, we are obliged to note - and I am obliged to stigmatize - that after several months (eight months for the one presented on hydrogeological risk) the articulations are still waiting to see the start of the process in the relevant Commission, which is the 13th. 6.30 p.m. (Follow CUOMO). In all evidence, I await the usual urgency with which ex post we intervene to repair the damage caused by atmospheric events, which seem increasingly predictable and customary from year to year (and we hope that for this calendar year and for this financial year we stop to this decree-law), I cannot understand the delays in facing a discussion of merit on system measures in the matter of prevention of hydrogeological risks. This delay in dealing with this matter seems to me completely unmotivated and contrary to the alleged objectives of government action in environmental matters. [[Applause from Senators Uras, Puglia and Bencini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u49	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from 22 May 2014 to today (almost two years, for the truth eighteen months), the Renzi Government has intervened by decree-law 42 times (there are two other decree-laws that must come and then we will get to 44 times). It seems to me that nothing has been done to serve the references and recommendations expressed by the President of the Republic of Mattarella, who, on the occasion of his inauguration speech, reiterated the need to overcome the logic of the constant derogation from the ordinary forms of the legislative process, balancing the needs of the Government with the respect of a correct parliamentary dialectic. Also on this occasion we are faced with a decree-law that the Senate did not have the opportunity to examine thoroughly, let alone to modify: it was approved by the Chamber of Deputies on 4 November and the Senate will have to substantially ratify the text, because the deadline for conversion to law is due to expire (30 November). I would also like to recall the bad practice of incorporating the rules of a decree-law into a provision under parliamentary scrutiny, allowing the decree to lapse: it happened with the decree-law on regional finance, absorbed by the law of stability, and seems to affect the same fate even at the last decree-law saves banks. This is an incorrect way of lawmaking, which is very damaging to the balance of the Government-Parliament relationship and to the clarity of the overall legal and regulatory framework. On the substance of this measure, I shall confine myself to examining only two articles. Under Article 1, a total of EUR 110 million is allocated, but this grant cannot guarantee the total funding required for the extraordinary plan for the restoration of the decorum and functionality of school buildings. We believe that every penny spent on the school is a well-expensive resource; it is a matter of allocating resources to teachers, school buildings, libraries, services that revolve around the school, it is always money well spent, because the school is a great investment for the future of our society. However, in school construction, undersecretary De Micheli and Pizzetti, there is a great confusion. I have always followed school construction and I remember the first resolutions, those of 2011, those of 2010 and the various measures; compared to this, it seems to me that, with every measure and every deletion, there are different rules: there are measures whose resources can be used only for the consolidation of the structures, others for the consolidation of the structures and for the construction of new buildings, still others entrust to the mayors also the power to be commissioners, being able to derogate also from the rules that concern the contracts. Then there is the problem of excluding school building interventions from the Stability Pact, because even if the administration has some money on its own, it must be able to use these resources to clean up school buildings. I believe, however, that what interests us above all is the structural and anti-seismic adaptation of school buildings and the new construction, to replace buildings that are more than fifty or sixty years old and that are no longer adequate, even in relation to the experiences made in terms of seismic safety. Unfortunately, the resources put in place so far are completely inadequate. Compared to this situation, it seems to me that thinking about the decorum and functionality of the schools before providing for their safety from the static point of view, is a mistake of perspective: first we secure the buildings and then we paint them and set them up inside them. With regard to Article 3, we welcome the intervention in support of the territories of Parma and Piacenza, which were affected by the emergency of bad weather last September. It is a necessary and important aid to deal with the first reconstruction works for the safety of buildings and the resumption of economic activities in those municipalities. However, I would like to stress that the Government does not manifest a serious and concrete will to address the deep causes that are the basis of the cyclical repetition of emergencies due to bad weather. Where has the National Plan against the hydrogeological failure, which is always announced and which should include about 7,000 works and interventions for a value that the Regions estimate around 20 billion? To date, the government's action in the fight against hydrogeological failure has resulted in the adoption of a so-called withdrawal plan that includes about 130 interventions in large metropolitan and urban areas, worth about 1.3 billion compared to the 20 needed. This plan, moreover, has up to now been financed only half, and unfortunately no resources are foreseen in the Stability Act now under discussion. Without doubt, therefore, the resources provided for in this article 3 are positive, but we are concerned about the marginality, the lack of consideration that the problem of failures finds in the Government. The proposal by Forza Italia in the Commission also concerned the need to exclude from the Stability Pact interventions concerning hydrogeological disruptions. To conclude, we are called to convert a decree-law that contains uneven measures, inconsistent with each other, which carry buffer interventions and postpone to date those structural solutions, as regards both the school building and the protection of the soil, which the country has been waiting for too long. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u51	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u52	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u53	Mr President, I will only make two comments on the two main objections that I have heard to the decree-law on our examination by my colleagues in the opposition. The first concerns the widespread abuse of the urgent decree in this House. It is clear that we all agree that for a long time, I would not say immemorial but certainly for a long time, the governments that have alternated have given life to this abuse, and certainly the use of urgent decrees must be reduced. The constitutional reform that we have discussed for a long time, tried and approved, also provides for procedures that allow governments to approve in certain times norms that are part of the essential program of the Government without resorting to the instrument of the decree of urgency, moreover often accompanied by the institute also extraordinary of confidence. So these criticisms certainly fit in a long line; but honestly, in this case, it seemed to me that the cannon was used against a fly, in the sense that we are in the presence of a decree-law that contains five very clear, very precise and very precise rules, which intervene on four very detailed issues, with a mobilization of important resources, but certainly not impressive. It is therefore an instrument which actually affects, on the basis of evidence of necessity and urgency, four issues in a very precise and limited manner. The other more complex issue, which has been addressed for the truth also by colleagues of the majority, last in order of time also by Senator Cuomo, concerns the fact that the five articles that make up this decree-law address issues that should be resolved on the basis of a broader perspective, therefore through reforms and not through interventions downstream. I am thinking of the reasoning that led the colleague of the 5 Star Movement on the theme of the precariousness of work or, as in the case of Senator Cuomo, the problem of the hydrogeological structure of our country, which sees us forced to chase each time the issue of floods and other tragedies that are consumed throughout our country, from north to south. This is certainly a very real issue. However, the opposition colleagues will have to consider a fact that seems difficult to me to oppose: no government and no majority, as these are doing at the moment, have ever engaged Parliament and the country in such a strong and ambitious activity of structural reforms. Then, of course, it is clear that there are different opinions between the majority and the opposition on the merits of the reforms, because otherwise we would all agree and that is certainly not the case; from the opposition, very legitimately, we criticize the merit of the reforms that are being proposed. But of course everything can be said about this Government, except that it chases emergencies one at a time and does not try, as I think it is clear that it is trying to do, to address issues with a medium-term perspective and a reformist approach that addresses the fundamental issues. That is what I would like to say to my fellow Members in their reply. I therefore recommend to the House a vote in favour of this measure, which addresses and solves, certainly with the logic of the urgent decree and therefore with a transitional logic, four problems that would otherwise risk causing serious issues to our country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u54	Colleagues, for agreements established directly between the Groups and following the convening of the meeting of a parliamentary group, the reply of the representative of the Government will take place in the afternoon sitting of tomorrow. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u55	Ten of our colleagues have asked to speak at the end of the sitting. I would therefore urge the Conference of the Leaders to discuss, at tomorrow's meeting, some sort of self-regulation, because otherwise there is a debate in the debate, which cannot be foreseen.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u58	PHASE (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that a school executive, Livio Bearzi, is serving four years and more in prison in Udine. I went to visit him two days ago; the sentence went to trial and I believe that he is the first principal to go to prison and this for responsibilities related to Legislative Decree No 81 of 2008, the single text on health and safety at work. His detention at the prison in Udine, in execution of the sentence of conviction confirmed in Cassation on October 23, is linked to the earthquake that broke L'Aquila on May 6, 2009 and caused, in that context of devastation, also the collapse of the institute of which he was rector Bearzi, the National Council Domenico Cotugno, collapse in which three students lost their lives and two others were wounded. The council had its seat in a nineteenth-century vaulted building and, as far as security is concerned, the manager was charged with a behavior of inertia for the omitted assessment of the enormous danger incumbent on the palace, where it had allowed the continuation of the activities. Moreover, the National Council had been evacuated seven days before the earthquake of 6 April, followed by the fire department and the technicians of the Province, Municipality and Civil Protection who, from what I have read on the press, would have given the flexibility for the resumption of activities. I am well aware of the problem by personally directing several schools, which is no small matter which has been dealt with several times among the managers. Without entering into the specific of the sentence or its motivations, which is not possible, I will say that it is a dramatic story that has shaken the world of the school and not only because of the tragedy of the death and wounding of young students; in fact the soul of the school is also experiencing the drama of an executive who, if he is responsible for safety, is also overwhelmed by a complex regulation and such as to determine demands of an extremely delicate technical nature, to which, although prepared, he is hardly able to cope without specific skills, titles and specific training. Of course, the management, maintenance, safety and control of public buildings, all the more so in the case of schools, must be part of a national plan that engages, beginning with the areas with the highest seismic risk, the best professionalism. [[Call the president back.]] I realize that there is little time at my disposal, but I want to say that in recent days several Members have taken a stand and visited the prison in Udine. I join them, publicly expressing full support for both the request for the granting of presidential pardon for Principal Bearzi and for other initiatives that really put hand to this problem which is absolutely not secondary. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u61	MATTESINI (PD). Mr President, I rise to report an incident to the Government and ask for important attention to be paid to it. I am referring to the episode, which, among other things, is not the only one, which took place last week in the territory of the municipalities of Badia Tedalda and Sestino and which concerns an explosion of the Snam pipeline, near Sestino in the high Val Marecchia. The explosion seems to have been caused by a rupture, due to the structural failure of a pipe, and, as I was able to detect from the photographs and carrying out surveys, it originated sparks that triggered a scary fire, with flames over 50 meters high, causing naturally great fear in the inhabitants of the area, also because the blast of the explosion was felt many kilometers away. There was an immediate intervention by the dispatching center of the Snam network of San Donato Milanese that ended the accident, but the point is another. Meanwhile, it is learned from the newspapers that Arezzo's proxy is intervening because it seems to be arson; at the same time, together with the seals affixed to the methane pipeline, what is even more alarming is that it is evident from the acts and reports with the stations of the Carabinieri that the laying in operation of the pipes dates back to the early seventies and, unlike the law regarding monitoring, it seems that the last survey dates back to about fifteen years ago. Moreover, there is talk of a territory, that of the hills of Badia Tedalda and Sestino, cataloged as regards seismicity as zone 2, that is, zone with high seismic risk. Taking care of this issue, I realized that episodes of this type have occurred, among other things in silence, also in other parts of the Italian territory. In the last two years we are at about six-seven episodes, with explosion of pipelines right in Apennine areas with high seismicity. I point this out to the Government because I believe it is necessary to take care of it and reassure the people of the territory. If it were true that Snam did not comply with the law, passing fifteen years since the last verification, there needs to be an important attention because we talk about mountain territories and also see how much damage and concern this very dangerous incident has caused in the population. Among other things, we are talking about mountain areas where it is already difficult to live in view of the conditions of the Apennines and to which is added this element of insecurity. I would therefore point out this fact by asking the Government for important attention in order to understand exactly what has happened and, above all, to take measures to ensure that there is real reassurance to the people and also to the local institutions. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u64	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 2011 the project called "Razionalisation and development of the National Transmission Network (RTN) in the middle of the Piave valley" was approved. It is currently being evaluated by the National Environmental Impact Assessment Technical Commission (EIA) and comments can be made until the end of this month. However, the project is strongly contested first of all by citizens, who have been calling for a discussion table for years to find the best possible solution for the territory. The disputes have also been raised by the municipalities, which have highlighted their opposition to the project with resolutions and formal acts, and by the Veneto Region, which has asked on two occasions (with a resolution and a resolution) to suspend the ongoing EIA procedure in order to review the entire project in the light of the new technologies and changing energy needs of the country. These protests - I invite colleagues to be careful - do not aim to curb the infrastructural development of the country and Bellunese, in particular, we would miss: we oppose a project that Terna defines as rationalization, but that, according to us, presents several critical issues. The first is the danger of defacement of a territory of extreme beauty, declared by UNESCO a World Heritage Site, with absolutely impacting works and outdated technology. The trellises, between 40 and 60 meters high and armed at 300 kilovolts, will dominate ridges and valleys, interfering heavily with the visual cones of the UNESCO sites of the Dolomites, protected for their high landscape and geological value. The electricity grid in the project will also impact seriously on the valley crossed by the river Piave, which will be crossed four times, over about 40 kilometers, by the cables in question. To the defacement of the landscape we go in this case to add also the interference with the alpine and health rescue operations, very frequent in the mountains. In the past, the power grid cables have caused the fall of an alpine rescue helicopter, causing the deaths of four people. In the municipality of Belluno the electric line will pass to the margins of the cone of flight of the airport "Arturo dell'Oro", preclude the future development of the air surface and compromise its operation in case of emergency, without silence of the increased danger to the landings in case of adverse weather conditions. The project is also criticized because it is planned with outdated technologies. The indeterminity of the design and its fragmentation do not allow to infer a strategic and unitary vision of the interventions programmed by Terna, as it is possible to infer also from the observations of the Ministry of the environment and the Veneto Region. For this reason, committees and local authorities call for the revision of the project with technologies that Terna has already used in other regions, exploiting existing infrastructure corridors, such as the motorway. Our battle, as the committees say, is for doing, doing now and doing well. We therefore invite Terna to a greater dialogue with stakeholders and the Government to pay attention to these territorial authorities, making the appropriate checks on the activities carried out by Terna and to express clearly and unequivocally with a position regarding the action that a public capital company is doing. [[Applause from Senator Puglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u67	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the environmental situation in the province of Pavia to your attention and knowledge. In the short time I have available, I will only give you little information, but very significant. The province of Pavia is in second place in Italy, beaten only by Milan, for deaths caused by air pollution, with 25,000 deaths at national level, according to ISTAT data. The other negative record, shared with the Milanese territory, is the incidence of tumors, which, in our province, are cause of death for 40 percent of males and 27 percent of females. In 2015, according to the ASL report, the mortality rate for tumours in the Pavesi males is 10 percent higher than that of the other Lombards and 18 percent better than the national average, while in the Pavesi females it is 11 percent higher than that of the other Lombards, and 19 percent higher than the national average. This situation is the result of the concentration of many plants, with strong environmental impact, in the province of Pavia: incinerators (Parona and Corteolona, to name two), landfills (Albonese, Casatisma, Cervesina, etc.), landfills of asbestos cement (Ferrera Erbognone, Cava Manara), the largest refinery in Europe, in Sannazzaro de'Burgondi, the ex-Fibronit of Broni, a site of national interest (SIN) polluted with asbestos, 68 plants producing electricity from biogas, 15 from biomass and 11 sewage sludge treatment plants. In addition, authorisations for other installations, including an out-of-use tyre treatment plant by means of a trampoline, are currently being evaluated. It is a system that has never been used in Italy and in Europe, of doubtful operation, but a source of certain pollution. Today, as many as 40 mayors, with the delegation of at least as many mayors, and the provincial administration, representing the citizens of the whole Province of Pavia, went to Milan, to the Lombardy Region, to protest about this unsustainable situation. However, I also believe that Parliament and the Government cannot remain insensitive to this situation, which is now a real serious environmental emergency.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u70	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, last Thursday the Civic Museum of Castelvecchio, in Verona, was miserably attacked: six paintings by Tintoretto and masterpieces by Rubens, Pisanello, Mantegna, Jacopo Bellini, Giovanni Francesco Caroto were stolen. It had never happened, in Italy, that so many paintings were stolen in the same act, humiliating, mortifying and annihilating the soul of a great museum. In my memory this is the biggest scandal in the history of art crimes in Italy. The estimated value of the stolen works may vary between 10 and 15 million euros, but in addition to considering the economic value of the works, we must talk about a very serious fact. Shocking is above all the ease that the criminals have encountered in perpetrating this gesture, in the historic center, without being practically seen, fleeing undisturbed, with a yellow regarding the decommissioning of the alarm system. We wake up therefore aware that our historical and artistic heritage is defenseless. The museums, in Verona as in other parts of Italy, were massacred by budget cuts: that of Castelvecchio was guarded by a single guard and the joke wanted the criminals to have fled precisely by the vehicle of this guard. The question is whether it was a robbery on commission, but today it is not important if behind this act there is a mobster, a collector, a terrorist or a criminal. As in Nineveh or Palmyra, a huge patrimony has been stolen from public use: so it is not just a theft, but a massacre of civilizations. We oppose ISIS, which destroys Palmira, and we allow this on our national territory. To those who ask how, in the face of the facts of black news of these days, we can deal with art, I remember the words of Francois Hollande: "ISIS wants to attack the very idea of France." The theft of Verona, then - I have no problem to say - attacks the very idea of Italy: its identity, its image in the world. That is why I have taken action with my colleagues in the Committee on Public Education, Cultural Heritage, to proceed with acts addressed to the Government aimed at soliciting awareness and concrete actions aimed at protecting a heritage that is our own identity. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u73	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, this year there are already three deaths from accidents at work on the quarries of Carrara. Not even three months after the last broken life, another worker lost his life yesterday. He is Nicola Mazzucchelli, forty-six years old, father of four children. He had the task of overseer of the quarry of Calocara 102, in the basin of Torano. It happened that a pearl of diamond wire used for cutting blocks, during the breaking of the wire, struck it like a bullet to the head. In just four minutes the tragedy was consumed. In Carrara one lives and dies of marble. Only in August had another worker fallen from the Colonnata basin, also forty-six years old, also an expert cavalier, and before that another. Today twenty-four hours of strike have been proclaimed by the Confederal Trade Unions in order not to make the attention on the topic of safety at work. The workers' representatives complain about the stylicide of human lives also due to the lack of reorganization of the stone sector, which does not start also because of the continuous delays of the regulations. The urgent opening of a table on the safety of the sector in question is required, and from here I also address an invitation to the president of the Tuscany Region, Enrico Rossi, to take action in this regard. In Tuscany the white deaths are in great increase: since the beginning of the year there have already been 56; 20 more than last year, and, if you add the deaths in itinere, you reach 85. It is a phenomenon that must ask us questions and encourage us all to find immediate solutions. Every day lost could be a lost life. The increase in this is 47.5% compared to 2014: practically an ecatombe. Today, in the Committee on Accidents, I called for the start of a cognitive investigation, with an inspection of the quarry areas by the Commissioners as soon as possible, and hearings of representatives of those bodies who can provide the necessary help to regulate the protection and safety of the lives of our fellow citizens. It is no longer tolerable that in 2015 there are people who get up in the morning to go to work and no longer return home. From these classrooms I invite all of you to join us in our mourning for Mr. Nicola Mazzucchelli's family. So for me and my colleague Laura Bottici, our fellow citizen of Carrara goes the biggest hug. Mr President, I would ask you to keep your attention to white deaths and deaths at work. This is our intent and our will. We will do everything, as a 5 Star Movement (but I believe it is a feeling shared by all the political groups), to find normative answers as soon as possible so that this can never happen again. [[Applause from Senator Albano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u74	Senator Paglini, of course, the Presidency is in agreement with your condolences for this tragedy.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u77	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the House a question which will ask the relevant ministries why the Calabria region is lagging behind in not providing funds for the coordination of children, which manages a network of proximity on the ground to a population affected by very important conditions of marginality and social exclusion. In particular, I would like to remind you that the Calabria Region, which is on the dock of defendants (and must remain there), spends an average per capita of 27 euros for the subjects for whom it intervenes, when the national average is just above 100 euros per capita. However, while spending much less than other Regions (even southern), with regard to the attention to minors, who are somehow adhered to by 52 family homes, 87 day centres and 6 socio-educational centers, able to relate to 1,439 minor in difficulty, the Calabria Region, relative to the financial commitments for the year 2014, with all these structures, has only paid, at best, the quotas corresponding to the first semester of the same 2014. For 2015, since we are at the end of the year, only the first quarter has been paid for some facilities. In fact, this is a delay that should be about 17-18 million euros, and without the site of the Calabria Region itself allowing a citizen, or at least a user, to have correct information. Even in terms of transparency, we are far behind. I would also like to mention an even more serious issue concerning the European ban on "Children's and Supplementary Services', which has also given the Calabria Region a premium for the quality of the ban itself. Well, since 2011, with Regional Councils that have alternated (and of all colors), the operators that have invested (and this is economy of the third sector) have not yet received a single euro. In Calabria the situation of drop out and school dispersal has the sad national primacy. Some gentlemen may hold conferences, even in the Senate, on the defence of children's and children's rights, and then, when it comes to providing funding to those entitled, they disappear. If there are structures that do not deserve recognition and custody, then action is taken on them. But once the convention is there, it must be honored. Pacta sunt servanda. The Calabria Region may not only not know Latin, but it does not even know legal civilization. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u80	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask the answer to a question tabled on 25 June this year, No 3-02015, addressed to the Presidency of the Council and to the Ministry of Economic Development. The topic for us is extremely important because it concerns my city, Sulmona, which has been downgraded from pole of attraction to intermediate pole. With our question we wish to know the criteria under which this downgrading was carried out, because we believe that Sulmona has all the requirements to be a pole of attraction.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u81	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-541.ana.u82	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 25 November, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.10 a.m.
