ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u10	DE BIASI (PD). Madam President, I would like to ask my colleagues for a moment of attention or at least a moment of silence. Tomorrow, April 24th, is the centenary of the Armenian genocide. In a 1915 chronicle Giacomo Gorrini, Italian consul in Trebisonda, in an interview, which still remains today one of the most documented reports on the elimination of Armenians, said: The boats loaded with people knocked down. The guys and the guys who went through with it. And then rapes, kidnappings of young women, child slavery. Newspapers around the world were at that time full of chronicles of the terrible events that took place within Anatolia. And again: "About three quarters of the Armenian people disappeared in Turkey in the thousand ways of horror. The men were immediately killed, the women, with the weight of the old and the children, started at the slow death of the deportation in the desert. Leaded wagons, primitive gas chambers, collective eliminations were used. It is also for this reason that the Armenian genocide is considered the first of the century of genocide. The words quoted are present in an essay by Antonia Arslan, the great writer, author of "La masseria delle lardole" (The Allodole Masseria), a novel that should be read and studied in the schools of our country. It is a form of historical novel of our time that tells that horror and, once again, that banality of evil. The European Union has voted this week on a resolution on the Armenian genocide; Portugal has recently recognised the Armenian genocide; the recognition of the Armenian genocide by Pope Bergoglio has shaken the world from indifference and opened a new path to peace and reconciliation between peoples. Because what has been remains and cannot be rewritten. Words have a great weight, because they redesign the contours of memory and prevent it from disappearing in the pure reconstruction of events. I say this today because today the destiny of humanity is common and peace and dialogue must prevail over the past. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, dear President, it is important that Turkey also does not interrupt the thread of hope that binds us, because today's Turkey, so close to Europe, is not responsible for its past, but is responsible with all of us for the future of coexistence and peace. The lesson that comes to us from the genocide century is definitive: we want what happened never to happen again. That is why we are fighting for the affirmation of the freedom of peoples, dignity, respect and human rights as universal rights and all the more so today because we are witnessing the bloody return of fundamentalisms that destroy religious symbols, cultural goods, lives and hopes. The world of differences cannot and must not become the scene of new oppressions. We say this today by celebrating the Armenian genocide, today because in a few days, on April 25, we will celebrate the 70th anniversary of the liberation from the Nazi Fascism of our country and, therefore, we say it with a common intention of safeguarding and fighting for democracy. That is why we are celebrating the centenary of the Armenian genocide with a spirit of solidarity and closeness, which are the property of the interparliamentary group "Friends of Armenia," which I have the honour to preside over. We cannot cling to traditions; we cannot continue to look to the past. We need to reaffirm the values of democracy, respect and coexistence, and that is also the meaning of our interparliamentary group. Madam President, in celebrating this terrible event, the genocide that has unfortunately started what has been rightly called the century of genocide, in memory of those millions of deaths of the Armenian genocide and all those millions of deaths in the other genocides of the terrible short century that we have behind us, to look to the future and to send out a signal and a message of hope, I ask you to involve this House in a minute of silence. [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u11	Thank you, Senator De Biasi. I would ask the House to observe a minute's silence and recollection. [[The President stands up and with you the whole House, who observes a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u14	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I participated and listened carefully to the memory of the Armenian genocide made by Senator De Biasi and, of course, I accepted the proposal to observe a minute's silence. However, I would point out to the Presidency that it would be good if, on such important matters, the Groups were informed of their intention to speak in this House for a remembrance. On the genocide in Armenia in 1915 there would be many episodes to be told, that we would have been pleased to bring back to the House. I would therefore like to say to the Groups that, in the face of events of this importance, it would perhaps be better to put the whole House in touch with the fact that, on an occasion such as this one, we intend to make such a remembrance. It is not the prerogative of a group to recall such a tragic event of the last century. I therefore join in the intervention of Senator De Biasi with the same words, unfortunately late, but I would have liked to have been informed in advance, in order to participate actively in the memory. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u15	Senator Paolo Romani, I think you're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u16	The next item is the debate on Document LVII, No 3. The rapporteur, Senator Guerrieri Paleotti, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u17	Madam President, Senators and fellow Senators, in my oral report, I would like to summarize briefly the main content and aims of the DEF, the programmatic document of economics and finance with which the Government - I remind all of us - sets out the ways and times through which our country intends to achieve the objectives of growth and employment, with the constraint of structural consolidation of public finances, according to rules defined in the framework of our legislation and the European Union. I would like to start with a figure, which seems to me absolutely the most important and that is why, for the first time in several years, our economy has the opportunity to resume to grow at a sustained pace and, above all, by this route, to restore the ratio of debt stock to GDP, which has grown enormously in these years of crisis, on a path that is finally descending. This expansionary cyclical phase began at the end of last year and we are somehow seeing that in these weeks it is consolidating, for a series of favourable events at European and international level. I would remind you, although it is well known to all, that the launch of the European Central Bank's unconventional monetary policy, which has already led to a sharp depreciation of the European currency, namely the euro, the large fall in the price of oil - a real collapse could be said - and the increase in world demand, because growth has continued outside Europe in recent years. This has led to an increase in exports, especially net exports, i.e., taking into account also imports. This is therefore a first positive sign of modest but significant economic recovery. In this regard, we must immediately add that the document of economy and finance, already starting from the second part of the year, but above all from next year, proposes a growth that can be consolidated and strengthened, not so much in relation to exports and therefore to the most favourable international context, but above all because it aims at strengthening the domestic factors of growth, that is, the increase in consumption and investment, which in some way are obviously linked to the more general context, but are linked to the possibility of implementing the policies that are envisaged and above all to implement that plan of structural changes, which, as we know, is the great challenge facing us. It is then based on these developments (start of recovery thanks to a favourable international environment, but consolidation of recovery and growth thanks to domestic factors) that is expected in the DEF, starting this year, a first positive sign of modest recovery (0.7 per cent). Therefore, it is a very cautious fact - it has been said several times - even in the light of the forecasts of other Italian and international bodies. What is more important, however, is that it is expected, in 2016 and 2017, to consolidate this growth dynamic, which is expected to increase to 1.4% next year, to reach 1.5% in 2017. Of course, these growth rates will have a positive impact on the labour market and employment gradually, because this is always the case in the context of a recovery of an economy that has been mainly prostrated by years of crisis. However, as early as next year, it is possible to imagine an increase in employment, on average, over the three-year period, of 0.7%, suggesting that the unemployment rate, on the basis of the measures currently envisaged, could fall to around 10.9% at the end of the programming period. Therefore, I would say that the Document that we discuss and must approve suggests a kind of virtuous interaction (of course all to be achieved, but drawn in this way) in which, on the momentum of what is happening, there is in some way the possibility of consolidating the recovery of domestic demand, creating a climate more favourable to reforms (without recovery and growth, in fact, the reforms are not able to produce incisive effects) and, starting from the end of this year and even more in the next year, imagine this internal engine of economic growth. What is the key variable of this virtuous interaction? Of course investment: the recovery of investment is the key objective to be pursued, because - we know - investments have this ability to support demand and, therefore, what counts for the purpose of the possibility that companies return to invest, but they are also able to stimulate the ability to produce and, therefore, to grow an economy; but above all, they are able to stimulate what is called the potential growth of our country, which in these years of crisis has clearly diminished. Now, for these conditions of return on investment to be determined, it will of course be very important to take the measures contained in the measure. In this respect, I would like to stress one thing above all: it is necessary to restore the conditions of the credit markets that are able to bring back to the real economy and to the enterprises those flows of intermediation that in recent years, however, have been severely penalized. To this end, it is very important - and this is mentioned in the DEF in some way - that the measures to dispose of the more than €180 billion of so-called deteriorated loans in banks' portfolios be launched as soon as possible. This is for two reasons: firstly, because, of course, without this disposal, the possibility of restoring an adequate flow of intermediates will be very difficult, but above all because the non-conventional monetary policies of the European Central Bank, in order to then have effects on the real economy, must rely on a banking system capable of transmitting these purchases. These intervention measures are therefore of great importance. Growth, of course, is in itself important for employment, for production, but also for the development of public finance, because in the DEF forecasts it is highlighted what can be a path of progressive improvement of public accounts, which will lead to an improvement of net debt that can fall from 2.5% in 2015, to 1.4 in next year until 0.2 in 2017. In this perspective, in the DEF the government indicates the will to use these spaces of improvement not to be able to devote them entirely to the consolidation of public finance, but to be able to consolidate those domestic factors and therefore the growth of the entire economy. I would like to stress that there is a discontinuity in economic policy which is drawn from previous strategies; a discontinuity which, of course, is also permitted by heavy adjustments, as we know, made in subsequent years. In fact, what the Government envisages is to put the objectives of growth and employment at the centre of the economic policy function, and to look at public finance as a constraint of the economic policy strategy and no longer as the objective of the policy itself. In light of this, the Government envisages in the DEF the possibility of using and allocating to support growth part of those resources that derive from positive budgetary results and that can be identified through the difference between so-called trend trends, given policies, and programmatic trends, that is to say the dynamic one that manifests itself precisely when all the measures and interventions that are envisaged are realized. Using above all the flexibility margins allowed by the European rules for States that are making significant structural reforms, what is expected from the planning plan is to leave debt at the levels outlined in last year's FED Update Note, thus gaining margins that can be used to support the recovery. These margins are 0.1 percentage points this year, 0.4 next year and 0.6 in 2017. Using these margins means exercising an expansionary action of equal value, because in this year's Document, unlike those of previous years, the values of the so-called fiscal multipliers, traditionally counted as a half point (0.5), the incidence or link between GDP and the balance, which have been brought to about the unit, have finally been updated. We are still in a cautious revision, because - as we know - bodies such as the Monetary Fund and how the OECD envisages much higher values. However, this is an important fact, because it means that the expansionary action - an expansionary policy in 2016 - will somehow, over the last year, reach €9.2 billion. This means that the path of improvement of the structural balance, which we remember to be fundamental for the purposes of our legislation on balanced budgets and European rules, would still be achieved from 2017. I would like to highlight another fact from the DEF: the pursuit of the reduction of the tax burden. There have been many considerations on this point, including in the hearings. Of course you can't take the programmatic data for some things and the trend data for others. When you look at the tax burden, you have to consider what you intend to do through the measures. Well, if we look at the programmatic goal, we notice that the tax pressure is assumed to go from 43.1% in 2014 to 42.9 in 2015, to decrease gradually until 41.6 in 2019. This naturally leads to a substantial reduction in relation to trend, for two fundamental reasons. First of all, because the possibility of not triggering the safeguard clauses on the increase in VAT and excise duties is hypothesized; and then - as we know - because the provision of the bonus of 80 euros is somehow recognized not as simple, however important, more expenditure on social benefits, but as a lower tax burden on income from employees. This is important and will be achieved when the safeguard clauses are averted. We know that the DEF envisages substantial action, because we are talking about 1% of GDP (i.e. above 16 billion), which should in some way be achieved by 0.4 points using the improvement in the economic performance of the macroeconomic framework and 0.6 points by means of expenditure review measures, which are, of course, somewhat outlined in the DEF, but which will then be outlined in detail, as regards individual measures, in the Stability Act. One last fact that I think it is important to stress is that in this context debt, the debt stock, will somehow, once this year's increase is discounted, come to decrease in relation to GDP in 2016, 2017 and 2018, so that it can somehow reach a level that for 2018 is estimated at around 120 percent. This is a considerable adjustment, which leads to a reduction of about 190 billion in the debt stock; it is important, because it will allow us to respect the debt rule, which is a fundamental rule of fiscal compact: we can be fully within what this rule prescribes. I would like to refer to the written report, which I would like to add to today's report, concerning the comments relating to Section II, in which, in addition to the trend forecasts of public administration accounts, the main areas of expenditure, as well as resources for the development of under-utilised areas and additional national funds, are also included. In Section III, however, it is contained - I would like to remind you - the set of measures that form the so-called National Reform Programme: these are structural reforms that, in this construction of macroeconomic policies and structural interventions, in some way represent a fundamental junction, because they are the condition for increasing the country's competitiveness and growth capacity. This year's National DEF Reform Programme is somewhat consistent with the stability programme and outlines a series of measures to be taken and reforms to be implemented - partly initiated, partly to be accelerated - which are then part of the European growth strategy so-called Europe 2020. Of course, I do not want to go too far in making a long list of measures here, not least because the time available to me is running out; I merely recall how these reforms, precisely in the light of the possibility of consolidating recovery through domestic factors, represent a fundamental factor in economic policy, but above all they are the lever with which we can continue to use those more favourable adjustment conditions at European level in terms of time that are linked to the exercise of new flexibility. It may seem unnecessary to recall - but it must be done - that some actions have been carried out (I am thinking of labour market interventions, education, banking governance), but much remains to be done and in many areas progress has been too limited. It is important to remember this because this is a commitment of the Government, as well as of the Parliament, to the implementation of those reforms that are fundamental to increase the productivity and potential income of the country. Let us remember that actual income is important, but that if the ability to produce potential income does not grow, the actual income then finds limits. We must therefore move on both tracks and this is possible with macroeconomic policies on the one hand and structural changes on the other. I would like to conclude by recalling that this DEF is part of this perspective and that for the first time, after several years, our economy has the opportunity to resume to grow at a sustained pace and, above all, to be able to somehow produce an adjustment of finance and public accounts with measures strongly focused on growth. It is pointless to deny that much will naturally also depend on the policies that will take place in Europe and we must continue to demand that Europe, in addition to what has already been done, intervene much more in terms of relaunching the growth of the euro area and the European area as a whole. However, our choices as a country remain very important. I have tried to explain in this brief report the interventions outlined in the DEF and which want to support the opportunity of this economic recovery, using fully the spaces of public finance, in order to strengthen and expand, but continuing to ensure the consolidation of our public finances. They are measures that can help our country to seize this opportunity for growth that, in many ways, is unique in the ways it stands out. This is an opportunity that we cannot fail to grasp. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u18	Senator Guerrieri Paleotti, the Presidency authorizes you to attach the written text of the report to the Report of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u19	I would like to ask the minority rapporteur, Senator Bulgarelli, whether she intends to carry out the oral report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u20	Madam President, I do not intend to carry out the report and I would ask you to attach the written text to the report of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u21	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u24	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, since the minority report has been handed over, I would ask you to have a copy of it because we have listened with interest to the majority report and we would also like to see the minority report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u25	Of course, Senator D'Alì. I would remind you that the timing for the debate has been divided between the groups as set out in the Conference of the Leaders. Motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will focus on energy costs: in fact, a significant part of the DEF and its PNR (National Reform Programme) is devoted to energy. Particular attention is paid to the provisions for the reduction of this cost for small and medium-sized enterprises, which is historically a disadvantage for Italian companies. In the PNR account is taken of the intervention taken a few months ago by the Government with the so-called "cut bill" with the objective: to reduce the cost of electricity for SMEs by 10%. Consequently, the Energy Authority has decided to reduce electricity tariffs for customers with a power of more than 16,5 kW. However, the implementation of these measures has not achieved the expected results, I repeat, it has not achieved the expected results, but a reduction of only 3% of the electricity bill. A result that will now be aggravated further by a series of actions that the Government intends to put in place, which will determine in fact an increase of the general burdens of system and therefore of the energy. Among the main actions: the agreement with Serbia for the import of high-price renewable energy; the social bonus of the reform of the network tariffs; the increase of the costs of withdrawal of green certificates; the realization of electricity interconnections with other States; the increase of the burdens in the field of nuclear safety. They are in total about a couple of billion euros per year more, which will therefore weigh on the electricity bill. So, Mr President, the reforms are not enough to announce them or even to approve them: they must be implemented! These increases will prejudice the growth estimates contained in the DEF and the expected cost reduction. The government, however, does not want to intervene where it should, on the pockets of wealth of the big companies and utilities. In fact, in the PNR it is not considered at all that the price of electricity has been strongly lowered in the electricity exchange for years. It is paradoxical that to a substantial reduction of the PUN (the wholesale price to understand us), does not correspond a consequent reduction of the cost of the energy, realizing a detachment that continues and that is to say the embarrassing, for the government of course. In the PNR, there are also no measures for the rebalancing in the electricity system of the payment of charges between the different types of customers: low voltage users of small traders or small craft businesses, representing 25% of the total consumption, are burdened by 35% of the total revenue from the general charges. On the other hand, customers in high and very high voltage - that is, companies with high consumption - consume 15% but contribute only 7.5 percent. To this must be added new incentives for reducing excise duties for energy companies, described as rationalization actions. Instead, the only rationalization would be to facilitate energy efficiency interventions, so that companies reduce their consumption structurally, rather than forcefully reducing the price by charging others. Turning instead to the energy bill of ordinary citizens, here comes the repeal of the protected market for millions of citizens and the reform of electricity tariffs. Both, unlike the Government's announcement, will lead to an increase in the cost of electricity bills. The costs of the protected market reform will be increased by small businesses and by about 9 million citizens, whose electricity and gas bill will grow by about 20%. Then punish families, distributed generation, energy saving, favor the big energy traders. So, colleagues in the majority, you can safely say that you also held the position in the DEF: confirm the fossil line dictated by the government. I spoke of energy, but leave me only ten seconds to remember that yesterday we discussed the deaths in the Mediterranean: words, words, words. But who knows how many misfortunes we will see! Surely we will see as long as there are wars and therefore the leaks will continue, and most of the wars are linked to the imposition of energy, oil and gas sources. Wars and deaths that therefore we all have on our conscience. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u27	She is registered to speak Senator Zanoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after a very serious and prolonged crisis, in the last quarter of 2014, the Italian economy emerged from the recession in line with what was attested in the 2014 Update Note. So begins the 2015 Economy and Finance Document, and so I want to start my speech, with a positive note. During 2014, political economy interventions were aimed at relaunching the economy through actions aimed at supporting labour income, reducing the tax burden and completing the backward commercial payments of public administrations. Despite the continuing cyclical weakness and in spite of further contractions in GDP, the Government has managed to ensure a balance of public finances and compliance with European commitments. Net debt in 2014 remained within the 3% of GDP threshold, the primary surplus continues to be among the highest in the euro area and the passive interest expenditure continues the downward trend. The Italian economy has entered a recovery phase, marked in perspective by fairly favourable dynamics of foreign trade and a gradual stabilisation of domestic demand. The objectives of the government's budgetary policy are briefly three: to support economic recovery; to start public debt on a reduction path; to promote investment and initiatives to allow a decisive recovery of employment over the next three years. All this within a DEF that draws a clear change of march in the economic and financial situation of the Country, with the gross domestic product that in 2015 becomes positive (plus 0.7%). After three years of recession, the DEF sets an economic policy to support more sustained growth over the next three years. In full compliance with the European Regulations, the macroeconomic forecasts of the DEF are subject to the validation of the Parliamentary Budget Office, which validated the trend macroeconomic scenario. I refer only to two aspects highlighted by the Budget Office. As part of its role, the EPB calls for caution on the intention to use fully the room for manoeuvre created by the improvement of the macroeconomic framework and interest rates. In terms of GDP, comparing the policy objectives with the trend forecast, this is a 0.1 in 2015. According to the Parliamentary Bureau of the Budget, of which I quote, a decision taken in April to spend in the current year the effect of improving the macroeconomic framework compared to the forecast of the previous autumn, without waiting before this improvement takes place, seems to be contrary to considerations of prudence. It can be shared but, in this way - I stress - the positive multiplier effect of the application has not been grasped since April. The second aspect highlighted by the UPB is that on the margins of uncertainty that always cover the forecasts of the future, the estimates of the Government appear consistent with those of the forecasts of the panel of the UPB itself and I believe that this is an extremely positive aspect. Having said that, I would like to briefly focus on three aspects: the economic conditions of families and poverty, the situation of local authorities with the prospect of a review of local taxation, and finally I would like to make a few comments on investment. As regards the situation of families and poverty, one of the DEF chapters addresses precisely the national targets of the EU 2020 strategy. Objective 8 is to combat poverty with the aim, at national level, of subtracting 2.2 million people from poverty or deprivation by 2020. Unfortunately, we start from an alarming figure: the synthetic indicator of poverty or exclusion shows in Italy a value of 28.4% higher than the European average, both in the 17 euro area countries and in the Union of 27. As we can see from the ISTAT data highlighted in the hearing of President Alleva, the indicator of serious material deprivation has grown by 6.9% in 2010 to 14.5 percent in 2012; fortunately, in the last two years it has gradually decreased, in 2014, to 11.4%. Attention, however, this positive figure is partly linked to an inflationary dynamic more favorable than that of the previous years and, I add, certainly not for the social expenditure of the Municipalities that, always according to ISTAT, is in decrease from 2011: compared to 2010, when it has reached the maximum of 7.12 billion, there is a reduction of as many as four percentage points. This decline reflects the difficulties faced by the municipalities in recent years, although it should be stressed that the sources of funding for social expenditure of the municipalities come from as much as 70% of their own resources or others and only 10% from the indistinct social policy fund. This must be a priority objective, not because Europe is asking us to do so, but because such a large social gap is unacceptable to our country. At the hearing, I asked ISTAT, who accepted very willingly, to provide us with the cognitive data broken down on the phenomenon, also in relation to the gender differences that affect it. The number of poor women, with young children, or older women, is increasing. As with employment data, gender analysis will help us make better decisions for the whole country. Turning to the second point, the DEF envisages the revision of the tax levy with the aim of moving towards a stable and simplified structure. It is expected to switch to a local tax, which will unify IMU and TASI and simplify the number of taxes, taxes, and municipal fees. I hope that this will be an opportunity for an assessment of the application of federalism on the institutional and fiscal autonomy of local authorities, together with the reform of the land register, planned over the next five years, which will make a significant contribution to the application of local taxes. However, I urge the Government to speed up the process: the DEF plans to launch the reform of local taxation before the end of 2015. This means that between June and July we must have a draft on which to discuss and share in the State-Autonomous Conference; for September, or at the latest in October, we must have certain indications to give to the municipalities so that they can proceed to the preparation of the forecast budgets by December 2015. To take decisively the direction of simplification, of certain rules and of equal institutional dignity would be a good signal to the local autonomy brought to its knees in recent years by cuts and constraints that are leading to default many institutions, by an excess of messy legislation (we remember for all events of the agricultural IMU), by the impossibility of the agencies to plan. Return to the documents delivered by ANCI, UPI and Regions during the hearing, as well as to the intervention of Senator Fornaro, who after me will address the topic, and who highlight that not only the State no longer gives transfers, but it is the Municipalities that contribute more than 600 million to the Solidarity Fund, and that the cuts on Provinces and Metropolitan Cities for 2016-2017 are clearly wrong, so much so as to circulate the absurd proposal not to make the multi-annual budget. The problem is not maintaining or abolishing the Provinces, but those who carry out fundamental functions and those who do not and with what resources. In the metropolitan cities the speech is even more complex, since they are agencies that should take off, and I refer to a document that PD senators are defining on the subject. I am confident that the decree on upcoming local authorities, as the Government agreed in the State-City Conference, will address and resolve a substantial part of the problems highlighted by ANCI, UPI and Regions at the hearing. It is clear that 2015 is still a year of transition, but we must work to ensure that 2016 is a year in which a virtuous circle begins, in which the municipalities can face with certainty of rules the drawing up of the forecast balance by December of the previous year. If we could create a hashtag, we could call it "we'll do it fast." [[Applause from Senator Santini.]] Finally, a reference to investment. It has been said that the Government, in order to ensure growth and development, will stimulate domestic demand and public and private investment. Well, we're working in the right direction, we're releasing resources as soon as possible and we accept the ANCI's invitation to be courageous and to continue in this direction, but we need certain rules, simple and transparent, seriousness, rigour and control in the realization of the works. Positive is the ability to identify a strategic list of works; the first objective is to find resources, to do contracts, to open yards, but we must also learn to close them soon, respecting the times, so that they themselves are the flyers of our activity. In conclusion, I would like to start again from the beginning of my speech. We have a special window of opportunity to resume to grow at a sustained pace and place the debt-to-GDP ratio on a descending path. We absolutely cannot afford to waste it, the Government supports it, we strongly support it. Our country has all the cards in order to be in Europe, guaranteeing our citizens and ourselves, who have lived for seventy years in peace, a good quality of life. And I stress this aspect of peace: we must be grateful to those who have lost their lives for us to guarantee us seventy years of peace and who have brought us to this point. To hope and good wishes the DEF gives good legs and with this spirit we will support him firmly, because the goals are achieved only if we all work for their achievement. It won't be easy. The signs of growth must be supported, the reform process requires maturity and sharing, the system of local autonomy must be supported. Everyone has to do their part. We're gonna make it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u29	We greet the students and students of the Institute of Higher Secondary Education (Des Ambrois) in Turin. Welcome to the Senate [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u30	Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u31	Madam President, after listening to Senator Zanoni, who surely lives in another country or has seen another film, in the few minutes at my disposal I would like to focus on what I think is particularly innovative in this DEF. I am referring in particular to the annex with regard to strategic infrastructure. In this regard, there is something new that I believe is important and also acceptable: that of finally eliminating that objective law that over the years has transformed into the book of dreams and from this point of view would certainly be fine, but alas, as always happens with this Government, beyond the proclamations, the facts in substance - and we will go to analyze it together - are diametrically opposed. The government has identified as strategic infrastructure 25 works, with a selection criterion that is based on an assessment of consistency with the integration with the European territorial networks - and we would miss - with the state of progress of these works - and we would miss it - and with the possibility, as far as financial resources are concerned, that there is a prevalence of financing with private capital. I would have added: "the sharing of territories when they go to tax themselves in order to be able to realize works that the State should realize". It happened in this country. So far, everything would be fine, but there are some passages that we can't quite understand. First of all, works have been removed which, in fact, are supported by programme agreements signed. There is a contract signed by the Ministry and the Government (or by governments that have succeeded each other in recent years) together with the Regions, Provinces and local authorities concerned. We no longer have these works within this document and wonder where they have ended up. What will happen to these works? There is no document telling us where these works are. That worries us a lot. The Government writes that, as far as these works are concerned, there will be an in-depth comparison with the Regions when defining the DEF Update Note in September 2015. What are we talking about? Do we want to ask the regions whether the programmes and contracts entered into, together with the budgets approved in their respective Councils, are valid or no longer valid? That sounds crazy to me. You decide whether certain works should be done or should no longer be done. The regions have already said what they want to do. There is also a technical problem. If these works are no longer strategic are they still within the objective law? If yes, then will they continue according to procedures that are identified in the objective law or by ordinary procedure? And I'm referring to that ordinary procedure that in our country created the conditions for not doing the works. That is why the objective law was born. I wonder what it will do from Monday morning who will have to comply with all the procedures for issuing permits and to do the Conferences of the services. I wonder what will happen to the Ministry and who will take responsibility. This seems to me to be a disturbing and confusing fact. The works identified are certainly good, but I ask myself a question about the economic allocation made available for these works; in fact, they have scraped everything and made themselves available for some money to finance these works which, in September, will have to have additional funding (and here it seems that this has been identified in the structural funds of the European Union). We wonder where we are going to get the money in September for the works I mentioned earlier, which are actually already funded. In addition, I am also referring to my colleagues who, quite rightly, have spoken in the Commission, demanding rapid intervention from the Government in certain parts of the country where there are broken roads, collapsed bridges and where the regional road is affected in its entirety. These works, which have never been included within the objective law among strategic infrastructures, will probably have to be analysed, implemented and financed. Where are we going to get the money? Therefore, I say to my colleagues in the Mezzogiorno who have made these requests: do not be fooled; in September you will see absolutely nothing. The proof that I am not telling nonsense is the fact that the Prime Minister, while risking controversy regarding the identification of strategic works, has included among the 25 works the tram of Florence. Since Renzi is not an unwise man, he is intelligent enough to know that it was more logical, from the political point of view, to insert it in September; he would certainly have had less problems. But it is already aware that in September there will be an assault on diligence and everyone will get rid of it. There will be a bloodbath as far as finding resources is concerned and this government's intention will be exposed here. We believe that in September we will still find a list of the book of dreams - the same thing - and in fact nothing will have changed. In conclusion, do not deny yourself: say of the things that could certainly be shared in their system, but before the evidence of the facts, in the realization of these works, in the end nothing has changed at all. I could go on because I didn't talk about railways and broadband; there's something to talk about for a whole day. There's nothing new. So, it sounds like an electoral ad, something out in the air, which absolutely doesn't give us anything new. In fact, against a process of renewal that you say you do, we even take three steps back and we will see some beautiful ones. We'll talk about it in September if we get there. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u32	Senator Moscardelli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u33	Madam President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in this DEF how many numbers, figures, percentages and tables we can quote to address this important issue that we are debating in this House and how many macroeconomic variables can influence our speech in one way rather than another. Many are the numbers that we can recall in our interventions to support and criticize what the Government has said within the DEF. Even on the same number or table we can make different judgments. However, this document of economy and finance, as has also been pointed out in the rapporteur's speech, has a fundamental point: it refers not only to macroeconomic data that derive from a series of favourable external links, but also to some measures that the Government has put in place and which apply not only to the support of the recovery on the side of lowering the tax burden on companies, support for low average incomes and so on, but also to a whole series of reforms that are taking place. Let us consider the implementation of the delegation for tax reform, labour market reform and reforms on public administration, school, justice and the revision of the procurement code. This is a fundamental element because through this DEF we must bear in mind the external favorable elements and the elements that the Government, through the action of these fifteen months, has managed to put in place and the first signs of recovery and stimulus to the economy that begin to have effect. Moreover, for the first time in time, international observers are re-evaluating Italy's position, not only in 2015, but above all in 2016, 2017 and 2018, that is for the coming years. The performance of the Italian economy today can show all the indicators to go above the European average of growth. Until now and for many years we have been the country, before the recession, with zero growth. We are the country that has not made reforms, that has not modernised, that has lost competitiveness in many sectors and with the recession we have addressed the topic of how to be able to stimulate our economy for a recovery that has always been evaluated with possibilities below the European average and certainly not among the leading countries. Today, for the first time, with the reform programme in the field, international observers consider instead the multiplier effect in terms of the development and economic growth of the reform programme that is being carried out. The Document estimates a growth of 0.7% in 2015 and of 1.4% and 1.5% respectively in the following two years, confirming in fact the end of the recession and the beginning of a recovery season. The first data for the first quarter of 2015 confirm this forecast, a sign that what was put in place in 2014 has taken the goal, not only to curb the recession, but also to start the recovery. The signs of recovery are not lacking and they are true signals. The most important is the collapse of the hours of cash integration between the two months January-February of this year and the corresponding period of 2014, which decreased by more than 41 percent. There are also employment data, in which the explosion of the conversion rate of fixed-term contracts is the first effect of combined measures on the lowering of labour costs, with the deductibility of this cost from the IRAP tax base, and on decontribution. This is an important element, which has been underestimated, in order to be covered by the rain of criticism that there is no significant increase in jobs, but we know that this increase is the result of sustained growth and that above all it has a continuity, while the first objective has been immediately achieved. In addition, the transformation of fixed-term contracts into fixed-term contracts triggers a number of elements supporting domestic demand, as well as social cohesion, for the opportunities it offers. With the next law of establishment we will have to try to make support for decontribution more lasting in the initial phase. In addition, there are February data on consumer and business confidence, from which there is a clear advance of optimism compared to the pessimistic ones, a given that refers to expectations, but we all know how these play a crucial role in economic recovery today. We have also seen, for example, that some measures, such as income support, since they did not take place in a context of positive expectation, have achieved the important effect of supporting families, giving aid in terms of social cohesion, but have mainly affected the indicator of the reconstruction of the savings stock, given that the saving average has resumed to grow and to come closer to the historical average, after having fallen sharply during the years of the crisis. Despite the objectivity of the data mentioned and not present in the daily public debate, I am sure that inside our mind the idea is made, in the interpretation of economic data, that they are not the result of government action, but of various external elements, such as quantitative easing and expansionary monetary policy. But we all know what the limits of a monetary policy are, which can create the right conditions, but the abundance of credit, which we will have from here on in the real economy, because the portfolio of banks has been freed from the purchase of government bonds, is a measure whose effects will have to be measured... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator Moscardelli. Mr Moscardelli (PD). Above all, this is happening and can take place in a context of recovery and real confidence in the economy. I leave out some of the issues that I wanted to address, because the time available is limited. I believe that, in the light of the conservative estimate made in this DEF, which is the average of what the indicators show, the fact that many measures are encrypted "zero" and that the signs of recovery are starting to have a more sustained effect, with the Update Note to the DEF we can really have an element of support and strength for further growth policies, especially in terms of investment, which are a key element and engine. I think about the objective law, with its 400 priority actions, tens of billions of euros spent on design and only 8% of the works carried out, criticism is ungenerous. Moreover, the objective law intervenes more on the phase of planning than on the phase of the procedures: instead it will be important the reform of the code of the contracts, because it will allow to give more effectiveness to the investments on infrastructures. Another fundamental element is played on the investment side of the capital goods of our companies. They have received resources through the cutting of the IRAP and therefore we must encourage them to invest on the capital goods, because the average age of the capital goods of the companies is high and this impoverishes our productive ability. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator Moscardelli. Mr Moscardelli (PD). From this point of view - I shall conclude, Madam President - with further support, with a firm push that goes beyond the measures of the Sabatini law and with an imposing investment of some billions of euros, which can now be recovered through our budget, we could support a strong recovery, especially by working on the competitiveness and productive capacity of our companies. [[Applause from Senator Santini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-Minister, I too am speaking on the Economic and Financial Document, which is the main instrument with which the Government declines the objectives of growth and development in this country. Yesterday, in Commission 7a, however, we found that - in my opinion - it is a serious, very serious deficiency of the document of economy and finance: I refer, basically, to the lack of programming of a public investment in the field of universities, research and development. I say this because, by analyzing the pages of the DEF, as we have been presented, and especially the National Reform Programme, the actions that are indicated there rightly rely on the evaluation and on the increase of the effectiveness and efficiency of public funding in the field of universities and public research bodies. However, they ignore the fact that such an evaluation work cannot be carried out effectively unless universities and institutions are first put in a position to actually carry out their research activities. This has not been the case since, in recent years, there have been a number of cuts in the ordinary operating funds of both universities and institutions. As a result of this, we find on page 72 of Tomo I of the DEF, a table that summarises investments in human capital and innovation, in which the additional allocation for school is reported (e.g. EUR 1,500 million are mentioned, in respect of 2015,). There is, therefore, the billion of the plan for good school, which is of course meritorious, even if it is questionable how it is used - this, however, is of course another story - which is taken away, only a few coins remain. It is true that there are also the European Structural Funds, which are mentioned in the Economic and Financial Document, and there is, in particular, the thematic objective 1, which concerns research and development and where the figure of EUR 3 billion is quoted in seven years. I must point out, however, that, in reality, public co-financing is necessary for these funds, and above all, I should like to stress that the structural funds have the precise aim of transferring knowledge of research to the economic and industrial sectors. I wonder something. In order to be able to be properly completed, Structural Fund interventions need a national substratum which must be financed exclusively from national public funds, so as to have that network of knowledge, made by universities and public bodies, which allows the same funds to be used. But how can we aim to transfer researchers to small and medium-sized enterprises when we, Madam President and Deputy Minister, do not even have researchers? We have only 3 researchers per 1,000 inhabitants, that is less than half of most other European countries. Therefore, it is clear that, even in order to achieve the objective of European funding, a national public appropriation should be provided not based on Community funds, which puts universities and public research bodies at risk. In this regard, I also point out that the National Research Plan, which is a fundamental tool for strategic planning of research activities in Italy, has not yet seen the light. It was announced last Friday to the Council of Ministers, but we still do not have it at our disposal. So why promulgate a National Research Plan after launching the DEF? Why, instead, as a good practice - and this I suggest to the government - do not reverse the role? First, the National Research Plan is adopted, where all the appropriations of the related programmes are identified, among others, and then the Economic and Financial Document is linked to it, so as to provide for all the appropriate appropriations. But that's not how it is. We talk of 6 billion until 2016 in the national plan for research but there is no trace in the Document of economy and finance. And so, I have to assume that all this money in the plan is fake. Let's reverse the order: let's give the national research plan the right priority, which is really a strategic document; let's put programming in the DEF in terms of human capital investment ratio compared to GDP. It is not enough just to talk about the debt-to-GDP ratio. We also make projections for each year of this fundamental parameter: the relationship between research and development and GDP.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u36	Senator, you have to finish. BOCCHINO (Misto-ILC). I shall conclude, Mr President. We decline the objectives, so we have clear for every year what is the government's strategy in this field. In conclusion, they are merely meaningless numbers, which will not help to achieve the development objective that the Government itself has set itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u37	[[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Baptist]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u38	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, every time we discuss the DEF there is a lot to say and there are many comments I would like to make on several fronts. Time, however, is limited and I want to focus the few minutes available on health care, which is always too much confined to the margins, perhaps forgetting that it concerns everyone instead. We are always talking about health care in a confused way. Some of the issues are discussed only among those involved and citizens are always too little involved. Or we are talking about it in the context of economic documents, such as the one we are discussing, to discover for the umpteenth time what is now the only certainty when it comes to health: the cuts. The only economic, clear and concrete measures included in the DEF for health care are expenditure containment measures. The health fund is reduced from 112 billion in the Health Pact to 109.7 billion in the 2015 DEF. It also reduces that of 2016, which goes from almost 115.5 billion of the Health Pact to 113 of the DEF. As of 2015 there are, therefore, cuts of more than €2.3 billion to the health fund, plus 285 million less for health building, already decided in the State-Regions agreement of 26 February. Ultimately, there are 2.637 billion less for health care in 2015. All this happens while on the web, in the newspapers and in the television programs there is the debate about the fantastic 1.6 billion treasure, of which we all want to hope a good use is made, but there is the suspicion that it can be a weapon of mass distraction. I'd like to know exactly where this will end up and how this little treasure will be used. I hope it is not at the expense of health and welfare. I ask another question: the resources derived from these cuts that they will make up? The Health Pact has a very clear forecast: health savings must be used for health purposes. Will this rule be respected or is it the umpteenth prediction that leaves the time it finds? But, above all, where is that reformist momentum, that vision of the future, that change of pace, that change that would be necessary all the more in an area as important as health? Health continues to be considered only as a sector of public expenditure. More than ever before, however, a different approach is needed to recognise, on the one hand, that health is a factor of economic, employment and technological growth; on the other hand, it complements and sometimes fills up public health services. Gentlemen, a new technological and industrial revolution has emerged in the world and the interaction between digital technology, processes and production extends its effects also to the health and welfare sectors. The digitalisation of health processes is a fundamental step, in order to make the cost-quality ratio of health services more efficient; to control health expenditure and to limit waste and inefficiencies, to reduce imbalances and inequalities at regional and territorial level; to promote the development of the entire health chain and to improve the provision of those services with immediate impact on citizens. The current innovations in the health sector must be implemented, both on the computerization front in general (i.e. the electronic health file, the electronic medical record, the electronic recipe, the centralized storage of medical reports - let's think about how much we spend on rents for paper files that are punctually lost and never reused - for home teleassistance), and in particular as regards the dissemination of telemedicine (through remote remote monitoring and teleassistance). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Fucksia. FUCKSIA (M5S). The development of human capital is of strategic importance. Technological developments require retraining and a training strategy for new professional figures. What does the government want to do? What are the strategies on this issue? What concrete action does the Government plan to take? The general statements of the DEF are expected to be developed and implemented as soon as possible. What does the government think about the reorganisation of the supervised entities? What do you think about those resources that are still missing and not planned to renew the employment contract for the many doctors and health professionals in the public sector? There is no prospect of saving expenditure on the basis of a revision of Title V of Part Two of the Constitution. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Fucksia, please. FUCKSIA (M5S). There is a lack of concrete and targeted actions to support vulnerable, retired and disabled people. From the perspective of the Jubilee, nothing is foreseen for the removal of architectural barriers. I'll finish. The challenge facing us is not to spend less, but to spend better, to avoid losing ground with other countries and thus decree a path of political, social and economic backwardness, which would seriously harm the health of Italian citizens, leading us to really spend much more and without results. [[Applause from Senators Vacciano and Molinari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fornaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u41	Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the DEF contains many issues but, for reasons of time, I will focus solely on the issue of the local government sector. From this point of view, I think it should be pointed out that the municipalities and the local authorities system are halfway through the ford. We can no longer go back to the logic of transfers, and we must have the courage to move forward towards a model of federalism accomplished, which has in its architrave and in its system the standard needs, the standard costs, the standard fiscal capacities. However, the DEF is also an opportunity to give proper recognition to the efforts made in recent years by the local self-government system. I'd like to let the data speak. With regard to municipalities, state transfers increased from 16.1 billion in 2010 to 3.1 billion in 2013, with a decrease of 13 billion. The total available resources (more tax transfers at standard rates) increased from 10.4 billion in 2010 to 16.2 billion in 2013, an increase of 5.8 billion. In essence, the municipalities have seen the resources available to them decrease from 26.5 billion to 19.3 billion, with a decrease, from 2010 to 2013, of 7.2 billion. By also doing justice to the accusation, which is often directed at the mayors, of having simply transformed the missed transfers into higher taxes, the tax effort, i.e. the difference between the rate applied and the standard rate, has increased yes, from 2.9 billion in 2010 to 8.1 billion in 2013, but only 5.2 billion. In other words, this means that the whole sector, combining savings on current expenditure and contribution to the Stability Pact, has seen a reduction in available resources of more than € 4.4 billion. Demonstration of spending cuts also comes from local government system data between 2009 and 2013. Current expenditure in the sector, net of health care, went from 2009 to 2013, from 97.7 billion to 90.1 billion and overall, also taking capital expenditure, from 135.8 to 122.2 with a decrease of 13.6 billion in five years. Then there would also be data on the debt of the public administration, and I quote only one very quickly, to give also the idea of the very significant difference between the effort made by the local government system and the space that still exists on the central government. Public administration debt in central government rose from 1.654 billion in 2009 to 1.960.8 billion in 2013, an increase of 18.5%. In the same period (2009-2013), the debt had a decrease of 11.1% for the Regions, 7.1 for the Provinces and 2.5 for the Municipalities. These are very clear data, confirmed also by the analysis of the Court of Auditors which, in December 2014, highlighted how: The consolidation effort required of territorial administrations with the constraints laid down in the Internal Stability Pact is not proportionate to the size of the resources manageable by them, which has resulted in a drastic reduction in their spending functions, to the benefit of the other administrative sectors that make up the consolidated profit and loss account of public administrations. So there is no more waste, inefficiencies and room for improvement? No, it can't be said and, from this point of view, the goal of the spending review of 10 billion contained in the DEF is very ambitious, but understandable. However, it is not conceivable that this is translated, as has already happened in the past, into new linear cuts towards local authorities and I would like to draw the attention of the Government to this. In fact, in recent years, the logic of the cuts has been linear and today we have many local authorities that no longer have room for manoeuvre, neither in terms of cost containment, nor in terms of increasing the tax burden. It is true that in the DEF there are no punctual cuts towards local authorities, but it should be noted that those produced by the 2015 Stability Act are already unsustainable for many communities. In other words, we have come to a line beyond which there is a real risk of a break in the trust pact between local institutions and the State and, therefore, between citizens and the State. I believe that this must be said forcefully, and I would like the Deputy Minister to listen to me above all on this point which, apart from the various issues, I believe is political. It is urgent, therefore, to intervene with a decree-law on the premises, both on the topic of the resources - as was strongly demanded also from the ANCI during the hearing on the DEF - and on the level of the regulations. There is a particular question about the Provinces and the Metropolitan Cities. The cuts in sequence - one billion in 2015, one billion in 2016 and one billion in 2017 and, therefore, under regime 3 billion - are essentially and technically impossible: to say this is not the UPI, but the SOSE (Solutions for the economic system SpA), which has in fact managed to demonstrate an impossibility of improvement of efficiency for the first year around 650 million, but beyond this it has failed to go. Basically, we have a situation where the new agencies will not be able to leave. Although I think I still have very little time, there is also a question of the agricultural IMU, which must be dealt with in this document. I basically close where I started: it is obvious that we have to go beyond the ford and, therefore, towards a model of federalism, but to this landing place the municipalities - pass me the joke - must arrive alive. They must be given certainty and stability in resources and legislation. From this point of view, the challenge contained in the local tax DEF is ambitious. However - and here I make a formal request to the Government - the timing, as unfortunately demonstrated by the story of the TASI, is not an independent variable with respect to the good functioning and the results that we want to achieve. It is necessary that the TASI plant arrives soon and there is the possibility of confrontation, of giving contributions because the local tax, from this point of view, must look to the coming years and give the certainties that the municipalities require. Finally, it should be remembered that that of the Municipalities is an essential role of garrison of democracy - in this regard, and I refer in particular to the system of small Municipalities - and of keeping the social fabric of our country. The contribution to rehabilitation has been important and today we need to rebuild a climate of trust with regard not only to mayors and local administrators, but also to relations with citizens. [[Applause from the PD and Misto-SEL groups and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u42	Senator Molinari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u43	Madam President, honourable representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with another document of economy and finance aligned with the same ideology as the previous ones. Austerity, among other things, with the famous law of mirrors, is now being sold to us as a strict control of the accounts - and who might be against this - all aimed, however, only at incentives on the expense side. No project is found in this umpteenth Document, whether it is related to an idea of industrial policy or to a research and development plan. Since 2007, the only positive thing we have to admit is found in the documents that we examine, as well as in the 2014 Update Note, is a greater intellectual honesty on statistical data and above all a caution on the forecasts contained in the text. Since 2007 - as I said before - we have lost more than a quarter of our industrial production and between three and four million jobs because of the inertia and the "non-choices" that continue to occur. Among the many things absent, in addition to those that other colleagues have highlighted in the course of the debate, the eternal excluded continues to be the South, which is totally absent from the thoughts of this as of previous governments. However, only on 9 April this House adopted a resolution on the projection of the European Union's policies in the Mediterranean and I, along with other colleagues, hoped that this would represent an opportunity to recover the sense of the communities that insist on the Mediterranean starting, precisely, from our South. But it seems to be a pious illusion: the situation in the Mezzogiorno is tragic, and the data from ISTAT and, above all, the reports from SVIMEZ show this to us. This DEF tells us, among other things, that in 2015 there will be a further cut in public expenditure which, as a percentage of GDP, will be 6.2 for the South, which is more than twice as much as the Centre-North, which will see a decline of 2.9 percent instead. Capital expenditure will also see a decrease of 2.1% for the South against only 0.8% for the Centre-North. Not to mention how the maneuvers of recent years have affected the penalization of the South. From 2001 to 2012, I remember that capital expenditure, Mr. Deputy Minister, on public investment, in fact, fell by 58 percent in the South, while at the Centre-North by only 10 percent. In this context of cut resources, when you do not steal from the South, the historical gap from the rest of the country increases and the theft of the future stands out in an exemplary way to one of the most devastated regions, namely Calabria. From the analysis of the data contained in the DEF 2015, I bring you back and I remind you that, compared with those of 2014, there is a very strong reduction of the strategic infrastructural works, that have passed - as already someone else remembered - from 415 of 2014 to only 30 of 2015, with a contraction of almost 70 percent of the relative investments. And in this context Calabria will pay the highest price, since of the 68 works planned for 2014 only three survived, and we know that, with the fall of that pylon, in practice the Salerno-Reggio Calabria is totally unusable and Calabria is cut off from the rest of Italy. The data, in their crudeness, are ruthless and say a lot about the betrayal towards Calabria also by this Government. It goes from almost 19 billion investments in 2014 to little more than 1.4 billion previewed out of only three works for 2015, with a decrease of 95.6 percent of the number of works and 99.2 percent of the investments. You want to kill Calabria totally! In such a disastrous framework there is no strategic investment of the Italian Railway Network in Calabria. The ANAS provides for a single intervention for 2015 for an amount of only 150,000 euros. We in the South are, apparently, doomed to eternal expectation. Perhaps it is time to imagine a future in which alone we become the creators of our ransom, even if this will lead to a lonely path. I remember Alfano's promises about 800 more police officers to take to Calabria, where the crime problem also becomes a development problem. I also recall the question of subtracting the national co-financing of the European Structural Funds, which the current Minister Delrio, then Undersecretary, had promised to reinvest in Calabria. And we are constantly waiting for these missed promises. Remembering that promises are a source of obligations, until this Government keeps them, I will continue to vote against measures directed only to the preservation of the power of a lying political class and enemy of the South and my Calabria.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u44	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u45	Madam President, for reasons of time, before speaking on the DEF, I would ask you to attach the written text of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u46	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u47	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you. I will therefore speak for the time available to me by the Forza Italia Group. I have listened very carefully to what has been said in this House, but I have also seen with equal attention the interest of the Government and the rapporteurs, both in the majority and in the minority, in listening to what Members say in this House. My reflection may seem almost positive, but it is only sarcastic and aims to emphasize that the inattention of the Government and the rapporteurs, of majority and minority, leads us parliamentarians almost to be depressed about coming to the Chamber and speaking in an attempt to make a contribution without being heard. I am therefore very happy to reflect on myself and my colleagues in this House. Before this debate, however, I would like to make a clarification. DEF means Document of economy and finance for the center-right, for the center-left means document of fiscal economy. [[Applause from the Senator Council]] You know exactly what I mean. Having said that, I return to my reflection. What is the point, ladies and gentlemen, of speaking in this House when there is an illegitimate government representing us? A government that is not elected by the people, a government that does not respect democratic rules, that does not respect parliamentarians, is there a government and a part of Parliament that not only delegitimized this House but the whole country? Today, ladies and gentlemen, and you know perfectly well, there is a debate within the Democratic Party on the opportunity to put trust in the electoral law. Attention, friends, we are discussing the DEF but the inner labor within the PD what is it? Putting trust in the electoral law: then, if the major debate that is taking place today within the majority party is whether to erase the rules of democracy or continue to have a crumb of democracy means that we have come to the end. In other words, there is no more reflection that we need to make, there is no more suggestion that we should make in this House because those who should be a reference point for the country and for the majority of this House have no interest in defending democracy, but other things. However, at first I spoke of illegitimate government. Yes, illegitimate. We have a Renzi who is not voted by anyone, but before him we had a gentleman named Letta and even before him a gentleman named Monti, because this is decided by those who have to destroy, from an economic and financial point of view, our country. When we question the Ministers and the President-in-Office of the Council about why, within the balance sheet of the Bank of Italy, what should be written into the assets of the Bank of Italy is written into liabilities, they tell us: it is now so, we have cheated you since 1992 for EUR 134 billion; we have stolen money from the Italian people and we do not want to return it and since it is a practice, we cannot intervene. Yes, dear friends, I am talking about 134 billion euros that should be in Italy, while in the balance sheet of the Bank of Italy, what should be written into the assets is recorded as liabilities, i.e. you have a balance sheet in liabilities and instead it is in surplus. I have spoken of 134 billion since 1992; it was less then, but in 2011 there were 134 billion (and now a little more) which, multiplied by 20, could allow to repay the public debt and to identify resources for families, small, large and medium-sized enterprises. Dear parliamentarians of the center-left, with the exclusion of someone for whom I have great esteem, most of these characters who are inside the PD cannot explain why such an attitude of unfairness towards the Italian people: do not take a position on the Bank of Italy, do not talk about the division between commercial banks and business banks, do not intervene on the issue of electoral law by saying strongly to their point of reference, to our President-in-Office of the Council, that just talking about trusting the electoral law is a criminal and shameful act. And it is shameful for Renzi to propose it and even more so for Members who will agree to give a vote of confidence on the electoral law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u48	Senator, I invite you to stay on the subject if you can.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u49	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I do not mean to insult my colleagues, my voice is an outlet in this House and a call to democracy which is now becoming more fading, because it is no longer able to have the color it should have and continues to fade day after day. I respect the majority because I am opposed, but my voice - I say it with my heart and my head - leads me to speak in this House to invite Members from the other side of the barricade not to erase the rules of democracy, because by doing so we could get to the abyss, that is to say to a dictatorial system, perhaps veiled, but still dictatorial. I shall conclude, Madam President, to remind all of us that constitutional and Senate reform is a disgrace in all respects. We should have the courage to rebel. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Scilipoti, the time at your disposal is over. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). He could have gotten me done. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She filed the surgery, she did an intervention that wasn't on the subject, and I gave her all the time. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). It's all about it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Filippi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u50	As long as Senator Scilipoti doesn't use my time, too. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-Minister, the macroeconomic signals that are envisaged in the Economic and Financial Document lead us to believe that a new phase for our country too can be opened, a phase that can lead us out of the heavy and persistent crisis of these years. We have the duty, as a majority supporting this Government, to interpret with the necessary protagonism these signs, this new phase, accelerating the process of structural reforms in support of growth. This year the document of economy and finance, and above all its attached infrastructure to which I address essentially my speech, coincides with the exchange at the summit of the Ministry of reference, that is the MIT, as a consequence also of recent judicial events that have seen the highest leaders involved in a supposed system of unacceptable corruption, even if only for hypothesis. It is natural, therefore, that the main document of the planning of investments aimed at realizing the strategic infrastructures for the country is analyzed in backlight, like an X-ray, in order to evaluate them elements of continuity and discontinuity, almost constitutes a litmusol map of the real possibility of change of the Country. Many, in this sense, are the elements of novelty and discontinuity compared to previous editions, as well as many elements of continuity. As far as we are concerned, they are the first to be valued, because on these we must act to determine the necessary and expected change. Many of them are listed in the attached infrastructure as opportunities for real change in the immediate future, in that process of structural reforms. It starts from the imminent delivery of the National Strategic Plan of the portualità and the logistics, that it will constitute the central document for the reform of the harbour order, that the section by now waits from almost three lustres, in order to arrive to the imminent definitive approval, from the Council of the ministers, of the Plan of the airports, with the successive delivery to the Parliament and its consequent operativity in terms of contracts of service and start of the investments. But on all I think of the reform of the code of contracts and contracts that 8a The Senate Commission has begun to examine and is soon considering being able to hand over to the House for approval at first reading. But the document goes far beyond the announcements. This year's attached infrastructure was also the occasion, for the new Minister, for a healthy exercise of realism that the country really needs. I am referring to the vexed question of the selection of priority strategic works, further contracted by half compared to those previously assumed. A more realistic picture emerges - in my opinion still optimistic - and certainly still challenging, with the reality of things. From the previous 51 works we descend, in fact, to less than half and, in these, they are seen as particularly significant those inherent to the so much invoked from us "cure of the iron" that modal rebalancing that looks both to the passengers and to the goods and that is in the main urban and metropolitan nodes, that on the main logistic corridors, is called to realign over time our Country to the European standards of mobility and the logistics in terms of efficiency, innovation and sustainability. It is, as the Minister himself has been hasty to point out after the first - it should be said - not very happy articles in the press, a first stage of approach to the subject, a stage that will benefit from successive reviews starting from the Regions and their Conference. Even for past experiences, we strongly ask that special attention be paid to this very next step. We ask that the consequent agreements of the State-Regions program that will be signed, be this time really necessary program agreements, compared to those of the political season that lies behind us, that they saw a rise in the works compared to the original plan, so as to allow it to be easily consented, but also the impossible realization. Lists of things to do, such as shopping lists, are no longer needed. There is a need for serious programme agreements which set the framework for shared priorities in a logic of the effectiveness of available resources. That's the challenge! To resume a planning policy that extends our eyes to the contingency of the procedures to which the target law had forced us. Select the implementation priorities in certain times and compatible with the framework of available resources. Finally, the theme of the themes from the point of view of the works to be carried out for the country. The private competition in terms of resources for the realization of public works, after years of normative hangover (which we have also competed) on the finance of project and years of impietious crisis, also from the financial point of view in the relationship between companies and banks for the closure of financial closings, give us a bleak realization picture more than disappointing. It is on this level that the real credibility of the new Minister is played, but also of this Government for the actual change of the country. To this challenge of Government we feel to declare all our attention, willingness and loyal support! [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u51	Thank you, Senator Filippi, even for the respect of the times.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u52	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u53	Madam President, first of all I apologize if I do not call you President, as President Boldrini would like, but I like the name of Madam President more.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u54	Madam President, all right, Senator Carraro. The important thing is that you do not call me Mr President, because that would be very wrong.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u55	[[Applause from Senator Ranucci.]] Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to thank the rapporteur and Deputy Minister Morando for their work. The current DEF we are going to vote on this afternoon has an optimistic footprint. I hope that optimism will follow the facts. I hope so for the Italians, for my children, for my niece. Forgive me, though, I have some doubts. First of all, it is not taken into account that we are currently operating in a favourable international context. Let's hope it lasts, but we don't know for sure. I'm alluding to the spread, which is low right now. I refer to the fact that the spread has also been further lowered by the quantitative easing that will last a year and a half, but we do not know how much longer it will continue after this period. There is also a very favourable oil price situation. Unfortunately, this favourable situation has little impact on the Italian consumer because the price of petrol has not decreased so significantly. However, it is a very favourable situation. However, we do not know how long it will last. We do not have any safeguards from this point of view. Last year's tax burden was 43.5%. In the current year it will be 44.1 percent. The tax burden increases and we all know that, if we do not reduce taxes, the chances of the Italian economy recovering are very difficult. In this regard, I must stress that this Government speaks a lot about reforms but, in reality, at the level of the economy it has only done one, which has partially addressed some problems. I'm alluding to the jobs act. Other significant reforms, however, have not done so. Not only that. I would like to say to Parliament that it is precisely the debate these days on public administration that highlights a point relating to the cuts, which are essential to us. Here it is expected that 10 billion will be saved in spending reviews. But in order to save 10 billion (but even one euro) reforms must be made. In the debate yesterday and in recent days on public administration, however, we find out how little we, as a Parliament, are inclined to cut. Actually, with the cut you touch someone's interests and make choices. Every time the government proposes a few choices, the difficulties in making them pass, not only by the opposition, but also by the majority, are very significant. Gentlemen, if we do not change, if the country does not decide to have a leaner state and, therefore, to make sacrifices we will not be able to lower taxes. If we do not manage to lower taxes, it will be difficult to attract international capital. It will be easy for Italian capitals to go abroad. I am happy that FIAT is better, but I am sorry to know that FIAT pays taxes outside of Italy. She's doing it because she wants to. If we do not make it attractive to pay taxes in our country and if we do not attract international capital, the Italian economy will not improve and I fear that this Document we are examining is actually too optimistic. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u56	We greet the students and students of the State High School "Virgilio" in Pozzuoli, in the province of Naples. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u57	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u58	Madam President, I must admit that this Government and a large part of this Parliament have a capacity: to make people believe what they really are not. I have heard in several speeches about jobs act as a reform at work. Of course it is a counter-reform, from my point of view, but what is important is not what I think but what happens in this country. Just ask around and check every day what we happen to attend. Let's talk about Whirlpool, the workers of Auchan and Mercatone One: then I could draw up a list until I get to the last workers of the call center. To be very good, when we talk about this, a replacement of workers will take place, but we want to put all this through reform. God bless us. It's kind of what happens all the time. Working conditions, when work is there, have become unhuman. They want to insert microchips to the workers and then we realize that if they make a joke to the Minister of Labour they are offended. Workers should not feel offended at what they suffer, while the Minister of Labour does. We talk, as I always say, about abstract things that have nothing to do with reality. I am referring to what happens to us in the Commission or to what we learn from newspapers, because politics is what we read in the newspapers. I think about the good school, the idea of wanting to start our boys at work at 14 and then maybe fire them at 15 to 16 years old. I guess progress can be made for our country or what our kids are gonna think about all this. Yet these are the reforms and that is what is included in the DEF, and citizens must think that this is an Economic and Financial Document. We, as the Left Ecology and Freedom, have repeatedly made our proposals which are not of course even taken into account. I am talking, for example, about the extraordinary work plan with public and private investment, but we do not even want to hear about it. We talked about the minimum income that - yes - would give a little dignity to our citizens. Madam President, now in the South, from which I come, there is an unprecedented depopulation and not because our boys - I always say this - move to places where decent work could be guaranteed: they go where they survive, if it suits them, with internships or internships paid six months late, when it's okay, at 500 euros per month. We are talking about this now, this is reality, but reality must not appear and we must talk about anything else. The other day, when we took part in the beautiful commemoration ceremony of the 70th anniversary of the Liberation of Italy in the Chamber of Deputies I heard singing "Bella ciao" and I have to say that I easily get excited whenever I hear that song singing. I say this with deep respect for all those who have sung it, because I know how important it is for those who believe in certain values. It was recalled on that occasion that all workers, from factories to campaigns, have made a great contribution to the freedom and democracy of this country. Let me remind you - I always do this with deep respect, because I am used to speaking only in this way - that today, in the world of work, workers have difficulty even voting to choose who they represent. Always with deep respect, however, the question arises spontaneously: if all the workers have been remembered and if we all believe when we sing "Beautiful hello", we should also commit ourselves to ensuring that the workers are always respected and not only on special occasions. I am very attentive to these things and I have seen several handkerchiefs or scarfs with the inscription "Partisans always": well, sometimes you risk becoming partisans only for an occasion, and this would not be respectful. [[Applause from Senator Paglini]] I wanted to make this thought, Madam President, because we are talking about school and work in the DEF. If we do not pay attention to what I have said, we are in danger of actually crippling democracy. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators Bocchino, Capacchione and Paglini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u59	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u60	Madam President, if the sense of the DEF, said in general and even vulgar terms, is to sell the bear's skin before it has been kicked out, the more so with regard to the education sector. The good school, in fact, announced every hour as the cornerstone of the Premier's reform system, is not only not an approved standard, it is still in the form of a bill but, regardless of the delegations contained in it, it is a mess, from which emerges clear only one vision: that of the school-company. I say that it is a mess, for example, because one of the parameters on which the coverage for this reform should have been based, which now navigates in the thickest fogs, is the number of teachers to be put in place, through the famous extraordinary recruitment plan, provided for in this measure. It is a number that constantly oscillates precisely because of the financial coverage. In fact, there is no realistic quantification of both the number of precarious persons and the chairs that must be covered, and when finally the Ministry, a few days ago tried to give some numbers, the national statistical programme, with an autonomous operation, had to aggregate those data that had broken down, recompose them so that they were readable and tell us, in essence, that the numbers are not those that have been given to us and everything continues to change from hour to hour. The DEF informs us, on page 557, that the "good school" plan has also been referred to as the strategic project of the European Union Task Force and the European Investment Bank. Such an indication of the investment plan submitted by individual national states to the European Investment Bank does not mean that the funds are there and that they are donated to the purpose. So - listen well - it is not certain that the projects will receive the funding provided and, once again, you play with words, indeed with words, masking a void and selling illusions. Let's move on to school building. Despite the emphasis with which its plans had been announced since the beginning of government action, this famous school building plan does not take off. The National Register is already in place in 1996 and there is no medium- and long-term planning, also due to the difficulties of merging funds into a single container to be used in a targeted and rational way. As we know, much of the resources that were devoted to school construction have not actually been spent and, in the meantime, we all know very well that schools are falling. Even in the DEF we are told nothing to comfort us and to reassure us that, finally, the School Building Plan that provided for beautiful schools, new schools and safe schools will finally begin to have some effectiveness. On the problems of the university I will fly planar because, here too, we talk so much about innovation and much about evaluation and rewarding. But, in reality, what emerges is the framework of a university that, if it wants to see funding, always sees them draw from the funds that were already allocated to it. It is, therefore, a university that finances itself. There are few ideas and confused, especially in the short term, to sew the usual patches, instead without a design and a vision of the whole that truly extend a fundamental sector like that of the university and research for a country in crisis, as we are taught foreign countries that, in times of crisis, have increased their investments in the field of research and university. We, on the other hand, always so enlightened and far-sighted, continue to make cuts in times of crisis. In what areas? In those of school, university and scientific research and culture, as if we were living in a country where these three sectors could not be a driving force for the economy. By now, however, we have grown tired of repeating these things, because someone told her before me. I have been repeating them since I entered this Parliament and, together with myself, other colleagues. However, every time we talk about stability or financial law, we continue to see the usual practices of a government that is not enlightened, but guarded. I'm gonna finish. Beyond being a wary government and returning for a moment to the plan of the "good school" we can take it as an example and as a metaphor of a vacuum in which a country is suspended, which, instead of being governed by a President of the Council and a team really interested in developing strategies to get us out of this tunnel, is governed by a gang that puts hand to the Constitution, that makes regulatory mess and that continues not to do what it should do. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u61	Senator Dirindin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u62	Madam President, I would like to speak quickly on the issue of welfare and the attention it gives to this sector in this country and, in particular, with this DEF. In the welfare sector, I would like to focus in particular on health expenditure and the role of health protection policies. The Health Commission has adopted a very detailed opinion, which we trust will be taken into account in the future prospects for documents to be adopted. Compared to those elements that have already been highlighted, I would like to focus on two points in particular which deserve attention, after having made a small premise. I would like to make it clear to everyone that the health sector, in particular public health, has been subject to restrictions in recent years which are far greater than those to which the other sectors of the PA have been subjected. The figure reported by the DEF of the consolidated public administration account tells us that primary expenditure in 2014 grew by 1.2% compared to the previous year, while health expenditure grew by 0.9% less. Above all, in the previous year, primary spending had grown by 1.9 percent, while health spending had fallen by 0.3 percent. I could go back to history, but I do not want to tediate with the numbers; certainly the Deputy Minister knows the problem and knows the serious restrictions to which the health sector has been subjected, which, at a time of serious economic crisis, has to deal, on the one hand, with new needs in quantity and quality - let us remember that unemployment and the economic crisis also create needs in terms of health, to which we are unprepared, and affect social cohesion - on the other hand, the reduction of resources. This does not mean that there are still no areas of intervention to improve the use of the resources we have in the health sector, but what we see a lack of attention is that the sectors that can be attacked through the spending review, to which we attribute the three-quarters of the results that we should achieve with the measures to neutralize the safeguard clause, as the Parliamentary Bureau itself says, have already been attacked at macro level; they have been attacked especially in many of the regions that have the accounts in order, so the savings that were possible have been largely obtained and the spaces for further interventions are not there. A surplus of attention is therefore needed so that there is no risk of duplication of interventions that have already been foreseen in the past and on which monitoring of implementation has not been sufficiently adequate, and especially so that there is no risk of differentiation of interventions on the ground. Having said that, I should like to make two points. Firstly, expenditure on staff. I would like it to be clear that the health sector is labour intensive and cannot continue to see staff spending cut. Over the last year, in this context of restrictions, staff expenditure has been reduced once again by 0.7%. This means depriving a system of the most important productive factor to achieve the goal it has set itself, and the system for health protection is not the icing on the cake that can be optionally taken into account when trying to make reform policies or there is a better alternative possible less expensive. The health sector has a key role to play, especially at this time of crisis. So the first question is personnel. There are constraints, also recognized by the Government as perverse, as results obtained on spending: it is an issue on which we must work. And I come to the conclusion of the second topic. I would like to point out perhaps an oversight of the PNR, because, at the point where there is an action to reorder the supervised health institutions, it is said that the regulatory bodies, the supervisory and research bodies, must be reordered in order to make them more competitive. Now, that supervisory regulators should be made more competitive, I think it is improper; it is probably an oversight, but it must be corrected in the future, because regulators must be third parties; they must be monitored as long as they perform their functions, but they must not be put in competition on the market. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Petraglia]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u63	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u64	Madam President, I would like to say to Deputy Minister Morando that it is certainly not his fault that economic and financial documents are "chatterological" documents. In fact, there is a great economist still alive, who is called Sergio Ricossa, who wrote a beautiful book entitled "Maledetti economisti." The idiocies of a non-existent science, to point out that the forecasts in economics, beyond the great theories that Pareto, Keynes, Friedman and other Nobel Prize winners have carried out, are theories that, like seismographers, have already happened. This is a premise to say that this Document is drawn up with an optimistic vision, because it expects that in the last quarter of 2014 Italy has come out of the recession and forecasts an increase in GDP of even 0.7%, contrary to what has happened in the last three years, in which we have recorded negative increases. Even if it is good to impress on optimism the forecasts, in a country to the economic collapse for a crisis that, as far as I am concerned, I cannot feel as an event now behind our backs and, unfortunately for us, even the Italians do not succeed (however it is a positive fact to be optimistic), there are some considerations to be made. I have already heard that there has been an increase in the rates of postal deposits, but this cannot be interpreted as a positive fact. People keep money because they are afraid of the future and do not spend it because it is vexed by very high taxation. It therefore retains this money for much more serious events and circumstances; hence the collapse of consumption, the foreseeable collapse of production and the incipience of unemployment, which is consequent. Government optimism is essentially based on three points. Firstly, the fact that the European Central Bank is placing an additional EUR 1,000 billion on the market and that, therefore, banks, not having to buy securities, can give them to companies; but we are still in the predicate of the future, in the field of probability, because nothing, no coherent and tax-making measures assure us that this will happen. In the eight or ten minutes I have at my disposal I certainly cannot list a punctual criticism of this document. However, I merely point out, for major issues, that the optimism that the Government shows in relation to the increase in GDP is refuted by eminent scholars and an institution like SVIMEZ, who think in a different way. But, also assuming that more 0.7% is an accessible goal for our nation, it is to be noted that the South, in the same forecasts, will mark a minus 0.4%. Therefore we continue to have a nation that walks on two marches and that should ripen, according to the forecasts of the government, a gap between North and South of more than 1% of the gross domestic product. So what Graziano Delrio said, today a neominister, according to which 2015 will be the year of the South, which will grow in percentage more than the North, is completely destitute of foundation. Of course, there is no trace of the profound and radical reforms that must cut unproductive public spending and reduce the burden of the powers and powers of the State. We keep all the carriage beautiful, alive and well and we go looking among the brambles for some blackberry or some wild fruit in order to feed the Italian people. We now come to health care. In the health sector there is once again a linear cut of 2.35 billion: the National Health Fund goes from 112 billion to 109 billion, but not even this can be an argument to shout at the scandal, although we find ourselves in a country that reserves for health less than 7% of the ratio between wealth and gross domestic product, since it is even more significant especially if we take into account the much higher percentages of other European countries. But I wanted to respond to what Senator Dirindin said: this is not about putting more money in the basket, because taking water with the basket means bringing an empty basket to your mouth. The question is not to put more money; rather, the problem is to create a system of state third-partyness, stating once and for all that the advertising, gratuitousness and universality of the health service must not necessarily coincide with the statehood and monopoly - which is often political or clientele - of the national health system. However, there is also some good intention in the DEF, dear Deputy Minister Morando, when it comes to reviewing and updating the system of rates for payments, but it is not enough: we have to pay at a rate on one side and on the other of the system. On the one hand, in fact, damaged on the rates to the credited to private management, on the other you continue to pay more of the same benefits, which cost from five up to ten times more. 11:58 a.m. (Follow D'ANNA). On the one hand, continue not to impose analytical budgets to calculate the cost of the individual performance; on the other hand, continue to guarantee under the name of the statality, confused with advertising, the cliques to political policy. That's why health care doesn't work. So in a document such as this, which contains a set of statements of intent, it is not enough to talk about the revision of tariffs: we have been waiting for 19 years for the truth. I appreciate the government's uproar and resistance to this problem, but it can't be enough and I don't say it for category claims, but because those who pretend to pay will get benefits from those who pretend to work. If after 19 years we are not able to establish the criteria to correctly determine the payment of health benefits because we continue to squander money in state management in order to then recover them on the part that - turnkey - offers a performance at a fixed price, we will continue to have a situation in which the private one chooses the most profitable performance and the public is allowed to squander the money. In conclusion, what is the system then, Deputy Minister Morando? It is necessary to finance the health system at benefits and no longer at a per capita level: public or private structures must be financed on the basis of predetermined rates, even more profitable for the public and for the additional functions it carries out. Only then can we go and finance efficiency and excellence. In a massive, approved and state-owned health care you will obtain what your predecessors have obtained: a debt to be cut. [[Applause from Senator Comrade.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u65	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u66	Mr President, the DEF should be the Document which gathers forecasts of the development of our economy and of what will be the interventions of the Government in the next law of stability. The only way, then, for us senators to consider whether to vote for or against this document is because of the reliability or not of the forecasts contained therein. From a reading, however superficial because it can never be completely in-depth, of this Document, we see a whole series of forecasts that have no connection with the reality of the facts and on which, therefore, we manifest all our reservations and concerns. It is said in this document that there is the intention to reduce the tax burden and the intention to relaunch investment; it is expected that GDP will increase by 0.7% and that between 2015 and 2017 the public debt will finally decrease (in the face of a progressive and unstoppable increase that has manifested itself also in these days and that it has been recorded at all levels, national and international); privatizations, which has been fabulous for a long time, are expected and it is expected that finally the safeguard clauses for 2016 will not apply definitively that weigh on every economic document that has been approved by this Parliament in recent years. These are the predictions. In order to assess whether these forecasts are reliable or not, we need to check whether what the Government carried out last year has materialized, whether they were reliable and whether they have been reflected in concrete facts or have remained in the air, totally detached from reality and then caused an objective difficulty in drawing up the law of stability at the end of the year. Analyzing the Document from a year ago, we note that the Government had predicted an increase in GDP of 1.3%. We then recorded in October, in the update, that this increase was reduced to 0.5. On the other hand, we have seen, with the end-of-year stability law, and therefore with the reality of the facts, that there has been a decrease of 0.4% of GDP. This was the government's planning action last year and we should believe, it is not well known why, that this year the government's forecasts can deserve our trust and our consent because they are reliable. I believe that these elements are sufficient to establish that the forecasts contained in the DEF have no basis in relation to the reality of the facts. There is Renzi's Italy, that of the DEF, illusions, promises, words, chatter, and illusory forecasts. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] And then there is real Italy, where the streets and schools collapse, where unemployment increases, where companies close, where the distrust, misery and despair of all our people progressively increases. I believe that it is more reliable, for each of us, to verify and evaluate such forecasts according to the real Italy, the real one we see every day on our territory, comparing ourselves with our people. That of the DEF and that of the Renzi Government is an Italy that does not exist. It exists only in his fantasy and in his words. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] There is another aspect of the DEF in our examination that concerns us and it is the revision of the expenditure that is estimated by the government in almost 10 billion. The element that worries us the most, however, is the way in which the Government wants to implement the revision of the expenditure: not attacking the costs of the state apparatus, of the central expenditure of the State, that has never been attacked by this Government, has always been left aside compared to every cut. We fear that the cuts will be directed exclusively to local authorities already massacred. The problem will not be dealt with by mayors, regional presidents, regional or provincial councillors, because these cuts will be suffered by citizens. In fact, there is talk of cuts in health care. The DEF establishes a review of the LEAs, key levels of assistance to citizens, and the pharmaceutical prontuary. There will be an update of the services and medicines provided by the National Health Service. There will be a review of the citizen's sharing system for the financing of health benefits. All this means less health services, less exemptions on drugs, increased tickets. This is what you expect in your DEF. There is also talk of efficiency and rationalization of the public transport sectors. But what does rationalization mean? It means cuts, when public transport of municipalities and inter-regional trains has already collapsed. There is also a reduction in tax deductions, which means more taxes to be paid to citizens. There is talk of a revision of the cadastral values of buildings, and every time we talk about revision almost always (in fact, always) we have reached an increase in the rates of municipalities on IMU, TASI, TARSI and in any other way you have named them. So, Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, we do not recognize ourselves in this DEF at all. We would have liked to read more reliable forecasts and not of non-existent treasures. We would have liked to see the expenditure of the state apparatus attacked and not affected, as always, the essential services to people, now unsustainable and cry out for revenge not only in this Parliament but above all in the country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u67	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u68	Mr President, I would like to add immediately to Senator Tosato's speech, because what is most evident in this DEF - as in others, alas, in recent years - is the total distance between the forecasts made by the governments and contained in this document and the reality of the facts. It didn't just happen to this government. Over the last ten years, the average distance between what was planned and what was actually achieved has caused 15 or less points of GDP to be recorded; which means that if we had really achieved what we had undertaken to do, perhaps today we would not talk about a difficult and very critical situation in our country from the economic point of view. But what is most regrettable to read in this DEF, as happened also in the law of stability, are the aims very oriented to the electoral dimension. Therefore, I would not like us to start a new course of the DEF so that, every time we vote, there is a need for a prebenda that must be inserted within a DEF or, worse still, a law of stability. It happened with the 80 euros and it could happen again, if we didn't make it clear immediately that the fantastic little treasure - a question on which I would invite the Government to a more thrifty use of the terms, also because the word has always brought bad and I hope it is not so this time - that is to say that 0.1% of GDP, that is to say that 1.6 billion euros that, as explained not only during the hearings but also this morning in his report the rapporteur Guerrieri Paleotti, is the result of the difference between the last programmatic data of debt and the current trend of debt to current legislation does not represent an additional resource: it is an amount that instead describes only a possible improvement of the negative data. It's brilliant to call it sweetie, but politically it's irresponsible. We have also been reminded of this by the Parliamentary Budget Office, which has played a valuable and important role in this round of hearings, when it has expressly considered the decision to spend these hypothetical resources imprudent without that improvement having already materialized. Among other things - I add - how can we devote, Deputy Minister Morando, to multi-annual interventions on the projection of this DEF, hypothetical resources that, even if they were realized, would be realized for a single year? That is why the optimism that feeds the debate, especially the television debate, around this DEF seems disproportionate and disproportionate to us beyond that 0.7% (which becomes 0.2% or 0.5% according to the International Monetary Fund) that indicates our possible growth. I also wonder if the Government has carefully assessed in what relation that supposed 0.7% is with the effect of the quantitative easing that the Bank of Italy assesses as 1% of GDP in the 2015-2016 two-year period. These are very important data, because it seems that we are talking only about nominal or balance sheet issues, but in reality all this translates into positive or negative effects on the real life of our country. In the real life of our country, the topic of investment is urgent, but we still give too much rhetoric, especially in the DEF. The government says that it has a significant share of 1.9 percent compared to the 2014 figure, but here too we are talking about a single nominal figure, which also contains 0.6% (so many euros) due to accounting reclassifications (which apply to us as well as to other countries of Europe), from which 0.3% that is equal to the value of our programmed inflation should be decommissioned. In this way we are still convinced that we are facing an economic policy that is based on growth because it is based on investment or instead we are still re-editing, sometimes even caricature, the notorious tax spending? A policy really aimed at growth is based on a market freedom that we must be able to guarantee more and more, even in the delicate context of the pressing and heavy reduction that we must succeed in making of that voice of intermediate consumption, made of purchases of goods and services of the public administration, that we hope can produce savings and cuts, but that at the moment has certainly produced a impoverishment of the freedom of the market in our country, to the detriment above all of small and medium-sized enterprises that, in front of the large cartels of the national lots of the centralised purchase of goods and services of the public administration, remain crushed by dynamics that we know very well, but that perhaps would be the case to deepen better. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to thank the Government once again for giving its consent to an important survey that the Budget Committee has already proposed to the Government in the examination of the Stability Act, in order to check how, numbers and savings are true, which are the only ones that can hold a DEF all projected from additional resources that we hope derive from unproductive cuts in expenditure to safeguard an economic-financial balance but also social. It is precisely on the expenditure cuts that a very strong alarm bell has been stirred by those local authorities that we have heard, between municipalities, provinces and regions, and which have shown, count to hand, how the greatest sacrifices and efforts have made them instead of the central public administration, which had more margins. I therefore invite the Government to be more attentive to all those clauses of flexibility that are our only true salvation, so that there can be determined, as has already been anticipated by Deputy Minister Morando in his closing report last night, those conditions that allow us to review, in that pact of flexibility, the only possible way out for our country from this dramatic crisis. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Minister Morando, the particular economic situation in which we find ourselves on the monetary and oil costs and the Draghi Plan is an opportunity that must be taken absolutely. As authoritative economic analysts claim, this is perhaps the first real occasion in which Italy can leave behind the economic crisis. Turning around my territory, I begin to notice in recent months, alongside the undeniable difficulties that still weigh on different sectors of our economy, a different climate, especially among small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, among the many operators in the productive world. I also note, even if still timidly, the desire to roll up the sleeves, to leave this difficult period behind and to face a different future. And then the reasoning applies to this Economic and Financial Document, but it can apply to the entire agenda of this legislature. We must put the political centre at the forefront of this scenario and this feeling of timid trust. We must give Italy instruments and courage in order to be able to meet this new season, despite the difficult international scenario and the dramatic situation in the Mediterranean, on which we addressed yesterday: I hope that today the European Council will be able to find the right measures on the spot, but above all the unity of the objectives. For this reason, while I consider the government's prudence about growth prospects to be acceptable, on the other hand I hope that this will not give rise to a shyness of the economic policy line, a lack of courage. It is important, however, at this stage, to carry out with courage the structural reforms that have been put in place and it is important to put new ones on the agenda: I am thinking of tax, justice, the reduction of the tax wedge, the decontribution for the new recruits that must be made structural, everything that can make the country system more agile, in order to increase its international competitiveness, credibility and attractiveness in the eyes of foreign investors. Our goal must be to increase the country's growth potential, focusing on investment. I believe that this DEF still lacks a strong vision on this point, when, in my opinion, any measure of any kind will have to be assessed by the method of the ability to support industry and growth and by the repercussions it is capable of producing. The same applies to public investment. They need to be increased, focusing not only on large works, but also on smaller ones, which are a valuable boost to growth and more support for private individuals, by increasing the tax credit on innovation and investment in structural goods. We need to reform the procurement code, and we are already working on this, in order to prevent large investments being completely blocked for years by appeals, which are now a short-term practice. And we must also stop the perverse system triggered by the agreed estimates, because we can no longer tolerate an entrepreneur trying to save his company in difficulty by sinking honest businesses. At the same time, as the rapporteur has pointed out, a qualifying point of the DEF is the proposal to prevent the activation of safeguard clauses in 2016, the increase in VAT and excise duties due to revenue developments and the pressure of interest expenditure (0.4% of GDP), as well as expenditure review measures (0.6 percent of GDP). This is a point that I think is quite right, because it is clear to everyone that the increase in VAT and excise duties would go in the opposite direction to the recovery and the confidence that is slowly returning to the productive classes, giving it a hard blow. Finally, it is important to implement a strategy for spending review. For too long, politics has chosen the path of linear cuts, which barely touch real waste and risk normalizing excellence. On the contrary, it is necessary to have the courage and authority of surgical cuts where real waste is lurking. I have given only a few examples, but I hope that I have given the sense that for us self-employed people must have the DEF and the phrase that we live: to intertwine, that is, strong impulses to recovery, a spasmodic attention to everything that can put the country back on track, with a series of structural reforms in order to make Italy a fully modern country, fully European and able to engage and overcome the challenges of tomorrow. Among these reforms, I believe there should also be greater attention to local autonomy, to the real transfer of competences and responsibilities to the territories so that they can best express their vocation and find a place and a role as a protagonist in relation to the challenges of the global scenario. In the coming weeks, President Renzi will visit the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano. We are sure that this will be a further opportunity for our Government to understand how the responsible autonomy can be the effective solution to Italy's problems. It is not by focusing on the inability of the territories to administer their resources, also because - it is before everyone's eyes - the central state is a very heavy machine that fails to have the timeliness and flexibility necessary to be effective. The real solution is to ensure that each one responds to what he produces and receives, having the courage to judge and recognize merits. A society that flattens everything on the national level is a society destined to mortify excellence, diversity and meritocracy and, therefore, not to be competitive. The DEF we are discussing here has a basically positive system, but I think we can do even better, even more: I believe that we can and must have more courage and more concreteness. Of course, it is a challenging goal, but it is the only one we can pursue. We self-employed in recent months have made many proposals to support the economy, to simplify taxation, to boost the competitiveness of our companies, to enhance quality and sustainability. And we also asked that the Milan Expo is certainly an opportunity to relaunch Italy's role in the face of the challenges of world food (and the Milan Charter is an authoritative example of this), but we also asked that our agriculture is not only important to enhance the environment and protect health, but that it be given the role of a fundamental productive sector that produces development and gives real employment opportunities to young people. On the ability of our country to demonstrate quality and reliability also in agri-food productions, perhaps especially in agri-food productions, the real challenge of the Expo is played. We have also called for a specific policy for mountain areas, to avoid depopulation and desertification: but we have also called for decisive action on the ability of culture to produce ideas and added value, on the need to focus more on scientific research and on a school that is truly of excellence and capable of getting young people to work and making them competitive, also in terms of language knowledge. And we have called for a more active labour policy, which aims to create new employment rather than on social shock absorbers, which are yes important but not sufficient and which are at risk of becoming unemployed at work. Some of our demands have been accepted; on others, unfortunately, there has been a lack of the courage that we hope will be recovered in the months to follow. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u70	Senator De Barba is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u71	Mr President, representatives of the Government, senator and senator, the 2015 Economic and Financial Document, after several dark years and heavy sacrifices for citizens and businesses, finally contains data and economic forecasts of public finance that show, already from the present year, a decisive change of course. Of course, there are still many unknowns that weigh on the country but we can start looking to the future with new perspectives. The favourable evolution of the international and national macroeconomic context is in fact pushing the ship Italy towards a path of stable and lasting growth, such as to place the relationship between debt and GDP on a reassuring path for the country and for the financial markets. It is true that we enjoy favorable winds, but someone too often forgets that this ship has been taken from the center of a storm, rescued from the rocks and sheltered in port with great sacrifice of the Italians and great commitment of the Government (and of the Governments) in recent years. As far as the macroeconomic scenario is concerned, the 2015 Economic and Finance Document illustrates a programmatic trend that marks a GDP growth of 0.7 in 2015, which would be 1.4 and 1.5 percent respectively in the following two years: these figures were unthinkable only two years ago, due to the deep crisis that struck the country and our economy. The change of scenery outlined in the Economic and Finance Document contributes to strengthening and making it clear that economic and monetary policy interventions are being adopted in Europe, as well as, as has already been pointed out, the development of crude oil prices. Between this mix of interventions certainly deserve a citation the so-called quantitative easing, from which we expect the conditions to be restored for the institutions to be able to grant credit to the companies. This will not happen automatically, because of the effect of quantitative easing alone. Certainly the Government and Parliament will have to help Italian credit institutions also to deal with the problem of non-performing loans, which currently weighs down the budgets of our banks. The depreciation of the euro is another element that surely drives these winds and this change of course and helps exports and companies that mainly export quality Italian products abroad. However, it is important to note that, alongside this significant export data, this trend is also supported by efforts on domestic demand. And, therefore, although these positive winds outside of the government's action must be recognized and welcomed, all efforts to balance the situation internally must also be highlighted at the same time. During the Italian Presidency of the EU, a decisive impetus was given to the debate on the investment agenda in Europe and our country was one of the guiding principles of the initiative that led to the investment plan. I remember only 315 billion investments over three years. This measure will probably not be enough, but it marks a sharp discontinuity with the past, also on the subject of investment. Finally, I would like to mention two speeches that characterize this DEF. The first is to prevent the activation of the safeguard clauses for 2016, which have already been mentioned in this House and on which, therefore, I do not entertain any further. The second intervention is the use of the flexibility of public finances linked to the European reform clause. The effects of this second intervention have already been extensively explained. I conclude by recalling that the National Reform Programme provides for the strengthening of this trend through the necessary structural change that passes through the important reforms underway and coming: institutional reform, public administration, the labour market, justice, tax reform, expenditure review, privatisation, competition and competitiveness policies, the credit sector, the environment, infrastructure, school reform and the national digital school plan. They are all interventions that today allow us to look to the future with a different perspective, with an optimism that certainly does not want to unbalance. Even if we are in the phase of the curve for which the trend data and the programmatic actions of the Government let us use words of optimism for the future, let us not forget that the Italians are experiencing their moment of minimum of this curve, the most difficult moment. And, then, it is to the Italians that we deliver the efforts of this DEF and to the efforts that today weigh on their shoulders, on families and companies. Certainly, over the next three years, a parliamentary term will have to insist on reforms so that these prospects become a reality. [[Applause from Senator Ginetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u72	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u73	Mr President, the President-in-Office of the Council and his staff are, as you know, lovers of the House of Cards, the TV series in which we talk about strategies and cynicism in politics. However, Machiavellianly, the President of the Council uses old consensus techniques by applying them in an innovative way, otherwise one would not understand some of the choices contained in the DEF, nor even his general philosophy. There is an economic theory, born in the United States, called the economic electoral cycle, which provides that the economic policy choices of governments are linked to the electoral deadlines, so that citizens, in expressing their voting preferences, can be influenced by the state of the economy. In the United States there are fixed-term elections and the central one for those who make macroeconomic choices is every four years, with the presidential elections. Instead, in Italy elections are almost every year and a President of the Council who has not been directly elected to Parliament, with a "popular" investiture attributed to the European elections, who became President with political maneuvers of the palace from the first Republic, must often create opportunities for a seemingly new consensus. Thus, in this political management of "rhythm" and speed, each deadline and every act become reason to show the muscles and trigger a new "electoral political cycle." So it was done with the choice of 80 euros in pay envelope, politically correct, but economically irrelevant compared to the impact on purchasing power and consumption, and so it is done today, with the alleged "tresoret." It is enough to read not what we support, who have always been enrolled in the category of "owls," but the editorials of Confindustria, who make some doubts about this choice, unless even in this case you are faced with a "Lauro 2.0." Industrialists, who may not complain much about this Government that is applying their choices, have defined your predictions of owning a treasure trove as a weapon of mass distraction. These are strong terms, which were used in other times. The reality of things is very different: the reality, with which even the most unscrupulous politicians have to deal, is that for years the austerity policies - which the President of the Council concluded a few days ago, in front of President Obama - will continue, as shown by the cuts to local authorities already defined and which only shift the attention and responsibility of economic choices from the central level to the local one. The central government may thus feel absolved, but alas it will always be involved, because the European semester has also brought neither a 'changer', nor changes in pace, nor changes in austerity policies and, as we saw yesterday in the debate in this House on foreigners, not even an important issue such as immigration. You have announced that there will be no further cuts for regions and local authorities. Lie! You only talk about direct cuts - Senator Fornaro explained it very well - but then there are cuts to health care, local public transport, waste collection and the reorganization of the participants. In short, there is a "spending review 1 and 2," which is likely to fall on health and in general on services to citizens on the territory. Are these not cuts to regions and local authorities? The austerity measures would cost local and territorial authorities about €26 billion, to compensate for which the tax burden on citizens has been increased, a theme constantly avoided by the analysis of the Government: only in 2014 regional taxes rose by almost 4% and municipal taxes by 9%. The expenditure for training and the Italian school remains below the European average and the law of stability for 2015 has not allocated adequate resources to eliminate the gap of training offering with the rest of Europe. Net of a growth up to 2016 linked to the resources contained in the Stability Act, the DEF instead outlines, in the medium and long term, a forecast of spending in education that drops drastically, up to a reduction of about 10 billion euros, which are added to the cuts of ministers Gelmini and Tremonti. It would be interesting, instead, to restart the country, to invest resources in education, taking inspiration from other countries, not only European, because the goal of achieving an allocation of 6% of GDP for education is now a priority for our country... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Since the time available to me is over, I would ask that the remainder of my speech be handed over, so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and Senator Fornaro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u74	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u75	Senator Bellot is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u76	Mr President, Deputy Minister Morando, ladies and gentlemen, the DEF should be the most effective and concrete document to achieve the programming objectives for economic recovery in the country. This is a measure that sets out commitments for a medium and long term period and the guidelines for the public policies of this Government, intended therefore to pursue objectives, but from the content of which it is evident, instead, the smallness of what this DEF inside can produce. Avoiding tax increases does not mean playing on taxpayers' skin, telling that without the activation of your - I repeat: your - safeguard clauses the financial objectives will be pursued. Among other things, these safeguard clauses are often linked to election campaign interventions. I was saying that they will not be prosecuted and there will be, therefore, the one that, always from electoral ads, is sold as a reduction in taxation. No more teasing this country; no more teasing the citizens. The taxes on them will not be reduced and you know it well. The tax burden has exceeded 44 percent and no scissors have been applied to the exits, so much so that an increase of 4 percent is expected. In the next five years, between direct and indirect taxes, the tax staff will be EUR 100 billion. There is no strict intervention on the state budget, no concrete action, but - indeed - an increase in public expenditure: purchases, contracts, salaries and so on. Waste is not cut. Local authorities become collectors of a central government that drains resources at their expense. Local authorities are thus forced, in order to provide services, to operate at the limit - I repeat: at the limit - of the respect of the taxpayer (what you have not), increasingly taxed in exchange for the reduction of services. Applause goes to the mayors, who, on the front line, still manage to survive. I do not forget my mayors in mountain areas, those areas that Del Rio called special, but to which he did not devote a euro. Good. So, no more linear cuts. An incisive DEF, I said, but there is nothing here about content. A DEF that is based on the fight against evasion, therefore also estimates. Certainly the fight against evasion must exist - it is a fight against evasion due - but it must be monitored in the motivations, all too often dictated by the survival of companies and citizens who, unfortunately, also in Veneto pay with their lives. So it is clear that the only way would be to make a tax reduction. In our view, this would already be a good start, a deterrent to the choice of equity and tax justice. We must combat evasion in this way. However, we must operate not only in this way, but also through the use of standard costs and, of course, by stopping using these linear cuts, which are destroying virtuous territories, virtuous mayors and virtuous realities. To conclude, this DEF does not present anything new, while it should have anticipated the fight against waste and concreteness. It's just a copy of last year's DEF and - we can already put it in black and white - what the 2016 DEF will be. Our Group - the Autonomous Federalism and Freedom Group - opposes this Government, denouncing its effectiveness, of course, but only in words and certainly not in actions. People ask: people want action and concreteness and no more electoral ads. [[Applause from Senators Bisinella and Munerato]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u77	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u78	Mr President, one more missed opportunity, yet another announced regret of what could be and is not and will not be: it can be summarized in this layout, Senators and Deputy Minister, the Document of Economics and Finance presented to the Chambers by this Government. It is a series of announcements and the request for delegation in white. In short, we continue to expropriate the Parliament of prerogatives; we proceed with blows of parliamentary macete with undivided will, rather than with a general desire to reform. Just remedies, soothing and palliative. My fellow Members are probably harsh, but it is the approximation in the DEF texts that allows me, in spite of me, to speak in such non-flattering terms on the quality of the maneuver expressed by the Renzi Government. The principle of delegation, in its constitutional legitimacy, cannot be abused, even more so if the constant recourse to delegation proves ineffective and inefficient for the fate of the Italian economy. Let us look, for example, at what is being accessed by the tax authority. Let's look with the shaky wrists at what happens for the so-called Delrio reform, which is packed with delegations; the Provinces are now reduced to shreds: an intermediate agency becomes scary for the citizens. The doubt arises that such a port of fog, created in the periphery of the country on the territories, is functional to the pernicious will of demagogy of a government of majority and opposition, and then again to put hand to artificially constructed precariousness. On the same track travel the government's desireful dreams of reforming important police bodies, such as the forestry one. Instead of a reasonable retraining of staff and a greater technological endowment, a smoky delegation is being made and incorporated. But is it ever conceivable to appear in the Chambers without knowing and without letting know the fate of a large heritage of experiences, skills and benemerencies which, in fact, belong to our Forest Body of the State? Something similar has happened with the Province staff, today looking for author, struggling to settle down. In Bari, for example, the orchestrals of the Symphony Orchestra of the Province are waiting to perform half funeral Masses, when not yet ready for the Iraqi dies, which also the Executive will provoke with its overwhelming solicitation to discomfort, precariousness, and it will be more and more workers, families, the system of enterprises to make the expenses, with an economy that never takes off and will never take off, conditioned by such ineptitude to govern. [[Applause from Senator Carraro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u79	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u80	Mr President, in fact, we have been accustomed in the past to hearing the DEF defined by majority and opposition as the book of dreams. This year that this book of dreams could really be packaged thanks to the international conjuncture, there are few dreams. On the other hand, there are many concerns, as is also apparent from the reports of the hearings held in the Joint Budget Commissions by the actors of the national economy, both employers' associations and institutions. There are also many concerns arising from the fact that in the end in this Document the Government tells us very little of what it intends to do with respect to what can be the opportunities that can be seized, precisely from the international economic situation, therefore also from a consequent automatic improvement of some voices of public finance. What I am saying is so true that the majority motion for a resolution, to which I have just taken a look, even seems more challenging than the DEF itself in giving direction to the government. We were also accustomed to very scant majority relations; when the Government Documents actually convince, they are very succinctly approved. Instead, this very existence of an overall distrust in the indeterminateness with which the Government faced the DEF must push us to be even more incisive. In fact, we will present a motion for a resolution in which we say to the Government that if it is true, as the Government says - on this sympathetically we could entertain in the reading of all the agencies of recent days compared to the famous treasure - that there will be resources available, we would like them to be directed primarily to the reduction of the tax burden. As the rapporteur has rightly said, the future of the good economy of our country will largely pass through the recovery of consumption in the internal market. It is necessary, however, that the Government, despite its positions are not perfectly coincident with ours, is convinced that this recovery of the internal market can only take place if we begin to reduce taxes on some sectors, starting from the real estate one, and also immediately affecting the agricultural one, which in recent years have been the object, and continue to be the object, of real assets, that not only deprive those sectors of resources, but also compress the confidence of the citizens in the investment in those sectors. The Government itself recognizes that the tax burden - at least these are the things that are read between the lines of the full-bodied Document - is not bound to decrease. So do the OECD and ISTAT. There is a sort of dancing of the data, between those that the Government tries to make us human and those, I imagine more realistic, that the international and national bodies of survey provide; the latter clearly tell us that unfortunately the fiscal pressure in our country is not destined to decrease. Is there a lack of resources? Maybe. But there should be resources. Why should we always be the international taillight when favourable business opportunities arise? Why must we insist that we do not structurally review public spending in our country, thinking of making reforms that are only such from a nominal point of view and not from a substantial point of view? Public administration expenditure did not decrease. One of the most alarming data that has emerged in recent days from the Document and the hearings is that public expenditure has increased and is set to increase still by 0.9 billion in 2015 compared to 2014, because obviously the reforms that have been proposed, both on the territorial authorities, and on the central machine of the State, have not been useful to reduce public expenditure. The Cottarelli plan has absolutely failed in its findings and so it happened with the reforms. It is not possible for a constitutional reform to be tackled without addressing the node of the presence of territorial authorities in our country. We continue to feed a huge number of public spending centres: from the 21 Regions to the 8,200 municipalities, to the 110 Provinces, which have in fact remained so, even if they have changed the model of governance (even removed from democratic control of citizens), to the thousands and thousands of companies participated and connected to the public bodies in our country. The famous reforms of this Government do not change anything and will not affect at all a reduction in the centres of expenditure, which is the only real mechanism through which one can achieve a reduction in public expenditure. Not to mention the abandonment or lack of opportunity of other sectors, from culture - as many colleagues have pointed out - to investment. We continue not to be determined in completing the investments that must connect our country to the international reality and the international context. The great European corridors are still firm, not only because of the outcome of the disputes, but also because of the results of their cantierability and the progress of the yards. We have a Mediterranean projection, which was mentioned a few days ago in this House with great emphasis, but which does not even appear for a comma in this government document. Yet the world moves around us. Yet Suez is doubling the canal. Yet even the countries that are more backward or that are considered more backward than we are moving, with adequate infrastructures to grasp the opportunities of the traffics and the transports of the future. But what are we planning in our country? This government only wants to change reforms by majority vote (and by a majority internal to the majority), which will certainly not solve the country's structural problems. That is why we will be tabling our own motion for a resolution, as well as amendments to the majority motion for a resolution, because we want the government to clarify, if ever there were resources available, where it intends to allocate them and whether or not the reduction of the tax burden is its priority objective or whether it intends to continue to feed public expenditure. This is news that we must give to Italian citizens. We cannot just see the majority sharing this document, but it is very doubtful - I repeat - that the majority agrees with this document, having tabled a motion for a resolution containing about twenty invitations to the Government to do some things, which means recognising that the Government has not done them or is not doing them. We cannot, however, prevent Parliament from saying its say on the allocation of resources; we cannot continue to hear from authoritative government representatives that the Premier will decide, as if the government itself did not exist and, as far as we are concerned, as if Parliament did not exist, that it must give precise guidelines. As long as there is the constitutional scaffolding in which we have been operating for 150 years, the Government is the executive of a parliamentary will, which is what should then be the will of the country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u81	Senator Santini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u82	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the economic strategy outlined by the DEF is very clear and it is equally clear that it represents a clear gap from previous years. I am not resuming at this point in the debate the numbers, which we know well and which are mentioned clearly. I would just say that we are moving from the recession of previous years to a growth strategy already quantified also in its increasing numerical impact in the coming years, which is obviously helped by what has been defined as a favourable international window: I am referring to the external factors we know such as quantitative easing, the reduction of spread interest rates, the improvement of the relationship between the euro and the dollar, the low price of oil. However, as the DEF says, we must focus above all and firmly on increasing domestic demand for consumption and investment, and this seems to me to be the most politically relevant point on which it is good for Parliament to debate and it is good that it does so and takes it seriously with regard to its concrete possibility of achieving it. To the objections raised also during the debate on the credibility of the forecasts, this year we can also respond with elements a little more certain than in previous years, because it is the first year of full functioning of the Parliamentary Budget Office. Without mentioning the excellent report presented in the consultation, I believe that the fact of the validation of this Parliamentary Budget Office - I would stress Parliament's response to this Parliament - must be recorded in relation to these objectives, on the basis of a detailed analysis of all the major institutions at macroeconomic level of the forecasts. I believe that we can therefore start from this base with confidence and seriousness and make our comments. In my opinion, it is of fundamental importance to give strength, as in the DEF, to all those factors that depend on our country and that can now act concretely on growth, starting naturally from the fact that the reforms indicated in detail in the national plan must be accelerated and not stopped. Without going into the matter - many colleagues have done so - this is a general objective of approach that must surely be maintained and put to good use in this 2015 and in the coming years. In particular, I would like to focus on some of the factors included in the National Reform Programme. First of all, the issue of investment. I believe that, for the work done during 2014 and in this period of 2015 and for the work we have to do, we have a wide range of instruments in front of us, both in the private sector and in the public sector, which aims to give support and above all to promote a revival and to allow an increase in investment. I mention only, quickly, the mechanism of the guarantee on investments themselves, now perfected through various legislative measures, which must be put into effect, strengthened and federated; support for credit, a fundamental point, where, at this time, the important liquidity arising from the rules and measures of the European Central Bank is crossed, to the fact that measures must be added, as we said during the consultations, to overcome the heavy burden of banking suffering. Eliminating this element, which is still making credit go to a lower regime than would be needed, is a fundamental point that is assumed in the DEF and that we must support with particular force. Again on the subject of private investment, it is necessary to complete the payment of public administration debts, to avoid new debts arising in the following years and also to correct, or better compensate for, some important measures, such as the split payment, which have a consequence, i.e. create a VAT credit on companies that I believe is everyone's interest is quickly honoured without giving rise to any further increases in public administration debts towards the private sector. Therefore, very strong action is needed to support the investment effort that private individuals will also have to make in relation to the prospects it opens up, both in the private sector of small and medium-sized enterprises and in the public sector, the Juncker plan. We must fight at European level for its rapid preparation, with all the issues we know and to ensure that it is also actively intertwined with national interventions and thus can fuel this choice. With regard to the public sector in particular, I would like to mention with great conviction the need, said in the DEF and I believe that this understanding can also be strengthened, to give rise to the use of European funds for programming 2014-2020 that is now coming alive also because of the delays we have experienced in the previous cycle, going to have a greater impact on the aims of this programming by dedicating it to all those assets of territorial type, of infrastructural type, of contrast of the hydrogeological failure and of the safety of the territory and of the predisposition of the externalities that favor the direct development of the investments. This is a very important point in my view. The government is giving us the necessary attention and it is important that there is also a constant stimulus from Parliament to do so, particularly in relation to the procedures by which these funds are used. There is an agency for territorial cohesion that is finally working and, above all, it is necessary to overcome the serious delays that are fueled, then, in the articulation of the national and regional territorial institutions that are engaged in the use of these funds. I believe that measures of substitute powers should also be used, without fear, where there are delays, to promote the optimisation of these European funds, which will, in some respects, be the fundamental part of possible public investment, and I am thinking in particular of infrastructure. Always on the public topic I think it is important to free investments in the territory. Local finance, other colleagues have talked about it, is a delicate point, at this time, of suffering but also of potentiality. We must continue on the path of overcoming the Stability Pact, the adoption of virtuous criteria in budgets (standard requirements and standard costs), with the possibility therefore of recreating that virtuous circle that can also make an important contribution in the territory to restart investments. On the subject of employment, obviously not secondary with regard to the food of internal demand because it means income, it means consumption capacity and also, of course, possibilities for more serious and longer-term life plans, we must continue with the actions already implemented with the jobs act and also seriously assess the possibility, given the success of this measure (it is of these hours a very important figure relative to the month of March in which we have a positive balance of over 90,000 new employment contracts, most of which indefinitely, exactly the objective that the law set) to maintain this incentive to hiring indefinitely even beyond 2015, precisely to feed the fight against unemployment which is the other element that helps the increase of work and therefore of internal demand. Finally, I believe that further tax increases should be avoided very seriously, as the DEF does. The DEF takes on a very serious, hard and demanding commitment: to remove safeguard clauses. It does so through the benefits of improving the economic cycle and a smart expenditure review. We believe that this is something to be seriously honored, by making spending cuts that do not affect the level of services to citizens, but on areas of overlap, duplication and sometimes inefficiency that are still present. It is a question of working at last taking account of standard needs and costs on the one hand and, on the other hand, a review of expenditure on intermediate goods and many other ways of using tax breaks, which in some sectors may no longer have any reason to be. It is therefore necessary to ensure that this review is carried out and implemented in a serious manner, as a necessary element in order to avoid an increase in taxation. If we continue on the path indicated by the DEF, with the strength and capacity of the Government and Parliament to implement the measures envisaged, implementing them with conviction, fullness, quality and effectiveness, those objectives can be achieved and perhaps even improved. In this way we can really enter a phase of growth tending to be stable, recurring and continuous, which is the final goal of this Document of finance economy for the years before us. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u83	The debate is closed. I communicate that the Presidency has received and the motions for resolutions No 1, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other Senators, No 2 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, No 3, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other Senators, No 4, tabled by Senator Marton and other Senators, No 5, tabled by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller, and No 6, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other Senators are distributed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Guerrieri Paleotti.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u84	Mr President, I am speaking very briefly. All the speeches have been of great interest, but I believe that the contents and aims of the DEF, as expressed in my report, should be reiterated and that, in most of the speeches, they seem to me to have been approved in some way, even if they have been commented on in various ways. Of course, I do not want to repeat why the report has been filed. However, I would like to make very brief comments and some points. The first one. I would remind you that the presentation of this document, in addition to the important fact of Parliament's approval, is part of a procedure, the European Semester for the coordination of economic policies, which is the Union's operational instrument through which economic surveillance of Member States' policies is carried out and which expresses precisely the effort to use in some way a number of instruments for coordinating and evaluating these policies. I say this because the evaluation criteria of the DEF should also be expressed in relation to this procedure which, as one of the Member States of the European Union, we have not only actively contributed to forging but also actively supported. Therefore, the positive view I expressed in the DEF report also referred to this procedure. One of the data I have noticed is that very few have actually pointed out that the approval of this Programme Document is now taking place at European and national level. The second observation is that I believe that many have been reminded and shared that the objectives of the DEF remain fundamentally important and very important precisely taking into account the present phase, since they aim to support the economic recovery, not only by preventing the increase in the tax levy, but by ensuring that it tends to decrease through interventions aimed at eliminating the effects of the clauses provided for in the Stability Act (the previous and the previous years). The second important objective is to start the ratio of public debt to GDP on a reduction path, acting mainly on the denominator of the same ratio and therefore on the increase of GDP and growth. This is an important fact because the adjustment path changes qualitatively as well as quantitatively. The third objective, as has been pointed out by a number of interventions, is to promote the recovery of consumption and domestic investment precisely because through this the recovery of production and employment will pass. We can therefore say that this framework presents fundamental discontinuities with what had been drawn from documents that referred to previous years, without disowning as in these documents but also in the laws of stability a path of adjustment has been made that has been very expensive for the Italian citizens, but that has laid the premises so that in this Document and with this maneuver today we can aim to relaunch growth and not simply reaffirm the continuation of these sacrifices. In this regard, I had insisted very much (and I do so in this reply too), as well as on the macro-economic policy data, on the data contained in Section 3 of the DEF. The interventions and structural measures that want to accompany our country and the economic structure of our economy through reforms and changes that can affect potential income in the short, medium and long term are of the utmost importance because they will make possible this link between macroeconomic and structural developments, but above all because the commitment to carry on these documents will be fundamental, in relation to the procedure of the European semester, in order to obtain these margins in terms of time and mode of adjustment for us more favorable because more compatible with the path of growth. I would like to point out that, if these commitments were not met, the Commission will consider this failure to implement it as a negative factor, which would justify the start of an excessive deficit procedure and therefore have to impose a number of sanctions that would not only cancel out the benefits that we could gain, but would add a number of costs to the adjustment. I simply say this to stress that, by approving this DEF, we are committed, even as a Parliament, to ensuring that these reforms are carried out quickly and rapidly. Of course, the path is challenging, because we know that we are in the middle of a legislature that wants to make sense of the next half precisely in the light of the implementation of this reform process. In conclusion, I would simply like to stress three points which I believe have emerged from the speeches, which I had already made, but I would like to do so more effectively in the course of this reply. In particular, three general objectives of this reform plan and this set of reforms are identified. The first point concerns the possibility of changing, improving, the context in which these structural changes will take place in some way and, above all, the investments that I think we have all remembered as the real driving force behind this possible growth that is taking place. A first important fact, therefore, is this, remembering that if we succeed in implementing this type of change, it will also be easier, and therefore it will also be much more profitable, to combine these changes, this possibility to improve the environment of investments at home with the so-called Investment Plan for Europe, or Juncker plan, which will represent another opportunity of great interest to our country. The second point, which has been reiterated by many, is the need to take measures as far as possible to strengthen the intermediation of the credit markets in Italy, and in this regard I stress that there is the need, as has been said, to intervene with regard to the balance sheets of the Italian banks and the weight that today is exercised in some way through the so-called deteriorated loans. I would stress, however, that it is also important to continue the action that the Government has begun to develop those so-called non-bank channels of financing the real economy, which are important for Europe in general, so that there is an objective of creating an integrated capital market at European level, but they are particularly important in Italy because the dependence of our production system on the banking system, as we know, exceeds Europe's average dependence. The third and last point that has been mentioned is the need to strengthen the instruments and measures to support and intervene in favour of the weakest sections of the population, in some way implementing social policies against poverty and social exclusion. I believe that this is something that needs to be taken up again, which I pointed out in my report, but which interests me in this reply to resume and in some way list together with the other two as a great, important objective that can be pursued in this path of growth development, because we are all convinced that growth in the meantime will make sense because it will first create employment and above all it will be an inclusive growth compared instead to phenomena of growth of the past that, as we know, have too favored some segments of the economic system and of the population, to the detriment of others who, especially in these years of crisis, have borne the greatest costs. Finally, I would like to thank all those who have spoken for the contributions they have made. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u85	As the minority rapporteur, Senator Bulgarelli, does not intend to speak in her reply, I have the right to speak to the Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Dr Morando, to whom I would like to point out which of the motions for resolutions she intends to accept on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u86	Mr President, first of all, I would like to apologise to Senator Fornaro, who has legitimately felt that during his speech I was dealing with something else, because I was calling. This is the only occasion on which this has happened since 9.30 a.m. this morning. In any case, I apologise and I want to assure Senator Fornaro that (even though this happened randomly) the call concerned the part of the motion for a resolution concerning the budgets of local self-governments. I do not think I reveal a secret at all if I say that the Government is familiar with the motion for a majority resolution some time before it is officially presented. Mr President, although it is not foreseen anywhere that this can happen, I hope that it is not yet prohibited.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u87	Let's pretend we didn't hear that.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u88	[[Laughter.]] Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. Having said that, and I apologise, I would like to make a few specific comments, thanking all those who have spoken: in particular, of course, the rapporteurs, both by majority and minority. I would like to thank the majority rapporteur for having, in my opinion, very timely summed up the debate that has taken place in the Budget Commission, which is not always the case on these occasions and which I particularly welcome. The first element I want to deal with is what concerns the alleged - or real, depending on the point of view - optimism of the macroeconomic forecasts based on the Economic and Financial Document. This is the first issue I want to deal with for logical reasons. If the credibility objections that I have heard above the macroeconomic forecasts were justified, for absolutely obvious reasons, the entire Economic and Financial Document would be affected by its credibility. I quote literally the expressions contained, for example, in the minority report of the 5 Star Movement Group: At least disproportionately optimistic growth scenarios, if not mistaken. Senator Tosato, in an intervention that in my opinion has raised many real problems and that we will have to deal with, said on this point that the DEF has no connection with reality. No connection: therefore, a very clear judgment. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let me make one point which seems very important to me and which, to my surprise, is not in practice highlighted by almost anyone at this stage; some senators have pointed this out in today's debate, and I thank them for that. For the first time in a perfectly determined and credible way, even if it has already happened last year, macroeconomic forecasts of trend trends and policy developments, based on the Economic and Financial Document, have been the subject of the attention of the newly established and today, at last (I stress) perfectly able to function Parliamentary Budget Office. At last, after dozens of controversy exactly on this point, this is a body in my opinion perfectly capable of developing economic analyses that have very significant technical and scientific foundation, which represents an element of verification of the reliability of the macroeconomic forecasts put at the head of the DEF by the Government through a process based on the construction of a judgment of reliability. It is determined through the evaluation of the forecasts of a panel of subjects of national and international dimension, completely autonomous from the Government. I want to quote them because they are the predictions of ISTAT, CER, Prometeia and REF research. I would also add the institutions which, in the process of the European Semester, have an important role to play in their economic assessments and analyses. I am talking about the forecasts of the European Commission, the OECD, the International Monetary Fund, as well as the Bank of Italy, which has always been advising Parliament at this stage. I stress this because it is the first time. Of course, we can continue to argue over too optimistic or pessimistic forecasts, as the case may be, taken up by the Government on the basis of the programming documents, but I think that Parliament should no longer do as it did in recent years. It should take note to assess critically or to standardise and assess positively the evaluations of the Parliamentary Budget Office, otherwise I sincerely do not understand why we have set up this body. Being one of those who, with too old parliamentary seniority, has fought hard in the last 20 years to finally have it (and has done so either in the majority or in the opposition), now that there is and is able to provide its assessments, I believe we must take them on the basis of the parliamentary debate, and then make the independent assessments that individual Members and Groups will be able to develop. The government, for example, on some of the evaluations of the Parliamentary Budget Office has made clear guidelines in some cases even significantly different, but this is how the tone and - I would almost say - the technical-analytic bases of political confrontation rise and do not go down. So, frankly, I would stress the need to enhance this innovation. With regard to optimism or pessimism of the forecasts - I say this because on this point the minority report presented contains, in my opinion, an element that is simply not technically founded - the Parliamentary Bureau, in the report presented officially in Parliament, made an assessment of both trend and programmatic frameworks; therefore, it is not true that there is no lack of programmatic validation, as it is written in the minority report presented by the 5 Star Movement. In that validation activity there is an exercise that I consider to be particularly relevant of the Parliamentary Bureau of Budget, which subjected the forecasts to a stress linked to the worsening or further improvement of the so-called exogenous factors that affect the forecasts of growth of the product in Italy at this time. You know what the exogenous factors are. They are monetary policy (so we sum up all the choices made by the European Central Bank), and the effects it is having in the euro-dollar exchange rate (at this moment, very favourable to European exports and certainly very favourable to Italian exports) and the development of oil prices. The forecasts have been stressed, assuming what would happen to the product, if these trends were to become more positive (from our point of view), i.e. with an even lower oil price, with a parity between the euro and the dollar and a monetary policy that confirms itself for a long time ultra-expanding; and then assuming what would happen to the product, if instead the opposite hypothesis were assumed, with the rapid and sudden increase of the price of the oil and with the return of the euro-dollar ratio at the level of 1.30, as was basically long ago. Well, from these assumptions emerges a fact of enormous political importance, which perfectly confirms the assumption from which the majority report originated in today's debate and which is very important: assuming both assumptions, it is seen that the effects in the short term of these exogenous factors are relevant on the growth assumptions. Therefore, the growth forecasts ‐ resumé or recovery ‐ which today are already a description of the present, are very related to the exogenous factors, but that same exercise shows that, within a short time, the effect of these exogenous factors is reduced to zero. It would be reduced to zero even in the best possible way from our point of view, which has been applied by the study of the Parliamentary Budget Office. This has very significant consequences. Apparently it is a technical discourse, but in reality it is the basis of a political reasoning, which I find fundamental at this moment. Attention: it is true that the recovery, today, is largely influenced by exogenous factors, but either we are able, within a short time, to support domestic demand, in its two components of consumption and investment, and therefore, always in a very short time, to realize the entire framework of structural reforms provided for by the National Reform Programme, or within a short time the exogenous elements will exhaust their function, even if they have to become more positive (from our point of view). And the Italian gross domestic product will return not to grow or to grow at a level of almost stagnation. This leads to the consequences of an extraordinary political orientation. [[Applause from Senator Ferrara]] We cannot in any way lull over the relative tranquility determined by the current film, which is graceful and largely based on exogenous factors. Either we are able, by obeying our own guidelines - in reality widely shared, beyond the tone of the debate on this or that aspect - to carry out structural reforms and to support aggregate domestic demand, in the components of consumption and investment, or we will not be able to transform the recovery into an ongoing, still graceful, stable and lasting growth. Of course, I am referring to growth from an advanced industrial country and not from a developing country. We know, in fact, that the rate of potential growth in advanced industrial countries is tending to be lower than those, under certain conditions, of countries in initial momentum. This leads us to further development. Of course, we have a complex structural reform plan, on which I do not return, but which is analytically illustrated in the National Reform Programme and in the Economic and Financial Document itself. We must know, however, that the same possibility of calling for the flexibility clause, which is linked this time not to economic developments but to the implementation of structural reforms, is linked - organically and on the basis of European rules - to the fact that the reforms are not announced, but are being approved and being implemented. This is very challenging for the government, and in particular for that part of the reforms that have taken the role of delegated laws and for that part of the reforms that, in order to really implement itself, needs implementing decrees of various qualities and nature. The Government must accelerate its capacity to move from the definition of the rule in Parliament with the mechanism of delegation to the implementation phase. Otherwise, the flexibility clause we call for in the name of reforms cannot be invoked for a long time, because we will not have achieved that stage of implementation which is a condition for the full practicability of that clause. Those who say that we are violating European rules do not know European rules. It is clear in the European rules that reforms must not only be announced, but must be approved and being implemented, and that the conditions for "favor" must not be more favourable than the normal rule laid down at European level. This is the first consideration that comes from that reasoning. The second point concerns a specific component of aggregate demand that we need to raise, i.e. investment. Of course, there is public investment and, after years, in the Economic and Financial Document they point to a slight reversal of the trend which - in my opinion - should be progressively implemented, and it will have to be if we want stable and lasting growth. Of course, however, there is no need to be a great expert on these things to know that the fundamental component of investment that can turn film into growth is private investment. And I repeat, of course. In order for private investment to grow, we need to create two conditions which, in part, have been created and partly not. Because of the counter-centric nature of the financing of Italian companies, in particular, and of continental Europe (it is greater that of Italians), we need to get out of a credit quota, from a difficulty of access to credit that arises from the excessive level of suffering that has affected and affects the Italian banks. Why the excessive level? Because gross domestic product in Italy, in the last six or seven years, has fallen by almost ten points and because the average per capita income has fallen by more than ten points. This means, of course, that companies working for the internal market, and not for the foreign market, face a reduced demand, on average, by 10%. Of course they suffered. And if they have suffered, the companies have therefore called into question the normal repayment of the claims they had with the banks. This determines the raising of the level of suffering, which, however, calls for the raising of the capital requirements of banks, which must continually seek resources to raise those capital requirements and comply with supervisory requirements. The result is that when the companies that most need to support growth and to make investments and those that work for the internal market (the others have adequate resources) go to the bank, it is hard to give them the money. And this is not because bankers are bad, as I hear in TV talk shows. The bankers, who will also be bad, want to be bankers and, therefore, want to give money possibly by making them pay so much. And now they can't do much, because the interest rate system is very low. If they do not give funding, it is because there is a problem, which is the excess of suffering. So there is a problem of initiative on this side. Under market rules and not by means of mechanisms that raise the problem of state aid (the European dimension does not make us do so), we must make urgent action on the issue of deteriorated loans. If we do not reduce that level of suffering, it will be difficult for the European Central Bank's ultra-expanding monetary policy, including quantitative easing, to have an effect on effective credit to companies working for the internal market. The second condition - which has just been mentioned by the rapporteur in his reply and I want to take it up again - concerns the fact that, having said that, we must, however, reduce the counter-centric nature of the debt of companies. We must ensure that companies can go to the capital market, but they are too small to do so according to the logic of the stock exchange. Let us hope that more will be done and that the stock exchange will develop. And on that we agree, but the facts of reality clearly say that from there it can come a lot, but not everything. We need to build a system of rules whereby the savings of households and institutional investors can turn to the debt of companies, allowing them access to the capital market directly. How do you do that? In general terms, the Italian Parliament and the Government - not this, but the previous ones - have already given the answer, inventing the mechanism of the so-called minibonds. It is a mechanism that is working, but it needs to get better intertwined with the mechanism of the guarantee fund, which has worked well in recent years but which needs to be supported by new resources. Trust, the National Guarantee Fund and the acceleration of the minibond process: at that point even SMEs working for the internal market, but they are able to access the capital market themselves, can have the capital to make those investments without which we do not support aggregate demand and, in a short time, we find ourselves with the filming in progress that again falls to levels almost stagnant, as demonstrated - I tried to recall - the elaboration of the Parliamentary Bureau of the budget and the valuable report that was presented this morning. I make one final point on time and then I say on the resolutions, so - I see objectively - not to surprise the audience. With regard to fiscal pressure, I would like to take up what the rapporteur said: either we always take the reference to the policy objective, or we always take - of course, we cannot rule out an in-depth debate - the trend. But to use the trend data to say that the government plans a level of tax pressure that is not that programmatic but that tendency, and vice versa, produces only confusion and controversy that I believe, even from the point of view of oppositions, is absolutely useless. The tax burden in Italy, particularly on labour and business, is very high - all international comparisons say so - and the total tax burden, which is not only that on labour and businesses but on the whole of the tax bases present, is relatively high in international comparisons and finances an equally high public expenditure in international comparisons. What emerges in this case from the very useful remarks made by the hearings and the debate that we developed in the Budget Committees just yesterday? There is a component of the tax burden that we have never carefully assessed, which stems from the use of ISTAT-SEC 2010 systems instead of ESA 95. For the past two years, the figure for incentives for renewable energy, collected in bills on taxpayers for the payment of the energy service, companies and families that are, while not before it entered, now enters the tax burden. This figure led in 2013, between the use of the ESA 95 method and the use of the ESA 2010 method, to the emergence of 15.6 billion, i.e. an additional tax burden product point. Of course this analysis is correct, because that figure is in fact absolutely accident on the availability of expenditure and income of both households and businesses, because through the electricity bill they actually pay a tax. It may be right or wrong, but for the first time - as far as I know - a component of the tax burden that used to be in the shadows emerges in an acclaimed manner. So much so that in the House and Senate Budget Commissions - I can testify on the basis of my too long experience - it has always been said that we could not express contrary opinions under Article 81 on the increase in the levy in the bill, because they did not enter the public budget and the tax burden, but they were charged for tariffs. What should we conclude from this seemingly technical thing? We must conclude that, on the level of the programmatic tax burden, the data presented in the report are valid, which testify that, in the government's programmatic objective, the tax burden, in particular in the enterprise-work component (i.e. the one that acts on the enterprise-work), is being reduced. We can of course say - and, if you like, I would add that I agree - that this reduction is not yet sufficient. We cannot say, however, that there is an increase, because this is contrary to the numbers we have been given and that we are analyzing. But above all, this story tells us that there are components of the trend tax pressure (the one that rightly alarmed everyone) that it is possible to call into question, with actions that do not necessarily have to do with the IRPEF, VAT or the IMU, that is the fundamental taxes to which we usually refer. In particular, attention: the trend tax burden incorporates the full application of the safeguard clauses, and does so correctly from a technical point of view. In fact, if I have the safeguard clauses in the current legislation, I have to rely on the tax burden, as the DEF does, to make the whole revenue determined by the safeguard clauses. But in the programmatic it is clearly stated that the Government intends to annihilate the safeguard clauses both in 2016, and, for that added, in 2017. This is where it detects the difference between the trend and the programmatic. I would add that I hope that, during this 2015 - we are working on it - they will succeed in obtaining a classification of the expenditure relative to the 80 euros (equal to 10 billion) more appropriate to reality. Contrary to what is said, the reason for which expenditure for the 80 euros is fully accounted for at the highest expense is not what I hear, but it is exactly as follows: because there is a component of that intervention to reduce the tax burden which takes the form of a positive bonus (paid to those workers who receive the 80 euros per month, who are partially incompetent, but not totally, because the totally incapients do not take this figure), this triggers the Eurostat rule. It says that if a reduction in the tax burden is transformed, even for a marginal component, into a cheque, the whole transaction takes the form of an increase in expenditure instead of a reduction in revenue. I think that there are technically applicable solutions to ensure that the vast majority of the 10 billion are taken into account as it should be, i.e. in reducing the tax burden. Finally, Mr President, also on the basis of the arguments I have tried to develop during my speech - already too long, I know - I declare the Government's intention to accept the motion for a resolution No 5, tabled by the majority supporting the Government. With reference to it, I would like to add, addressing Senator D'Alì in a friendly and confrontational tone, that we have shared the demands and the accents with respect to the DEF contained in that proposal, which we accept exactly because they correspond to the general political orientation of the Government, and in that sense we intend to move. On the other motions for resolutions the Government's opinion is against, not without adding that there is still a graduation in the negative judgment on them. There are some - for example - that, in the device, at the first point, commit the Government to raising debt to 3%, without adding anything else. The Government does not intend to accept such commitments. Then there are other commitments, some of which are also acceptable, but since everything is conditioned by the acceptance of that first point, we cannot accept. There are other motions for resolutions, such as No 1, tabled by the Group of the North Legacy, which to a large extent contain references to issues which, as you will see - or have already seen - are also dealt with in the motion for a majority resolution, with solutions which certainly appear to be unsatisfactory to the League Group. I say this just to point out that it is not - in my opinion - the issue of the North League's motion for a resolution in particular, of issues which I regard as totally unrelated to the present approach and of which the motion for a resolution by the majority is expressed. It is clear that, while in one case it is said to review the affair of the agricultural IMU while maintaining the tax, in the other case it is said that the objective is to overcome it. Of course, we do not agree with the aim of overcoming it, but the fact of revising it is largely shared and also included in the majority motion for a resolution. This is to say that, in reality, it is not entirely true what Senator Uras said during the debate in the Commission, when he stated that the Government is physically participating in the debate, but with its head, heart and its initiatives is, however, somewhere else and always comes home with the same orientation as it comes to the meetings. This - I repeat - is not entirely true. As far as this debate is concerned, I believe I have been hearing - not only that I have been physically present - and I am, therefore, able to make some assessments of interest. Similarly - and I say this in relation to the motion for a resolution, as well as the intervention made by Senator Bonfrisco - for motion for resolution No 6, tabled by the Group of Forza Italia: we do not agree with the whole proposal, while the Government naturally agrees that the revision, simplification for the citizen, the reorganization and the finally truly autonomous and federalist set-up of the local taxation on buildings should take place without any additional tax burden on the real estate. It is no coincidence that this indication is also included in the majority motion for a resolution. Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u89	The Government has therefore declared that it accepts motion for a resolution No 5. It is therefore now time for one hour to table any amendments to this proposal. I therefore suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 1.51 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) Let's resume our work. I note that on motion for resolution No 5, tabled by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller and accepted by the Government pursuant to Rule 125-a (4) of the Rules of Procedure, some amendments have been tabled, the texts of which are distributed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u92	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I begin my explanation of vote by saying: good Renzi! Very good, because actually as far as communicative skills gives lessons to everyone. He managed to divert attention to the DEF by talking about the treasure, the famous treasure that, however - colleagues - is not there, because it refers only to percentage variations. And that simply means more debt; debt that - I remember - has increased by 3.3 billion compared to February and January, bringing the level of our public debt to 2,169 billion, the maximum reached to date. And especially how? On the shoulders of others. Renzi announces, during this campaign period, the existence of the treasure, saying that he will do this and will do that. But, by chance, several more authoritative bodies than I myself have pointed out that we should be more cautious and wait to verify that there is actually this treasure. This is especially true in view of Renzi's attitude towards local authorities. There is a lot of talk about cuts in everything, local authorities and central spending. But if we go to observe the percentages, we find that between 2011 and 2015 local authorities, namely municipalities, provinces and regions, have been cut as much as 25 billion. Indeed, this may lead to the risk that local authorities will no longer have resources, that they will increase the tax burden on citizens at local level or that essential services will be reduced. The tax burden at local level, as established by ISTAT, has increased from 27 to 44 percent in terms of revenue. That's crazy figures. I repeat, it's good to be nice at the expense of others. The regions have been cut by 5%, the Provinces to 10%, the Municipalities to 2%, to which 38 percent are added in previous years. What about the central administration? The ministries that govern Renzi? That's only 1%. If they'd played their part, we'd have another 3 and a half billion today. But no, rather than setting a good example, they are allowed to do so. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In my home, they have always taught me that, before demanding from others, we must set a good example. Let's move on to growth. There is a growth of 0.7%, due to international factors such as the fall in oil prices, exchange rates and interest rates. It is right, however, that the Parliamentary Budget Office, which has been referred to here in view of its independence, supports the existence of certain risks. It is true that it has validated the trend value, but it has also reminded us of the risks involved. Just think of what happened 10 days ago when, due to the problem of Greece, the rates rose slightly and consequently all the values have changed. But Renzi is good. You heard him when he announced a 21 billion tax cut. Yes, but he put them with the law of stability. And then, on taxes he announced the decrease in the tax burden. But let's remember - just see it in the DEF - that the tax burden in 2014 was 43.5%, in 2015 is confirmed to 43.5%, but in 2016 it goes up to 44.1 percent. It's increased! So much for ESA 95 or 2010. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Turning then to the chapter of the reforms, here too the announcements were remarkable. There have been announcements to more I can not like - for example - in the matter of reform of the taxation of the house. But how many times, in these two or three years, we have seen that such impositions continue to change from year to year and citizens no longer even know what they have to pay and, moreover, are constantly increasing. There is talk of aid to businesses, but in February the credit granted to businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which in February saw a further decrease of 3%. With regard to simplifications, we talked about the 730 precompiled: here too there has been an announcement, and there has been talk of a upheaval. Try, however, to go make the 730 precompiled. Perhaps you have incurred health expenses, you have the interests of the mortgage of the house you have purchased and, therefore, you have to address an accountant or a CAF, who will charge you much more than last year, because the government wanted more guarantees and increases the insurance of these bodies. Who's paying? Us. The issue of investment is very important for our growth, it is very important, but here too we are talking about the Juncker plan, the famous plan that provides 315 billion. At the moment, however, there are 16 of them and they are taken from European funds already earmarked for the financing of enterprises and - as a matter of fact - there is a particularity. While before there was a guarantee that these funds were given to small and medium-sized enterprises that reach 250 employees, which are the peculiarity of our productive fabric [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] What did they do? They have also included companies that reach 3,000 employees, which are a typical reality in Germany. This is a clause that Germany wanted and, in your opinion, to whom will this investment go? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Then there is the famous theme of the Structural Funds. I would remind you that, in the Budget Committee, Minister Trigilia told us not to worry because we would use all the funds made available by 2015 and there were already plans. He didn't do anything. Then came former Undersecretary Delrio, now Minister, to tell us that we have the goals and we do it. But by 2015 will we be able to use them? In my opinion, we will have to give them back to Europe, to the famous and much praised Europe. Then there is the decontribution for companies. Beautiful! The contributions to the hirer are reduced. But if the funds are not enough, a clause provides that the contribution of all companies will increase: they give themselves on the one hand and take them off the other. There is also talk of increased recruitment, but ISTAT says unemployment is rising. It is likely that recruitment data refer to a simple contractual change. Turning to agriculture, since there is Expo on agri-food, it must be said that this too is a fundamental economic factor for our country. But many tax interventions have led the agricultural sector to have to pay one billion more taxes: TASI on rural buildings, IMU on agricultural and mountain land [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , revaluation of dominical annuities. Finally, we come to EUR 80. Here too it has been said that they are used to increase domestic demand. It is true that domestic demand needs to increase, but what are the effects? As the Parliamentary Budget Office has actually certified here too, the government's forecast of the dynamics of household consumption is optimistic. The DEF talks about the programmatic GDP and trend; the programmatic one includes the prediction of the effects of the reforms, but it is equal to the trend. Therefore, it means that the impact of the reforms is zero. Bravo, Renzi, to tell the citizens about the world of dreams. It's a bit like the baby in the park making soap bubbles, and this DEF is exactly this: just soap bubbles. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u95	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). Madam President, it should be remembered that what was once the DPEF, that is - as Martino described it in the period 2006-2008 - "Documentation of promises and fairy tales," we have transformed, with a novation to the accounting law, into DEF. And until recently we could say that it had remained a document of economies and fairy tales, but today we can say that it is becoming a document of economies and futility. I am speaking of futility, because the secondary intention contained in the SPEF compared to the primary one, which is fortunately overtaken today, which was to establish the maximum debt which was then to be reported within Article 1 of the Finance Act, gave this House the opportunity to talk about economics and economic policy. Evidently, I have come to an age when I begin to look too much into the past and little into the future. I, however, have been used to hearing debates of law in this House that have seen the participation of colleagues to whom I am honoured to be close, such as Calvi, Zanon, Valentino, Professor Ziccone and Roberto Centaro, that is, all people who knew how to dislike justice. Similarly, when we talked about constitutional reforms we had people like Bassanini - I did not get the attention of the President even quoting Bassanini - Giuliano Amato and Villon. There was talk in such a way that attention came to the things said not only by the Assembly, but also by the country. Today, however, on an occasion like that which is the responsibility of Parliament and therefore of the country, through the representation that with the vote gives Parliament itself to speak of the economy - let me apologise to my colleagues for the presumption and eagerness of my speech - until the intervention of President Morando we did not talk about the economy. This country, on the other hand, would need to talk about the economy, because it would be enough to question how a devaluation of 30% of the national currency - because the euro is a national currency - is leading to an increase in GDP for this year by not more than 0.6-0.7% and for next year by 1.5%. In all the debates, there was and still is today that, in normal countries, a devaluation of 10% of the currency almost automatically leads to an increase of 1% of GDP. So, if in Italy with a devaluation of 30 percent we do not mature any gain, it means that something is not right. It means that we should talk about economic policy and not about voting on Italicum or constitutional reforms, which we do not eat every day. What we need is what President Morando has said, namely those structural reforms that are required by the international sector and by Europe, which - as Vice-Minister Morando says - must not be drawn up but implemented. Of this the country does not speak in total disattention. And this is the cultural problem of the country: the fact that we do not have a sediment of notions that leads us to understand that today the problem is not a legislature that lasts until 2016, 2017 or 2018; it is not to give the vote of confidence to a law like Italicum, which we know is the denial of the democratic progress of the country. Today the problem is to understand why the country, despite a devaluation of 30% does not go on. COMPAGNONE (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). Bravo! FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). If exogenous factors are absorbed within 24 months, this means that, despite this 0.6 percent improvement (which next year is expected to rise to 1.7 percent) and despite a devaluation of 30 percent, we will be in a worse condition than today. But let's think about another point. Why was the devaluation of 30% only made when the strong countries of the European Union allowed it and not when Italy had already claimed that it needed it? Because Italy is not one of the strong countries of the European Union. And there are two ways to be strong: either you are strong with force and, therefore, with the ability to intervene and with militarism (but this is a not reprobable historical notion), or you are strong with the crate. But to be strong with the crate, you have to be an advanced country. And it is not possible to base economic progress only on what we clearly have on every side, and probably with guilt if not crime, assessed as positive of the country, that is, the manufacturing sector, our manufacturing capacity. Today, with the manufacturing capacity that is proposed at the gates of the international economy through Korea, India and developing countries, it is not on this sector that we must base our ability to recover strength through the cash. Our effort must be to understand, through a political debate, what are the assets on which to base the political intervention of the Government so that this can be transformed into force for the country. Therefore, allow me to say to Deputy Minister Morando that for this purpose there is no need for a list, to which he referred, congratulating the majority, on the changes and progress; there is no need for the reforms of the school, which give so much satisfaction to President Renzi who, coming to the House for the first time, said that the first area to which he would address was a new school and new schools. It is not just the labour market, the tax system and the public administration that we need. We do not need this list, but the need is to give strength to those institutions which today, in the advanced society, cannot be productive but must be financial. It is the minibond process; it is the process of the only large industry that remains in Italy after losing the mechanical and chemical ones. It is the finance industry, which has had no support because, through a policy of the tax pressure, it has not given rise to that the saving, the only real great capacity, was privileged and encouraged to be invested in order to provide an expansion of the economy, true and only possible foundation to research and the creation of a development. In this, and only in this sense should we proceed. And what we're sorry about, which I'm sorry about, is that the only representative of the government who's talking about it today is Deputy Minister Morando. And this must make us understand some things about this Government that, in its inattention, has produced a Document that, at this point, is incapable and ineffective to produce movements, to mature sensitivity, to give rise to a debate for the acquisition of a maturation on the real need for economic change and the transformation of the process of economic maturation of the Country. I repeat, the only one who is talking about it today is the exponent who sits on the benches of the government to represent him. The total inattention of this majority and of the Government which issued it discourages us and confirms us that it is impossible to vote in favour of the Document and the resolution of the proposed majority to which the Government gave a favourable opinion. [[Applause from Senator Comrade.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u98	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, it is with conviction that the Group for the Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution No 5 tabled by the majority, which approves the Economic and Financial Document. This conviction is supported by the presence of a macroeconomic framework that is finally more favourable, which has been extensively illustrated by the rapporteur and Deputy Minister Morando. It is a confirmation that the measures taken in the last period are giving the expected results and that it is possible to seize some opportunities to promote real growth. To be clear, with these statements we do not hide the problems that still prevent our economy from starting a sustained phase of growth, but rather we want to reiterate and share what is contained in the premise to the DEF that we have left behind a dramatic situation, an economy in recession and that we are ready to restart, to change gear, so that in order to talk about real economic recovery, growth, recovery and competitiveness we need to wait for the effects that will actually produce the reforms put in place by the Government and those in the process of implementation. These are important reforms on which not only the Government, but also the entire Parliament, in our opinion, are playing their credibility at national and European level. It will be the implementation of these reforms that, by renewing our institutional, administrative, social and fiscal framework, will create the conditions for greater flexibility, as provided for in the 1997 regulation and not the other day. Finally, we are dealing with a Commission that can interpret in a more intelligent way the rules that we have given ourselves since entering the euro. This is an opportunity not to be missed if we want the word "growth" to appear in the next DEF in full title. The new direction of the European Commission offers additional opportunities for increasing employment by opting for a choice that is a break from the past and that has seen only one policy: austerity policy. The three guidelines on which the Commission's programme is based (tax responsibility, investment policy and structural reforms) represent an important occasion for our country too and above all. In this context, the initiatives contained in the Juncker Plan, which ultimately led to the establishment of the European Fund for Strategic Investments, as well as the so-called quantitative easing, initiated by Mario Draghi and the European Central Bank, should be taken into account. If we move in the wake of the Commission and the European Central Bank itself, which also makes various instruments available to us in the real economy, and implement the programme of reforms identified by the Government, we will be able to speed up the process of growth effectively and above all with a relapse into the economy of people, families and businesses. As reported by an important rating agency, the economic potential of our country is high and our rating could improve if the prospects supported and induced by the ongoing reform process recorded a real strengthening of the real economy. But in order to give solidity and perspective to growth, in addition to the called structural reforms, as is also noted in the DEF, we believe it is important to relaunch, above all, public and private investment, a fundamental step in stimulating domestic aggregate demand. In order to make a change and make a stable and substantial contribution, however, we should grow by 3% of GDP, as some say, and this is the challenge we face in the coming years. However, we also have at our disposal EUR 13.6 billion, which can be used, as the new Minister of Infrastructure said, by starting new investments or by renewing and realising those planned. In this regard, I would like to mention in particular the multimodal corridors and above all - with regard to a work that is very dear to our territory and which has been reiterated in the law of stability - the continuation of the Brenner tunnel and its access routes. This will be crucial to linking the North and the South of Europe: thanks to these infrastructures we can grow and restore prospects for the economy. So let us consider this as a transitional period, in which the measures approved so far have not yet been fully implemented: I am thinking in particular of some of the measures contained in the Stability Act for 2015 and we hope that they will be extended to the following years, such as the decontribution for companies taking on permanent employment and the elimination of labour costs from the IRAP tax base, which, together with the current regulations contained in the jobs act, are beginning to bear fruit; just read today's news agencies. There is no doubt that the loss of precarious employment will also have a positive impact on investment, in particular on the construction sector and on the real estate market, which will greatly help this fundamental sector of the national economy. It will be especially important that the implementation decrees of the jobs act are issued according to the timetable set out in the national reform programme and it will be equally important that we do not remain imprisoned for too long in the links of a certain bureaucracy. I am not referring to all the bureaucracy, but certainly to a certain bureaucracy, which is often synonymous with impediment. That is why we believe it is essential, indeed strategic, to approve as soon as possible the reform of the public administration, which in our opinion will allow us to cut unnecessary snares and snares and, above all, to intervene on the so-called unnecessary and unproductive expenditures. To give certainty in the procedures and in the times means to offer the necessary guarantees to all those who intend to invest in our country. A more efficient public administration at the real service of businesses and citizens will be the backbone of the new country system. For the same reasons, we believe that the structural reforms already undertaken and the new initiatives, which will also have an impact on debt growth and sustainability, are necessary. I refer in particular to those concerning civil justice and the so-called fiscal delegation, which will be strategic, as it will be definitively declined by the Ministry. Finally, I would also like to mention the so-called treasure, which is expected to be due to the better performance of GDP. In these days we have heard a number of proposals, some of which are very imaginative and which have also been discussed during the hearings that have taken place in these days in the Commissions. That is why we have listened very carefully to the real intentions of the Government regarding its use. The Minister's statements, today reiterated by the Deputy Minister, have given the precise indication that it will be used for measures with temporary budgetary effects, in line with the reform process. We consider it reasonable and believe that this means better defining it with consistent and flexible choices, which should consolidate the recovery. Therefore, in our opinion, these resources could be channelled towards productive activities that can help expanding sectors: I am referring, in particular, to investment in so-called broadband, to strategic sectors such as agriculture in the year of the Expo, perhaps providing for a greater extension of the IMU exemption, I am also referring to the idea of banking suffering, through state aid, according to the possibilities allowed by European regulations, since our system was not financed at the beginning of the crisis of the banks and at this time such intervention could be useful to restart credit policies. Of course, these are measures which, at this point, will facilitate recovery. Finally, let me mention something that is particularly important to us and that is also reiterated in the DEF: I am referring to the question of finally making a real contrast to the phenomenon of tax evasion and avoidance. In fact, the measures put in place to date by the Government and those foreseen in the delegation are aimed at creating a fairer, more transparent, simplified and oriented system, precisely, to growth. Of course, there are still a few pieces missing to complete it, but we want an acceleration of the path aimed at obtaining, finally, a system characterized by certainty, stability, reduction and simplification of tax obligations. We therefore consider these three reforms and these three elements to be essential, namely the tax system, the labour system and the civil justice system. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator. FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). These are three reforms that, in the immediate future, can produce a result. Therefore, as I said in the preamble, we will vote in favour of resolution No 5, proposed by the majority. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u101	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Minister Morando, they were suggesting his name to me, but I will see you a few hours a week in the Commission, so we have been seeing two people for some time. Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. We spend long periods together. URAS (Misto-SEL). It is true that I have also said in the Commission that what is worrying is that the debate we are having may not be fully used, indeed, in some cases, totally neglected by the Government. I said that in relation to a point relating to this document. This is a very comprehensive document: more than 1,000 pages, which we - Parliament - must examine. Think of what it could mean for a citizen who had the curiosity to follow the parliamentary work and understand what is spoken and what is decided, to have to consider a Document, even very technical, of over 1,000 pages and try to understand what is the economic programming that the Government intends to do to revive, to make rebirth (this is a term that I like more than any other) the Italian economy, to take it out of the crisis and give a perspective of social and civil development to our country. Why did I say that? Nor do I want to use much time to analyse the reasons why we are thinking of 0.7% growth rather than 0.5 growth, or to make an in-depth analysis of the impact of each of the macroeconomic elements in the next three years. Rather, I went to look for the idea that was proposed by the Government within the Document, not if we want to grow, because we all want it all we say we want to grow, but what growth it is about. Not generically, but punctually. I went to look within the full-bodied Document, for example, for a full-bodied strategy to overcome an imbalance that we drag - alas - from the unity of Italy onward between the south and north of the country. I went to look for myself, within this full-bodied Document, what idea we had of the stimulus to the creation of a good economy towards the citizens, of those who then transform themselves or are already entrepreneurs, of those who, on the other hand, carry out an activity of dependent work, of those who possibly have capital to invest in economic activity. I must say, once again, that I did not find in this very full-bodied Document an idea directly and immediately appreciable. That is my explanation of vote against. Everyone speaks of innovation and research: we must do research, innovation, improve the product, the process of product realization. I say: let's face one of the areas in which this could be a perspective for our country, for example the environmental one. The environment is not an annoyance, as some of the many builders, even speculators, think, have produced this country: one of the many who have ruined some coast rather than defaced or made unviable some cities; one of the many who may have attacked a historical center of great cultural value. No. We think that the Beijing marathon runs with the mask because you cannot breathe because of a hood of beastly pollution; we think that in our cities sometimes you have to adopt the system of alternate plates. We think that we have large parts of territory that have been devastated from the environmental point of view by the presence of large industrial plants: one on all, of which we have also dealt recently, in Taranto, rather than, as happened elsewhere, even recently, in Porto Torres, where the water that drinks is polluted. That is a great area of economic activity. Great research, great studies, great techniques of intervention, great technologies, new technologies you can safely study and you can invest in this area because the whole world will need it; because one of the main themes will be how to save the Planet and therefore ourselves. We then start from the Mezzogiorno to do this rather than to effectively counter the hydrogeological failure, through the realization of works that are not only consolidation, but prevention of failures that are created, for example, through a wild and absolutely useless edification. Or think about how to use all the private and public building that has been realized and remains empty. In this regard I suggest you come to my Region: there are entire deserted villages on the coast of Sardinia that no longer fill even in the warmest two months of the year, July and August. Then let's make an effort, so that we feel the need for a government initiative to plan growth through precise and defined economic activities, where we also stimulate private investment, where we never leave anyone behind and where to achieve a rebalancing within our country. The former Head of State, President Napolitano, yesterday made a speech, saying that there is a need for a new world order and that the great freedom that we all expected as a driving force of the economy and civil development of the world did not exist after 1989. He recalled the need to reflect on this and carried out his reasoning on the issue of immigration, that is, the flight and abandonment of large and unused territories, which are polluted daily by conflicts, on the social and human relations level, but also on the environmental level, which make themselves and will become unavailable in time for the economy of the world and will be impossible - I say it to everyone - to help them in the place where they live, because that place is making themselves unviable. And so I think it's similar to the reasoning we have to make for our Economic and Financial Programming Document, which must be a contribution not only for the country, but also for Europe, and it must draw a line of development that is different from what we have to date, which is made up of 0.1, 0.2 or 0.3 and financial policies, but it is not made up of a strong idea of the development and growth of the country that has quality. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and Senators Bignami, Molinari, Pepe and Scilipoti Isgrò.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u104	Mr Azzollini (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I will try to express quickly the reasons that will lead our Group to vote in favour of motion for a resolution No 5 of the majority and the commitment that we make to the Government in relation to a number of measures as a whole, but also to certain specific measures that we consider to be a useful part of a programme that brings back to the declared objective of this Government and this majority in economic terms: to bring Italy back to lasting growth, possibly in line with the Eurozone average. I will not dwell on the analyses which have been made very valuablely by both the rapporteur and Deputy Minister Morando in his reply, because the elements of analysis are very clear. The framework, for the first time in many years, opens favourable openings for the Italian economy. For the moment it opens them only with the massive intervention of so-called exogenous factors, that is that they come from outside, but that leave to the Italian Government a favourable context for its activity to operate and give to these elements internal structural character such as to bring Italy back on a path of lasting growth. I cannot fail to point out that, among these conditions of context, there is one in particular. This too has been pointed out, but I think it is useful to underline its paternity on the part of the Government, which through its action has effectively contributed to re-reading some parameters of European rules that today prove to be very useful. All issues relating to flexibility, the issue of the Juncker Plan and other issues relating to Europe, including the same reading of the rules, are aspects that the government's action has significantly contributed to changing during this period. This enters that framework, in that context which we have said is absolutely necessary for action to be expounded. The government's action has therefore achieved important and significant results and I believe that, even for some of the issues that I will put to the attention of the House, it may be useful for that action to continue, intensify and for this reason have even more effectiveness than the already significant one it has had. What, then, are the most important problems highlighted in the motion for a resolution? Leaving all the problems addressed to the government's report and its response to it, I will of course confine myself to highlighting some of them in order to make the contribution of my political side to the construction of this motion for a resolution to the DEF and therefore to the government action which, on the basis of it, will be expounded. The first problem I wish to raise has already been mentioned: I am referring to banking suffering, with an emphasis which I would like to stress, namely that, especially in this field, Italy can not only study - as has already been said - the path compatible with State aid, but develop its action in Europe, having behind the banking issue the most virtuous behavior among those it has had over the years. Italy is the country that has committed less in the public recapitalisation of the banks; I would say that Italy has had only one significant bank, moreover with an interest rate so high that it has found a gain for the State. In Europe, therefore, there is a good reason to say that there is now a problem, which is not that of the recapitalisation of banks, for which the banks themselves have provided, but that of transforming suffering into some instrument - I am thinking of securitisation or other - which can reopen that fundamental channel which allows us to turn into credit to be provided by liquidity, in particular that introduced by the European Central Bank's quantitative easing. Suffering is perhaps the most important of these bottlenecks today, because the amount of government bonds is being weighed by European regulators far better than in the past and, therefore, only a reduction in suffering will break the bottleneck that allows credit to be paid. Let us remember that there is no doubt that one of the key components for a lasting regrowth of investment and business is credit. I always remember that investment, together with consumption, is a component of domestic demand and that - as the rapporteur has emphasized - internal demand is essential and serves on a structural level, because the exogenous factors, to which reference has been made, will lose their incisiveness over time. Freeing up resources for businesses means freeing up private investment potential and here I come to the second of the issues we raise. I refer to the possibility for the Italian State, with private instruments of civil and corporate law, to participate with public investments in the recapitalisation of companies for specific investments that the State itself considers essential for the competitiveness and productivity of the country. I always take the example of broadband, which may be one of the sectors in which to invest, but the Government could well identify others on which to carry out such an operation, in order to contribute, not only on the part of consumption, but also of investments, to the consolidation of Italian growth. I repeat that, in my opinion, public finance is no longer sufficient to solve one of the serious problems of Italian society and the business world in particular, namely their productivity and therefore their competitiveness. I think that with a mix of public interventions, made with private instruments and private interventions stimulated by public action, the situation can be restored in a lasting way. At this point it will be useful that in the course of the maneuvers that the Government will choose to do - I have never been passionate about the journalistic issues of treasures or anything else that, if I may say so, do not bring luck (I remember well the history of treasures) and therefore do not agree on these simplifications - if it considers here to use the spread existing between the trend framework and the programming framework outlined by the DEF, or if it considers to do so through other instruments (I think of the unused part of the debts of the public administrations that had received from the European Union the derogation to the registration of the deficit or other instruments that the Government may consider appropriate to use) from here to the law of stability will have to intervene on these factors. In particular, the investment side will have to intervene in order to restore the necessary growth to Italy, because the 80 euros are now consolidated, as are other measures. Therefore, through certain specific measures, I believe that some issues can be considered immediately. I am thinking first of all of the so-called securitisation or bad banks, call them as you wish, in order to cope with suffering, but also of some minor issues, which precisely because they are financially bearable, but they can have some psychological and trust - an important component of the investor - a certain effectiveness. I'm thinking about the detaxation measures for the family. I am thinking of a balanced picture of detaxation of productivity wages. I am thinking of a rebalancing and a remodulation of the agricultural IMU, felt as a squeak, of course in a framework that extends the area of exemption, finally taking into account the existence of prestigious and important agricultural enterprises in the Italian and international - and of which we are proud - that can bring to all the small and medium-sized agricultural enterprise the relief that it has felt as squeaky. I repeat, these are immediately usable figures that can give, on the level of trust and psychological relief, the propulsion necessary to bring the country back in an ever faster way on the path of growth. I have finished, Madam President, and I repeat that our political strength will be a strong part of this government action and will support it, considering in this way that we can make an essential contribution to the development of the action itself. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u107	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Madam President, last year, at this very time, our Premier, the serial liar, boasted of his seriousness towards the previous Letta Government as he had reduced those growth estimates, previously set at 1.1 percent, to 0.8%, ensuring that this would be 2014. But then from spring we passed to autumn and, unfortunately, close to the end of the year had to issue the Update Note to the DEF and deny himself. As unfortunately it is customary to do, it tells lies in series that quickly follow the denials. In fact, it fixed a decrease in GDP -0.3 percent. That is exactly what I am saying. We were close to the end of the year, but he was able to miss this estimate too, because the contraction instead of being 0.3%, was 0.4, so he made a mistake of 0.1. It happened that he made a mistake of 1.6 billion and it is not a small one: it is a treasure that we lost last year, because instead right now with this fantastic gain of this treasure you would also like to issue a decree of urgency, as a source of funding for electoral propaganda for the upcoming regional and administrative electoral consultations, to raise a little the fate of Prime Minister Renzi, who unfortunately are in decline. However, the most disconcerting thing is who follows him in this, because by now we know that Renzi is a good battlehorse for marketing agencies, but the problem is Padoan who paradoxically is also following him in this madness. Padoan, in fact (and clearly indicates this in the DEF), attributes this possible increase of 0.7% to these famous exogenous factors, therefore to quantitative easing, to saving on the payment of interest payable on our debt, to the decrease of the price of oil and to the decrease of the euro. He makes just an algebraic sum to validate these assumptions, putting on the one hand the positive components and on the other the negative ones. We see that the negative components are a 0.3% reduction in tax revenue and 0.1 in non-tax revenue; instead, as far as the positive components are concerned, there would be 0.2% less primary expenditure and 0.3 less interest expenditure. However, to say that there will be these lower tax revenues does not mean that we have paid less taxes or that we will pay less, because in the DEF it is clearly written that in a frightening and massacred escalation from 2015 to 2019 we will increase tax revenues by well over 106 billion euros. This figure means that Padoan once again denies himself and says that he had planned to choke the Italians a little more, but he does not succeed because this pressing was linked to a growth that is not and will not be there. What, then, are these fanciful exogenous factors? We have to tell the truth and say that there is nothing prudential, on the contrary there is too optimistic. First of all, we are going to say very wisely that we actually do the right thing and that in Europe only Greece does the right thing; instead, beyond the fact that you send the teachers in the talk shows to deny it, one thing is certain: you have foreseen bogus covers, do the tricks. We are even talking about the recovery of tax evasion, but you are blaming companies with split payment and reverse charge, which are nothing more than a violation of VAT legislation, and also of the European Business Payments Directive. For once, therefore, our artisans, the associations of categories of construction entrepreneurs (I speak of those who raise the screen, who work every day) I would like to see them next to Renzi do as when he says to Marchionne: Don't complain, don't cry and wake up, that you're not the sleeping beauty in the woods. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Meanwhile, from those entrepreneurs you are cashing out and you are not recovering tax evasion for 1.7 billion. However, since there are appeals and because Europe might not accept this your marchattificio, it is already ready the safeguard clause that takes place on 30 June 2015 and the Italians, because of your rigged accounts, will have to pay more taxes and more excise duties on gasoline: we have played the first exogenous factor in reducing the cost of oil, gentlemen, you have to say this! On the way back to Greece, when we say that they do the wrong things and then let them go down, let's not say that Greece, during austerity, has reduced public spending by 35%, the structural deficit by 20%, but has contracted GDP by 27% and unemployment has reached 28%. But when Greece opens its mouth to say that at the end of the month she will no longer have the money to pay her wages, the spread splattered at 138 points, because speculators immediately remind her that she is taking advantage of rates on her own debt that do not compete, because she does not deserve them, because she has a firm and stagnant economy and does nothing to improve it. This happened the other day. How do you build a DEF on a spread that should be well below 100 points? Even, you counted 84 points, and the other day came to 138 for a little word from Varoufakis. The speculators give us these warnings clearly because the banks saved them with austerity to Greece, but it is also true that Italy, like other countries, is exposed to Greece for 40.8 billion. Let's see how it does, an Italy that says it has a treasure of 1.6 billion that it doesn't even have, to answer for 40 billion. That should be said. So instead of charging Greece these wear and tear rates, we're looking for a solution, because the solutions are actually there and there should be. 16:01 (Following Lezzi). When you base an entire economic planning on factors that do not exist, you have to tell the Italians what structural reforms the European Commission asked us for in its Communication of 13 January: they are savings on health care and pensions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You must say that, because the European Community has written to Italy, that it is going to chat on TV, that it is appropriate to give a definition of structural reforms. This is not Barbara Lezzi who said that, but the European Commission, who does not care about Italicum, about the fake reform of the Senate, about all this talk. This isn't happening, because it's just distracting. The Dem minority tries to make the opposition, but then it actually votes yes, because that's where you have to get there, that's where you have to attack and that's what you should actually say. With regard to the treasure, I would like to say that the 5 Star Movement is not interested in the absolute term of debt, but that this debt is sustainable, so it is necessary to get out of this so strict framework of European rules, because you make up the accounts but still stay in this groove. Let's get rid of it, then, because we have not been less than France, to which Europe has not asked to pay the fine of 4 billion because it breaks the parameters, while Italy last year had to pay them immediately: Padoan gave that 4 billion on his fingernail. We also hope, then, to introduce the income of citizenship, to relieve the tax burden on small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That's the only way we're gonna get back on our feet, that's the only way we're gonna get up. It is only chatter, those contained in over 1,000 pages of waste endorsed by the Parliamentary Budget Office. Senator Santini, last year too the UPB had endorsed them, yet the unproductive public debt has increased, the deficit has increased, the contraction has increased. But what is the UPB, if not yet another office at the service of the Government that does only middle school and declares that it does not have the tools to vidimare? You must tell the whole truth, Santini: the UPB is a farce wanted by Europe, because then it must achieve its aims and not those of our citizens, of Italians. The 5 Star Movement disagrees with this framework of reference, because it does not want Italy to become Greece, as already has become our South and I tell the Government that it would be better to forget about the South, because it is massacred, it is better so because it also takes away the funds of cohesion and development, it takes away everything: so I ask at least that you leave it alone. Since we are opposed to the fact that the German Finance Minister Scheuble should decide and we would like an Italian Finance Minister, we are voting against it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u110	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the data published a few days ago by ISTAT also shed some light on the numbers of this DEF. Indeed, pursuant to the Protocol on the excessive deficit procedure, ISTAT notified the European Commission of data on net debt and debt over the years 2011-2014. They are homogeneous data, coming from the same source and therefore easily comparable. We are particularly interested because they demonstrate the total futility of the two technical governments and of a third that I would call "government of the approximately," because everything it does does does so superficially, including this DEF and its posthumous corrections just arrived. GDP in 2011 was 1,638 billion; government debt amounted to 1,907 billion euro, 116.4% of GDP; interest income of 76 billion was 4.7% of GDP. In 2014, GDP was 1,616 billion; public debt was 2,134 billion euro, 132.1 percent of GDP and interest payable, equal to 75 billion, represented 4.7 percent of GDP. GDP fell by 22 billion over four years and debt increased by 227 billion. Looking at these data, it is clear that the Berlusconi Government which fell due to the rise in the spread arrived, or arrived (and I hope that soon will be known), up to 575 basis points, has been replaced by those who, in the light of the facts, managed to increase the debt in real terms and in percentage terms of GDP at levels now out of control. These are the prerequisites, because from these data we have to start. 227 billion more public debt, than now this DEF program to reduce through little more than 27 billion privatizations between 2015 and 2018, about 1.7% of GDP. In the estimates of the DEF we are faced with an absolutely inadequate privatisation programme, in particular with regard to the myriad of local participants. As, incidentally, the infrastructure programme seems totally inadequate to us. The debt-to-GDP ratio will increase to 132.5 percent in 2015, and then be included in the government's 120% forecast in 2019. I just want to remind myself that 120 percent is greater than 116.4% which is the figure of the Berlusconi Government in 2011. In order to reach 120 percent, the primary surplus is expected to grow as a result of the reduction in public expenditure. Based on the overall data of the DEF and posthumous corrections as soon as they arrive, we have strong doubts that this can happen. These days, in fact, the members of the government, have spoken of treasure to be used. In this DEF, the government, on the basis of estimates that revise the GDP of 2015 from 0.6% to 0.7% (and, among us, in the euro area behind there is only Cyprus), believes that it can use this 0.1% more, equal to about 1.6 billion, to make new spending. The government could therefore remain on a deficit of 2.6%, thanks to the likely new budgetary flexibility granted by the European Commission. However, the question remains as to how all the theoretical growth of GDP can actually be translated into spending. And the news agencies of these hours reinforce these doubts. I would not like, as is the tradition of the Renzi Government, to bring back to the expense that part of the revenue that comes from taxation. Nor would I want the government, as it has done so far, to reach this billion six hundred million in debt by issuing new government bonds. The DEF's policy data show a change of pace in GDP growth after 2015: 1.4 percent in 2016, 1.5 percent in 2017, and then descend to 1.4% in 2018 and 1.3% in 2019. The impact of structural reforms (the ones so much declaimed by the Renzi Government) is estimated to be zero until 2017, rising to 0.1 percentage points in 2018 and 0.2 percentage points in 2019. These figures clearly show, to those who still had doubts, that growth is only cyclical and there is almost nothing structural. The measures that the Government intends to take involve cuts in public expenditure, for about 75% of the amount of the 2016 maneuver, and for the remaining 25% cuts in tax breaks. We want to point out that tax expenditure, tax expenditure, as the Government calls it, are tax deductions and deductions for businesses and citizens. The cut in tax spending will not reduce public spending, but will increase the tax burden. We believe that the government must fully grasp all the exogenous variables that we have heard so much about this morning and that allow our GDP to grow and that, at the same time, it must study a serious plan to reduce unproductive expenditure, increasing, where possible, only that for investment, which is the only one that can help to grow the real economy and GDP. A correlation should be established between state and local privatisations and the payment of corporate claims on public administration. The Renzi Government has made the previous payments by issuing new government bonds. 13.7 billion were paid by Renzi, the former or future - I don't know - President of the Council Letta had paid almost 23, but there remain 20 to be paid. If paid in 2015, they would shock the economic system. Only in this way will it be certain that interest expenditure will decrease from 4.7 percent of GDP in 2014 to 3.7 percent of GDP in 2019 planned by the Government. Otherwise, if you skip the forecast on public debt, you raise the burden for interest and you skip all accounts, even if you keep this spread to the minimum terms, which gives us the international financial community, which we strongly doubt. We invite the Government to reason on the reduction of the tax burden, not in ideological terms, but with a prospective vision that also shows the increase of the tax base. If I can synthesize, less taxes, more people who pay, the economy moves accordingly by producing and investing. In order to do all this, we must give more seriousness to our public accounts and to the various safeguard clauses which are still too threatening and whose entry into force must be absolutely avoided. On this we ask for certain numbers, which according to us are still not there, even after the wrong corrige. Our opinion on this DEF is negative: it is negative on the new programming with respect to the numbers to current legislation and the repercussions that this document of economy and finance will have on the probable maneuver of adjustment of the public accounts and above all on the law of stability 2016. President Renzi will understandably try to avoid adjustment at all costs. In the light of all these considerations, I declare the Italian Force Group's vote against. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u113	SUSTA (PD). Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, fellow senators, many Senators of the Democratic Party Group have already expressed the merit assessments, the comments and suggestions that summarize the sense of the PD Group's vote in favour of the Economic and Financial Document and the accompanying majority resolution. It is a serious, prudent document, which does not tell a different Italy from what it is, a document based on numbers and which indicates objectives (as the rapporteur has best illustrated, which I thank) in line with the forecasts of the main research centres, which extends his gaze on what is happening in Europe and in a world that before us has resumed to grow, that does not hide the difficulties that still persist on the way of a non-ephemeral recovery that does not hang his hopes only on the Italian star, which often in the past has entrusted itself to the political class that ruled us. In the document there are the undoubted and positive exogenous factors that favor the recovery, which I do not repeat, but in which we can see also a Italy that is strengthening the domestic factors of the growth with a program of structural, constitutional, institutional, economic and social reforms, that we have been waiting for decades, whose delay, besides an excessive public debt, has represented the basic gap strongly penalising for the growth of Italy regarding the other main European countries. Of course, we must not abandon ourselves to superficial optimism. We must and cannot fail to tell the Italians the truth, which is not that of a country completely healed. It is good to think carefully about calls for caution, which come from important institutions. It is good not to assume that the exogenous positive factors can last for years in the positive terms today, but woe not to grasp the macro and micro signals that allow us to outline a more reassuring picture for us and for Europe, since the fate of a country that represents 10% of what is the world's first economic power ends up influencing even the overall crises of our system. A reformed Italy, which reduces the tax wedge, with a more open labour market and with more protection for workers in the sectors most exposed to global competition, with a more efficient and above all effective public administration, with swift civil justice, with a stronger banking system from the patrimonial point of view, brought back to its natural function of protecting savings and supporting the real economy, with a tax reform that favours an effective relationship between the State and the citizen, based on simplification and transparency, that knows how to distinguish between the wrong and the fraudster, that bases the desired and encouraged reduction of the tax pressure on the firm fight to escape, also with a great job at international level, as well as on the widening of the productive base. A State aware, as Senator Fornaro recalled, of the effort made by local authorities in recent years, often without distinguishing between virtuous and non-virtuous bodies, and that today is committed to redesigning the rules on erial transfers and local tax autonomy, without which the system of local autonomy risks to jump. This is an Italy that, even with all the difficulties of a present on which the errors of the past still weigh, concretely lays the foundations to engage the recovery, start and consolidate the growth and progressively eliminate the heavy mortgage that has been registered on its future. This is the perspective that indicates the arid numbers of the DEF, which we believe to be reliable, and on which policies can be based, that through reforms and the laws of stability and budget will find their concrete realization. This DEF, thanks to the work carried out from the end of 2011 to today, with the Governments Monti, Letta and, for 14 months, with the Government Renzi, can finally indicate the perspective of a country that returns to growth and at the same time can begin a necessary work of rebalancing the social scissors, which the crisis has dramatically widened (as Senator Zanoni recalled), and of modernising its infrastructure, in the transparency of decisions, in the effectiveness of actions, in the fight against widespread illegality and with a careful policy of spending. The use of the benefits of the hard work of consolidation and prudentness in keeping public accounts in balance, with the forecast of zeroing the deficit and reducing the debt ratio to 120% of GDP over the next three years, constitute a more than realistic and serious framework to avoid the risk of having to trigger immediately the safeguard clauses, which would sound like a denial of the realistic picture outlined. The DEF, very appropriately, more than entrusting the hopes of an expansionary cyclical phase only to the exogenous factors or to the essential indications, which come from the European institutions, has focused much on domestic factors, as mentioned at the beginning, which favor a climate favourable to growth. It is a fair and positive approach, because it arises from the awareness, often not perceived by broad forces of public opinion and politics, that the main cause of our problems is not outside of us, but within our history, even recently, and the delay with which we were able to grasp the changes, metabolize them, explain them to the citizens and adapt ourselves to a world that ran faster and better than us. The delays and short-sightedness of Europe - of this Europe - have often been the alibi to find outside of us responsibilities that were born instead within our inadequacy to grasp the sign of the times. Since the 2012 European Council, when Italy laid the foundations for budgetary rules to be "less stupid" and for the European Central Bank to be able to act more freely in the use of monetary leverage, up to the Italian Presidency of the Renzi Government, during which the Banking Union was consolidated and the ECB used quantitative easing to restore breath to the economy, many things have changed in the sensitivity of the Community institutions, but certainly not enough. Without a further qualitative leap towards genuine political and economic integration of the European Union, the positive effects of exogenous factors - on all the relationship between the euro and the dollar - are also likely to be frustrated and to overwhelm domestic factors, which are conducive to a climate of growth. We also need to understand what we want to say when we talk about Europe. What we want to stress is the need for the current treaties to be changed, in order to give Europe those powers which the Community institutions do not have today and therefore the responsibility goes back to the European parliaments and governments to arrive at new treaties, which complement the great unfinished one that Europe is, politically and therefore economically. This will enable us to have new instruments, such as Eurobonds, a homogeneous fiscal policy, a truly free and complete internal market, a unified energy policy and a world-wide trade policy, not conditioned by the blackmail of opposing national selfishness. This will allow everyone to grow together, pained to start towards an unhappy decrease. The DEF, therefore, is not a mere accounting tool: it is the horizon in which to place, in a multiannual programming, the commitments and hopes of a country that is finally seeing the light at the end of the tunnel and that has not stopped thinking for itself of a leading role in the world. The vote in favour of the Democratic Party Group's majority resolution is together the confirmation of the responsibility that we have assumed to lead the country; it is the conviction that, on the path of realism and a willing optimism, it is possible to give Italy back that dignity that still a few years ago seemed lost. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u115	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u116	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Mr President, I believe that the Government's plan is very clear and just a look at the overall picture to understand that. I repeat: it is enough to have a look. There is a centralization of decision-making power in the hands of very few and citizens are forced to accept any compromise to the bottom to survive. The project is carried out in two ways: the elimination of all the counterweights of a democratic system, with constitutional reform and electoral law, but also the so-called unblocking Italy and the reform of public administrations, passing also through the reorganization and public reorganization. As far as citizens are concerned, there is an elimination of the democratic economy, starting from the billion-dollar cuts to local authorities and the popular banking decree, to arrive at the Poletti decree and the jobs act. Many people have filled their mouths with this DEF, talking about investment in human capital. However, if you think about it, the Government does not invest in human capital: the Government invests human capital with a non-democratic economic policy. You are financing the central state with cuts to local authorities, which you have now turned into taxpayers (we are told by the local authorities heard at the hearing). You are financed by blocking the salaries of civil servants, by blocking the turnover, by local taxation on buildings, by linear cuts and by non-evaluation of minimum pensions, by forcing the raising of the local tax burden: all this in order not to raise the tax burden and to finance the central state. Is this your investment in human capital? Poverty is rampant and, if need be, we have been confirmed by the hearings of the past few days. It is time to invest seriously on that heritage that are the people who live in Italy. Globalisation must not necessarily be flattening and type-approval: it could mean enhancing diversity. It is useless to continue to speak only of internationalization, since this is destroying small and medium-sized enterprises, which were the only support to the Italian State: you are destroying it. Why in this moment of the lucky astral conjuncture of the exogenous factors (which, I repeat, is only a lucky astral conjuncture: I see that the Deputy Minister also laughs) do you not think to take the opportunity, finally, to restore confidence and re-launch the domestic demand? Also because the exogenous factors we know will only last as long as the currency war allows. As soon as the currency war is reversed and the situation will return as before, the exogenous factors will again be negative for us. If we really want to re-launch domestic demand, understood as investment and consumption, we can only do one thing, which is the first real structural reform to be done: to predict the income of citizenship. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Citizenship income would give confidence and restart the internal market. Why? Because a poor person does not consume: a poor person has no purchasing power, does not invest and does not even produce GDP. If possible, we will commit suicide, so perhaps we will solve this problem, as well as relaunching the internal market. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u117	You have to finish senator and tell me where your dissent is.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u118	BULGARRELLI (M5S). I thought I had ten minutes for the dissenting explanation of vote. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u119	There are five minutes for all the dissenting statements and you have already spoken...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u120	BULGARRELLI (M5S). If you have patience, I will begin to conclude so I explain my dissent. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Get it done. BULGARRELLI (M5S). The other real great structural reform would be to think of an economy that is based on prevention and not on interventionism and emergency, and I do not go to explain it because I no longer have time: but prevention, together with culture, would reduce by much all the expenses, even those of health, those related to all social services and all the issues that then create problems and discomforts within the cities. With this prevention, which is certainly a long-term investment (which is a completely new approach, however), we would redesign the country and maybe one day we would also realize that GDP is no longer needed but that we can use BES, which is an indicator of the quality of life. In this new economic vision, therefore - we are at the third true structural reform... [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u121	Get it done.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u122	BULGARRELLI (M5S). ...we can finance the debt with tax credit certificates and no longer with debt. I shall abstain from voting simply because it is time to imagine a new system and not to continue to be in a system that is always the same, in which we are trapped. We must have the courage to imagine a new system and to realize it. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u125	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I take advantage of this moment, since all my colleagues are present and there are also ministers, to inform you - probably many know this - that an Italian, an NGO operator has died. The United States has just declared that, in an operation in Afghanistan, in January he was killed by a drone, evidently by mistake - we wait for the details - one of our operators, Giovanni Lo Porto, for whose death, of course, all of us must express a deep regret and pain to the families. I wanted to say this now because then, in the abandonment of this House, it would have been too sad to remember with a speech at the end of the sitting. Among other things, this House has adopted certain very general decisions on the use of drones and weapons. Therefore, I invite all my colleagues, including those of my Group, to reflect this weekend on the outcome that often these weapons and these modalities have on civilians and, alas, also on our peacemakers. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u126	I thank Senator Airola. The Presidency joins the condolences that have been expressed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u127	I would remind you that a number of amendments have been tabled to motion for a resolution No 5, to which I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u128	I am in favour of amendment 5.1. With regard to Amendment 5.2, as with the subsequent amendments, while agreeing with the aims of many of these amending proposals, they include measures which we believe are already contained in the majority resolution, i.e. they provide for additional expenditure which cannot be supported at this stage. I therefore call on the authors to withdraw all the amendments from 5.2, otherwise I am against it. Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u131	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, when you ask in advance, if possible, to have all the cards removed from the seats where they are not sitting senators, so that there is no misunderstanding about the voting arrangements, I would ask you to have the voting taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u134	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, since it seems to me that we have passed the stage of explanation of the amendments, I would ask you to take account of the fact that, with regard to the proposals I signed, we would like to make explanations of vote individually, amendment by amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is There's no time space here, Senator D'Alì. Forza Italia has already exceeded the assigned time of almost ten minutes and therefore there is no such possibility. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). I would like to know, then, whether it is possible to make an overall explanation of vote on the first amendment, which also applies to everyone else. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The explanations of vote have already been made, Senator D'Alì. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). I am talking about the amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There is no explanation of vote on the amendments. These declarations fall within the total time allocated to each Group. Otherwise, with sixteen amendments, we would be here until tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). I do not know that I have ever done obstructive practices in this Parliament, but I would ask you to give an overall explanation of vote on all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u135	At the time of the vote on your amendment, I will give you three minutes for a good start with the House. In the meantime, I have the right to withdraw the cards to which the presence of any senator does not correspond. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] If all our colleagues give us a hand, maybe we'll speed things up. Meanwhile, I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a nominal vote by electronic procedure, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). [[The Senator Secretary takes care to collect some cards from the detectors. Comments.]] If a senator is not present, he withdraws his card. Let's not argue about that. When he comes back, we'll give it back to him. (Senator Candiani removes the card from Senator Calderoli's post.) Yes, yes, take it off, Senator Candiani. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.1 tabled by Senator De Biasi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Puglisi, do you withdraw Amendment 5.2? Mr PUGLISI (PD). Yes, I'll withdraw it, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u138	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to make a statement on the whole of the amendments, so that I meet the time requirements that you have rightly expressed. We have tabled a number of amendments in line with what has been said in general debate, because we believe that it is Parliament's job and the government's duty to transpose information on the use of available resources and not to reserve it for libitum to be able to manage them later. In particular, and I address all my fellow Members who have supported the battle for the abolition of the IMU in agriculture, having had the opportunity to listen to a recent statement by the President-in-Office of the Council in this regard - unless his statements are always made of the impromptuness that has little consequence - I would recommend the adoption of amendment 5.7, specifically concerning the abolition of the IMU in agriculture. My call is also addressed to those Members of the majority who, when we discussed the relevant decree-law, were in favour of this abolition, as well as to colleagues from the regions, including mine, where agriculture still represents a high percentage of GDP. I therefore trust that Parliament will have pride on these indications and that it will not always have succeeded in the decisions of the Government - but in this case, as has also been stated clearly by the press agencies, by the President of the Council alone - and that it will therefore give precise indications to which the Government should then adhere. We therefore do not withdraw the amendments we have tabled, as we have been asked to do, and we are asking for the vote on them.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u139	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.3, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.4, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.5, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.6, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.7, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.8, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.9, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.20 tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.11, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.12, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.13, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.14, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.15 tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.16 tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 5, tabled by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). It is therefore foreclosed that motions for resolutions Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 2 (text 2), presented by Senator De Petris and other Senators; 3 presented by Senator Compagnone and other Senators; 4 presented by Senator Marton and other Senators; and 6 presented by Senator Romani Paolo and other Senators. Ladies and gentlemen, we should now move on to the next item on the agenda. Appreciate the circumstances, I'd finish our work here. If no comments are made, this remains the case.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u140	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-436.ana.u141	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 28 April, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.41 a.m.
