ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. LUCIDI, f.f. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u3	The next item is the question and questions. First, the questioning 2-00244 will be carried out by abbreviated procedure, pursuant to Rule 156- bis of the Rules of Procedure, and questions 3-01657, 3-01746 and 3-01885 on the rationalization plan of Poste italiani SpA. I call Senator Favero to explain this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u4	Thank you, Madam President, and thank you to Mr De Filippo. The question starts from a problem highlighted on 2 February 2015, when the management of the branch of Poste italiane di Biella communicates to the mayor of the capital city, pursuant to article 5 of the AGCOM resolution of 26 June 2014, that, in order to adapt the offer to the actual demand of the postal services in the municipal territory, in compliance with article 2, paragraph 6, of the current program contract 2009-2011, with effect from 13 April 2015, would have proceeded to the closing of the post offices of Biella 2 and Favaro, a fraction of the Municipality that rises to 800 meters on the level of the sea, and Oropa, which is a site inserted in those protected by UNESCO and is the most famous Marian sanctuary among those mountain ones. The interventions would have been adopted in compliance with the parameters of presence of the points of access to the universal postal network on the national territory that bears the criteria of distribution of the points of access to the public postal network as supplemented by the AGCOM resolution already mentioned and communicated to the regulatory authority in the field pursuant to article 7, paragraph 1 of the same resolution. According to some local press articles and according to what I have learned from them, there are many post offices (there is a list of all those located in mountain areas, hills and even in disadvantaged areas) to be further interested in the reorganization plan of Italian Post Office. This news has brought confusion and concern between Italian citizenship, due to the specific territorial context of Biella and the serious economic crisis affecting the territory. This decision risks creating additional inconveniences among the population and jeopardising the quality standards on the territory of the universal postal service in accordance with the law on public services and the Charter of the quality of the universal postal service. This plan of organization throughout the national territory of Poste italiani would interest about 450 post offices destined for the closure and 600 others at risk of the reduction of the times, for a total of approximately 1.000 participations. This project, in the opinion of the interviewer, risks to severely penalize part of the Italian territory, especially in mountain and rural areas, which mainly characterize some Regions such as Piedmont, with heavy repercussions on users and employment levels. It should also be considered that, in a note of President AGCOM of 22 January 2015, the attention by the Authority to the situation of the most remote geographical areas of the national territory, rural, mountain and smaller islands, has been reiterated, although in a context of proper restraint of the burden of universal postal service and of necessary rationalization. As stated in the same note, when modifying the criteria for the distribution of post offices, it was considered appropriate to include specific prohibitions on the closure of those offices that serve users living in remote and disadvantaged areas of the country, even in the face of very low traffic volumes and high operating costs. Finally, the note contained the obligation, present in the resolution, to start with the local institutions well in advance the rationalization measures and this in order to start a comparison on the possibility of limiting the inconveniences for the populations concerned by identifying alternative solutions. I therefore presented this question, last February 11, in order to know the position of the Government on the situation, if such interventions of Italian Posts on the entire national territory are actually consistent with the criteria of distribution of the points of access to the public postal network, provided for by the Ministerial Decree of 7 October 2008 and if the Ministry does not consider it appropriate, with acts of its own competence, to guarantee to citizens the universal service of postal communications, avoiding that the obligations imposed on the provider of the service by the legislation and the contract of service, through the closure and the reduction of the territorial post offices of the Country are disregarded. Finally, as regards specifically the territory of Piedmont and Biella, it is asked whether the truth corresponds to the news regarding the closing and the reduction of the weekly hours of various local post offices, in addition to those indicated by Poste Italiani in the communication of 2 February 2015 and whether it is intended to intervene to avoid the expected inconveniences that would be created following such interventions between the population of Biella and Piedmont, that do not protect and value the public service at places classified as mountain, like Oropa; site widely receptive where - to mention numbers - there are 20,000 overnight stays and 500,000-800,000 visitors each year. Since I presented an interrogation, for which the answer should be shorter (fifteen days), the picture of the situation has certainly changed. In fact, last February 19 there was an encounter between the Conference State-Regions and the representatives of the ANCI with the president and the managing director of Poste italiani on the industrial plan of the group, at the end of which, the president Chiamparino has evidenced the availability of Italian Posts to accompany the application of the industrial plan also with regional and local meetings and the possibility to manage also some exceptions. This was followed by the announcement, on 18 March, that the company will proceed to the implementation of the rationalization plan only after completing the dialogue started with the Regions, for the analysis of detail of the territories, following the indications of the Ministry of economic development suitable for the involvement of the local institutions. Then there was a further step, on April 9, in which the Senate approved motions on the rationalization plan of Italian Post Office, which commit the Government to various measures. I then went into this issue with a further question, because unfortunately the problems have been added up and so I would like to make a very brief reference to the possible adoption of the delivery model every other day of postal items in the universal service, which is the latest proposal by Poste Italiani. I say this in advance: according to all those who have subscribed to the questioning, this does not fit the model proposed by Poste Italiani, being applied to 65.8 percent of the Italian municipalities - that is the great majority of them - thus making this derogation a structural rule. Finally, the criterion of density, which should be of protection, of the 200 inhabitants per square kilometre, would in fact lead to a reduction of the postal service in areas already little served by different types of infrastructure, such as broadband service, the cellular telecommunications network, the digital terrestrial television signal, which does not arrive. If in these sites, in the smaller islands, in the hilly or disadvantaged countries, or in mountain areas we go to remove the possibility of interaction with such an important office, that often, together with the barracks of the carabinieri and the school is the only sign of presence of the institutions, there are big problems. With the interrogation and subsequent questions we therefore want to urge Italian Post Office, so that the list of municipalities affected by the plan proposed by the company, including those affecting the territory of Piedmont, in which about 900 local authorities would be involved - the Italian backbone is made by the small local authorities - and ask what actions it intends to take to avoid the injury of citizens' right of access to the universal postal service, in the small realities, especially mountain and island ones, which would be created also because of the application of the delivery model to alternate days of postal mailings, which is similar to the closure of many territorial post offices. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The representative of the Government may reply in conjunction with the question and the question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u5	In advance, it should be noted that the postal sector, at national and Community level, has been affected in recent years by profound changes, which have concerned the regulatory environment and, in particular, the transition of regulatory and supervisory functions from the Ministry of Economic Development to the Authority for Communications Guarantees, as a result of Decree-Law of 6 December 2011, No 201, converted into the Law of 22 December 2011, No 214. In addition, there have been significant changes in competition and changing user needs towards a significant differentiation in the supply of services. In this context, the provision of universal service presents problems related to particular demographic and territorial conditions, characterised by large areas of difficult accessibility and low population density. The program contract in force between the Italian Ministry and Post Office requires article 2, paragraph 6, that the latter transmits to the Authority for the guarantees in the communications (AGCOM), with annual frequency, the list of post offices and delivery structures that do not guarantee conditions of economic equilibrium and, at the same time, the plan of intervention for the progressive rationalization of their management. The Authority shall, in the exercise of its supervisory powers, carry out an evaluation of the plan to rationalise the management of post offices in order to verify compliance with the criteria for the distribution of points of access to the postal network. On this aspect, it should be noted that AGCOM, with resolution n. 342 of 2014, with points of access to the postal network: modification of the distribution criteria of the Italian Post Office, has integrated the criteria of distribution of post offices referred to in Article 2 of the Ministerial Decree of 7 October 2008, through the introduction of specific guarantees to protect users, in particular for those who use post offices located in mountain communities and in the smaller islands. The program contract also allows Italian Post Office, subject to agreement with the local authorities, to ensure a more articulated presence in the disadvantaged territorial areas. Therefore, in accordance with the needs of users, maximum consultation between the Italian Post Office and the local authorities is desirable. Such engagement has been, moreover, evidenced also during the encounter of the 12 past February had with the managing director of Italian Posts and the president of the AGCOM. In this regard it is noted that on 6 February 2015 we sent a letter to the managing director of Italian Post Francesco Caio and to the president of the Authority for the guarantee in communications Angelo Cardani to solicit a meeting to assess how appropriate it was to do in the respective field of competence. The meeting was held at the Ministry of Economic Development on 12 February. the managing director of Poste italiani - while admitting some problem of communication of the plan - has excluded an occupational impact and a reduction of the services to the citizens and has reiterated that the cuts of the offices previewed in 2015 are compatible with the criteria established from the AGCOM resolution of August 2014. This declaration was then confirmed by AGCOM itself, which is responsible for verifying compliance with the obligations of the annual plan established by Decree 7 October 2008 on the distribution of post offices in the territory. At our request, Poste italiani, by letter of 7 April 2015, agreed to suspend the implementation of the rationalization plan, originally planned for 13 April 2015, in order to ensure greater involvement of local authorities and their administrators, in order to take effective account of the needs of citizens, with particular attention to the weakest groups, and the specificities of the territories. The company has also undertaken to explain how innovative services will ensure universal service protection for all citizens. For completeness of information it is represented that the Authority for the guarantees in the communications, heard about it, has evidenced that in order to allow a more punctual assessment of the impact of the aforementioned plan on the local population, as well as the eventual identification of alternative solutions more respond to the specific territorial context, article 5 paragraph 1 of the aforementioned resolution n. 342 of 2014 has previewed the obligation of pre-notification to the mayors of the municipalities concerned at least sixty days before the planned date of implementation of the intervention. The same Authority has also assured that it will continue in the activity of supervision, verifying the legitimacy, from the point of view of the consistency with the legislation in force, of the closings or the hourly remodulations of the post offices contained in the plan communicated by Poste italiani SpA. This said, with regard in particular to the Piedmont Region, of interest of Senator Favero, the aforementioned company has specified that, compared to 1,412 post offices retail currently operating, 89 of which opened also the afternoon, and to the 20 Post office enterprise, 40 closing interventions and 134 interventions of remodulation of the opening days have been included in the plan. In addition, there are 399 ATM ATMs in the region, of which 390 are active 24 hours a day. With regard to the province of Biella, of interest to Senator Favero, against the 89 post offices currently active, three of which are open in double-shift mode, and to the two Post-Company offices, seven closing interventions and 16 hourly remodulation interventions are included in the plan. In this territory there are 16 ATM ATMs, active 24 hours a day. As for the post office Oropa, of interest of Senator Favero, Poste italiani has evidenced that the same is not the only one of the municipal territory, being Oropa fraction of Biella. The latter, which is not a municipality at the same time neither rural nor mountain, currently has 10 retail offices and four ATM ATMs, active 24 hours a day. Finally, the company indicated that the other post offices located at less distance from the Oropa office are: the Pollone and Pralungo offices, both open six days a week with afternoon hours, the Cossila office open three days a week and the Occhieppo Superiore office open six days a week with afternoon hours and equipped with ATM automatic door, accessible twenty-four hours a day. Regarding the Umbrian territory of interest of the Senators Lucidi and Ginetti, Poste italiani has evidenced that regarding the 262 operating post offices, of which 24 active in double-shift mode and four Posteimpresa, 15 closing interventions and 18 remodulation of the opening days have been inserted in the plan. There are also 146 ATMs in the same territory, 137 of which are active 24 hours a day. With regard to the third question put by Senator Lucidi it is recalled that the aforementioned AGCOM Resolution 342 provides even more stringent criteria that have avoided the planning of the closure of about 500 post offices, based on the maximum distance per percentage of national resident population and the percentage presence of post offices on the total of Italian municipalities. As regards the Abruzzo territory of interest of Senator Pezzopane, the company indicated that, compared to 483 post offices currently operating, of the 53 active in double-shift mode were included in the plan 19 closing interventions and 35 remodulation of the opening days. There are also 245 ATMs in the territory, 236 of which are active 24 hours a day. In any case, Poste Italiani has ensured that all the interventions included in the plan are fully respectful of the above mentioned legislation and that the implementation of the same will take place only after completing the dialogue started with all the local institutions. The aforementioned company has reiterated, finally, that the aforementioned participations will not imply any managerial criticality, maintaining the current levels of service without generating any problems of type employment. For completeness of information it is represented that the Authority for the guarantees in the communications, heard about it, has evidenced that in order to allow a more punctual assessment of the impact of the aforementioned plan on the local population, as well as the eventual identification of alternative solutions more responding to the specific territorial context, pursuant to article 5, paragraph 1, of the aforementioned resolution n. 342 has previewed the obligation of prior notification to the mayors of the municipalities concerned at least sixty days before the planned date of implementation of the intervention. The Authority itself has also ensured that it will continue its supervisory activity by verifying the legality, in terms of consistency with the current legislation, of the closures or hourly remodulations of the post offices contained in the plan communicated by Poste italiano SpA and of which specific and detailed violations are reported.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u8	Mr Pezzopane (PD). Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, I thank the Government for being here today to answer our questions. In this respect, I express my partial satisfaction. In fact, if on the one hand I grasp, as a positive aspect, the intervention of the Government following the massive pressure from many Municipalities and the same National Association of Municipalities - pressure that has led to demand the suspension of the plan, that otherwise would have started on April 13, with significant and substantial damages on the territory - on the other, I seem to understand that, from the managing director of Italian Posts, Dr Francesco Caio, and in any case from the structure of Italian Posts, the intention to submit entirely the territory of our Region (like those of other Italian Regions solicited in terms of numbers and quantities from other colleagues), to the directives contained in the plan, that remains in its entirety. In essence, the Post Office told us that they will listen to the instances of the territory and that they will do nothing before they hear it, but once they hear it they will proceed. It does not seem to me a correct attitude towards the territory, understood as a country, and especially the local institutions that represent it. In fact, listening to the territory, the mayors and the local authorities should at least lead to the opening of a table of comparison where it is possible to find alternative solutions. I am referring in particular to my Region, where 19 branches would be deleted, seven of which in the Province of Teramo, four in the Province of Chieti, two in the province of Pescara and a high number in the Province of L'Aquila, which is not only an all-mountain Province, but is also an earthquakeed Province that is laboriously trying to get out of a situation of serious economic and social discomfort and marginalization. In particular of these six, four fall precisely in the Municipality of L'Aquila, in the most disadvantaged areas and affected by the earthquake: one in Sulmona and the other in Oricola. Undoubtedly the numbers of the users of these territories will have induced Italian Post Office to take measures, but it is clear that they will undoubtedly produce further inconveniences to small towns, especially the elderly population, and the further abandonment of mountain and hilly areas. Having been a local administrator, at another time I managed to foil the closure of some offices with Italian Post through a negotiation in which the local authority itself made available offices not used for its functions; moreover, we managed to solve some problems through mobile systems of motorhomes that however covered the whole territory. Therefore, in declaring myself partially satisfied, I invite the Government, in this comparison with the ANCI, to find, in the territories where it is intended to delete the post office, alternative solutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u11	LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, I would like to thank the representative of the Government for his reply, but I am partially satisfied. I believe that all of us have provided important information, but we must start from the nature of Poste italiani, that is from the service it offers, and above all from its historical clientele, that of origin. We are talking about a national heritage, with capital around EUR 300 billion, so we are talking about a truly important institution. We must start again from here to make an assessment and above all to find guidelines that can be of direction for the Government in the control of one of the major economic realities of our country. We have more or less identified the important points. I'll report some additional items. First of all, in the recent decree save Italy we have imposed the payment of pensions and salaries binding them to banks or Post Office; this has greatly increased the service rendered by this institution, increasing also the relationship with certain social categories, which - even in the moment of the motions accepted on 9 April - will be adequately protected. We are talking about pensioners, elderly people, all the categories most in need of attention. Against this, however, we must point out certain elements. First of all, there is a statement by the European Commission, which has already partially rejected the Poste plan: the part that provides for the delivery of mail every other day has already been rejected by the European Commission, and this, in my opinion, is an important fact, which emphasizes the need for a revision of the plan. The other important element in my opinion is that there have been statements from Consob and that the Government has accepted these commitments in the motions discussed at the beginning of the month. Consob has highlighted an attitude with business profiles by Poste Italiani, very focused on financial activities and speculations, which deviates from its original nature. These commitments will have to be fulfilled to some extent, precisely because they are included in a motion that commits the Government to this end. One of the other key elements concerns the fact that, following the hoped-for stop of implementation of the Poste industrial plan, a series of tables of comparison with local authorities has begun. It is good that the findings from these tables - which, to read the press reports, are quite numerous because the theme is very heard - are actually taken into account. The ANCI shall be convened next time for the month of June. There should therefore be pressure on the Italian Post Office to stick not only to the results of these tables, but also to planning, until consultation is reached as much as is shared by the local authorities. For the other issues, especially with regard to my region, Umbria, we hope for the outcome of this consultation. Personally I will put pressure on my Region to bring all possible reasons for the defense of the offices included in this list for which it is expected to close, that, between Perugia and Terni, are 15, plus 18 that are in regime of alternate opening hours.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u14	GINETTI (PD). Madam President, I should like to thank the Undersecretary, but I too, like my colleagues, have to say that I am partly satisfied with the answer, which in fact is limited to photographing a programme of post office closures for my region, Umbria, but it contributes to the political confrontation on such an important subject, highlighting that in fact tables of comparison and dialogue have been started between the local institutions, municipalities and regions, with Italian Post Office. These tables are working, and in the case of the Umbria Region they are aware of the fact that an important property has been made available in the areas at risk of closure, so there is a maximum availability to prevent that in marginal areas a further reduction of the essential services, especially when they are defined also with universal access, as is the postal service. I would like to point out that if the criterion adopted in the rationalisation and reorganization plan is mainly, if not exclusively, that of the resident population in relation to the points, Umbria has a significant risk factor. This region has less than 900.000 inhabitants and its characteristic is that of having small rural centres. Among other things, if I take into account the whole process of rationalization that concerns the presence of public administrations in the territories, there is a risk of impoverishing regions that already have network characteristics of rural centres. This is without thinking about the mountain municipalities that in a simple map are close to the big cities, but that in reality, due to their conformation, are located at significant distances, especially for the elderly population. Therefore, in thanking for the monitoring and monitoring effort of AGCOM, which led to the suspension of the closure programme, as you, Undersecretary, refer in your response to a consistency that will be guaranteed by the plan with the current legislation, I call on the Government to another coherence, which is the political one. I recall the undertaking made at the hearing in 10a Permanent commission of the Senate by the same CEO of Poste italiani, Francesco Caio: he had formally undertaken to take into account, in the plan of reorganization, the need of the criterion of proximity as a guiding criterion and therefore had undertaken to keep attention to the mountain rural areas and the smaller islands. Another coherence to which I would like to draw the attention of the Government is that of another political commitment, namely the National Strategy for Internal Areas. In the Cohesion and Development Fund, 190 million were allocated to marginal inland areas at risk of depopulation, of which 90 million have already been made operational. These resources are intended to encourage the permanence of essential services, not only for the populations currently resident (in areas at risk of depopulation more than 25% of residents are elderly). These resources are therefore also intended to promote the maintenance of the population, as well as to promote the maintenance of small commercial, tourist and craft activities, which in fact determine the potential economic development of those areas. These are areas that have a great landscape, naturalistic heritage, also given by small villages of particular cultural value for their archaeological, architectural and artistic heritage. There is a considerable effort being made from the point of view of the allocation of economic resources: there are 55 internal areas identified at national level and 23 pilot projects which are starting and which partly coincide with these areas. Therefore, what I ask of the Government is to make the action consistent and find in the measures provided for in the National Strategy for Internal Areas an opportunity to revise the plan of scaling.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u17	FAVERO (PD). Madam President, I too am partly satisfied with the answer. Those who preceded me have already clearly outlined the sufferings and the criticalities that are evident in the case of Oropa. To what has been explained I would add only the speech on the possibility of enjoying alternatives to the post office of Oropa: we speak of a place that has its specificity and uniqueness, being about 1,100 meters above sea level, set among the Alps, a small jewel protected by UNESCO, together with the whole site that surrounds it. Oropa is a tourist destination, with an average of visitors between 500.00 and 800,000 and 20,000 overnight stays per year. We talk about a center with a whole series of services of a artisan character, with restaurants and so on, a center that is where there is a community that also carries out profitable activities of economic character. I would like to point out that the distance between Oropa and the municipality is forty-fifty minutes by car, so it is really unimaginable to think of forcing tourists who stay in Oropa to go to a nearby municipality to do operations even as simple as a postal cancellation, given the many significant events that come in that organized reality, including - for example - the Stock Exchange of devotional and cultural paths. We know that bureaucrats often merely look at locations on a map and then track distances with a ruler. I would urge these bureaucrats, who carry out their work at the table, to perhaps go to areas affected by cuts of this type, because for those living in the mountains and on the hills services are scarce and it is already tiring. I remember that, through some actions of the Government, also recalled by my colleague Ginetti, we have tried to put in place strategies so that certain territories do not become exhausted. If, however, essential services such as postal services are eliminated, which often help and comfort the elderly, who are the most inhabited and rooted in the territory, as well as the small or large activities that can be carried out on the margins of certain areas, the same possibility of repopulating certain territories is hit. Given that Italy has a great prevalence of small municipalities which, at this moment, are struggling and organized, through the action of the ANCI and, in particular for the mountain municipalities, of the UNCEM, I urge the Government to support all the proposals and the solicitations arrived at this moment. It becomes really problematic that, on the part of Poste italiani, we do not take into account the difficulties that the citizen encounters every day in the performance of his activity, in his life and in his work, leaving out the solicitations coming from the citizens themselves through the local authorities, which are making their voice heard through the associations and the confrontation in the State-Regions Conference.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u18	Following is the question 3-01706 on the risk of closing the birth point of Sulmona, in the province of L'Aquila. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u19	Madam President, Senators, on 16 December 2010 at the State-Regions Conference, the agreement was signed between the Government, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, the Provinces, the Municipalities and the Mountain Communities, on the document concerning guidelines for the promotion and improvement of quality, safety and the appropriateness of assistance in the birth process and for the reduction of cesarean cutting. This agreement has committed all the Regions (including those in the plan of return from the health deficit) to implement the ten lines of action for the redefinition of the birth path, the first of which has foreseen precisely the closure of the birth points (which is the topic of the question), with a volume of activity less than 500 parts per year and the adoption - I quote - of "stringent criteria for the reorganization of the welfare network, fixing the number of at least 1.000 parts per year as a parameter to strive for in the years 2010-2013, as a measure aimed at ensuring the safety of both the mother and the newborn, since - as the dossier that has founded the choice and the definition of this document of guidelines - a low volume of activity does not allow to ensure adequate levels of competence of the staff working in these structures. The agreement, which identifies two levels of welfare complexity of the hospital units of obstetrics-gynecology and neonatology-intensive neonatal-pediatric therapy, contains, in annex, all the operational, safety and technological standards to which the Regions must conform in the path of redefinition of the birth points. These standards are also specifically referred to by the regulation on standards, namely quality, structural, technological and quantitative, relating to hospital care, whose adoption process, already approved in the State-Regions Conference, is being finalised. This regulation refers exactly to the 2014-2016 Health Pact, approved in 2014 and incorporated - as is well known - into this year's Stability Act. The lines of action contained in the above agreement also oblige the Regions to activate the maternal assisted transport system (synthesized in the acronym STAM) and the emergency transport system of the newborn (synthesized in the acronym STEN), as well as to increase the supply of childbirth in analgesia. The agreement provided for the establishment of a permanent coordination function for the birth path (called the National Birth Route Committee) and a similar function at the level of each individual autonomous region and province, as well as at the level of each health structure, on the basis of the regional organization. The importance and criticality of the topic have led to important choices, leading the Committee to consider the essential levels of assistance, in the context of the verification of the requirements that allow access to the so-called premia quota of the National Health Service and its fund, a specific point of assessment precisely on the organization of the birth path. Therefore, according to the documentation sent to the National Route Committee and the Committee of Essential levels of assistance (LEA), it is clear that the Abruzzo region has transposed the agreement of 16 December 2010 and has constituted the Regional Route Committee in the years 2011 and 2012. In 2012 the Committee of Regional Birth Routes drew up a document on the reorganization of birth points, which defines the establishment of three second level centres (located in Pescara, Chieti and L'Aquila) and four first level centres (located in Avezzano, Lanciano, Vasto, Teramo and Sant'Omero) and the closure, instead, of four birth points (in Sulmona, Ortona, Penne and Atri), as structures with volumes of activity below or just over 500 parts per year. The Region, with the closure of these four birth points, would reach the standards, indicated in the draft regulation for the hospital network, relative to the catchment areas for the discipline of obstetrics and gynecology with birth points. In 2013, according to the report of the Region to the LEA Committee, the four birth points with less than 500 parts per year would still be active. The above agreement provided for temporary derogations from the closure of these types of structure in the more part of the reorganization of the birth points, on the basis of real difficulties or difficulties of a geographical and orogeographic type, provided that all the criteria and standards identified for the first level birth points are guaranteed. With the decree n. 10 of 11 February 2015, bearing the theme of the reorganization of the birth points, it is entrusted to the directors general of the health companies the action of all the acts related to the reorganization of the birth path, as defined in the technical document annexed to the resolution, and are invited the aforementioned to define and transmit, within sixty days from the communication of the measure, precisely the chronoprogram relative to the structural adjustment of the birth points. It is evident the delay with which the Abruzzo region is proceeding to the reorganization of the birth points, postponed to dates still indefinite. Moreover, the information provided by the Region regarding the standards and requirements of four birth points with less than 500 parts per year (Penne, Atri, Sulmona and Ortona) shows numerous and critical deficiencies compared to the organizational, technological and safety standards provided by the agreement, which pose serious questions on the level of safety for the mother and the newborn, which daily news reports I would say to the attention of the Government and the Parliament. And I remember what happened yesterday, not in this region, but in Calabria, and a few weeks ago in Sicily. The number of annual parts required is necessary not for mere purposes of economic efficiency, but for the need for the staff present and operating at a point of birth to have the possibility to follow a large and numerous case study able to guarantee the permanence and also the strengthening of their professional skills. This is essential in order to be able to respond appropriately, efficiently and in a timely manner to any emergency that may arise. An adequate experience allows the correct classification of patients and the correct management of the same, protecting both the mother and the unborn. Regarding the specific birth point of Sulmona, it is specified that it is located at a distance of about 65 kilometers from the hospital garrison of L'Aquila, in which it is expected to maintain a second level birth point. On this issue, the Abruzzo region, through the prefecture of the government of L'Aquila, pointed out the following. The indicators of clinical effectiveness reveal significant criticalities, which need broad actions in the social and health fabric of the Abruzzo region: the critical percentage of the prevalence of Cesarean cuts; the existence of birth points with 500 parts per year; the very limited availability of peridural analgesia in labor in the structures of this Region. The adoption of a regional measure of rationalization of the birth points has happened - as already remembered - with the commissioner decree n. 10 of 2015, which represents the path of strategic and operational programming of the birth points of the Abruzzo region, in order to optimize the available resources, improve the quality of the assistance and integrate the network services between hospital and territory. The definition of birth points is an element of the process of reorganisation of the hospital and territorial network to ensure high levels of security. In the hospital headquarters where the birth point is present, the presence of dedicated operating rooms must be considered in a binding way, complying with the requirements of the regional regulations in force in the matter of authorisation and accreditation and able to satisfy the increase of the number of parts previewed with the new structure; labor rooms conform to the requirements of the guidelines ISPESL of the year 2007; personnel according to the standards of the decree of commissioner n. 49 of 8 October 2012, entitled "Lines of regional direction in the matter of determination of the organic endowments of the local health companies". The decree n. 10 of 2015, cited several times, stipulates that, in the phase of rationalization and progressive reduction of the birth points, all the relevant and necessary health activities are guaranteed in order to accompany in safety and appropriate all the pregnancies until the time of childbirth, which will be insured at the birth point of territorial afference or free choice of the woman. It also instructs the Directors-General of the local health units to take the relevant measures related to the reorganisation of birth points, in accordance with the technical content set out in the document annexed to the decree.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u22	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Mr De Filippo, of course, I am not satisfied with the answer, but that is not why I did not listen to you and share what, according to the standards, you have told us. In this case I would like to point out first of all that security is not given by numbers, because logic teaches me that, as in the specific case of the birth point of Sulmona, there are areas and territories impervious, especially in the winter seasons. The Undersecretary spoke of a distance between Sulmona and L'Aquila of 65 kilometers, but the birth point of Sulmona embraces much larger areas, ranging from Castel di Sangro to Roccaraso to Sulmona and, therefore, the distance from the hospital of L'Aquila would begin to become 120 kilometers. I would also like to recall the words of Minister Lorenzin at a recent conference in Roccaraso, when he gave us ten minutes of his time and this great and serious problem was presented to her. The Minister told us that, following the State-Regions agreement of 2010, but also the commissioner's decree of the Abruzzo region of 2015, a technical table could have created, in some respects, I do not say exceptions: for you the important thing is that a department was safe, and also Mr Undersecretary repeated it. I don't feel satisfied, but I have to say that the answer has paved the way for me. This means, at this point, that the Abruzzo region must take note of the serious difficulty that would be created with the closure of the point of birth of Sulmona and make sure that it is expected - with financial resources not excessive, also because a new construction of the hospital in Sulmona has been announced in the coming years - a department of obstetrics and gynecology and neonatology, precisely to ensure safety. Regarding the safety of mother and child, if you knew when to give birth, you could plan the birth, but we know perfectly well that it can happen all of a sudden. And, then, I don't know what security there could be in traveling 100 kilometers, even if there was the STAM STEN agreement - we saw what happened just yesterday in Vibo Valentia - during which you can take the risk that they both lose their lives. In this case, therefore, we must think that numbers can be a parameter in general, but some areas cannot be deprived of structures that guarantee a service to citizens and security. I am from Sulmona, but I speak not out of bell tower, but because I realize the great difficulties there are. Let us not forget that we are also in the province of L'Aquila and that many earthquake areas of that territory, especially in mountain countries, still have great problems to rehabilitate and, therefore, we will go again to create further damage. At this point, I think it really becomes a political problem. The President of the Region will absolutely have to revise this provision and issue a new one, trying to guarantee the security to this community that includes about 130,000 inhabitants. However, this will only be possible if you strengthen Sulmona's birth point, and so we will all be quiet. I thank the Undersecretary, but I would like the Ministry of Health to convey this particular situation to the President of the Abruzzo region. Sulmona's birth point can be saved. I repeat that safety, sometimes, is not made of numbers: it is a logic that makes us understand, as in this case, that the birth point must be left and strengthened.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u23	The following are questions 3-01740, 3-00420, 3-01798 and 3-01886 on the inclusion of tinnitus in the list of diseases in the new LEAs (essential levels of care).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u24	Madam President, Senators, Tinnitus - as you know - is a very frequent otological problem. Studies in the last two luxuries in European countries, such as Germany and the United Kingdom, have shown that, on average, about 10 to 20% of the population of our continent has suffered from tinnitus at least once in their lives. As far as Italy is concerned, following a series of studies, it would appear that in our country there is a prevalence of this otological problem of about 15 percent. Tinnitus consists of endogenous acoustic sensations, in the form of whistles, buzzing, rustling or other, perceived in one or both ears or head. This disorder can affect the quality of life of those who suffer from it, especially at a psychological level, and in the most serious cases it can seriously compromise the well-being of the patient. Clinical research has clearly shown that, in a high proportion of cases, this disorder should be addressed through a therapeutic strategy of which psychotherapy is an integral part. Unfortunately, the cause of tinnitus is unclear in most cases. However, new research techniques and methods, such as neuroimaging techniques, which allow to observe the activation of the areas of the brain involved in the elaboration of acoustic signals, seem to promise important steps forward in understanding the aetiology of the pathology in question. Research centers that study the biological bases of tinnitus in Italy are distributed throughout the national territory and have produced, in recent years, results relevant for the understanding and the potential cure of this pathology. For example, it has been shown that alterations in the connection between different areas of the central nervous system, such as cortex and thalamus, may be at the base of tinnitus in normoacoustic patients. Other studies have identified potential risk factors for the onset of this disease, such as hypertension, body mass index, smoking and hypercholesterolaemia. An analysis of the scientific literature conducted by the Higher Institute of Health shows that both the Mario Negri Institute and the University of Pavia have produced a single article on this pathology in 1988 and 2000 respectively. In order to assess what initiatives to take to manage the health problems related to tinnitus, and in view of the need to further develop research aimed at understanding the physiological bases of the disorder, a careful study of the state of the art of basic and clinical knowledge, obtained through the systematic review of available literature and the examination of scientific discoveries, even the most recent ones, must be carried out. The expertise of the Higher Institute of Health will also be made available to the scientific community to promote research and knowledge of the problems of tinnitus in institutions, research centres and in the same debate which has recently opened in public opinion. Such initiatives are necessary for the assessment of the possible inclusion of tinnitus in the essential levels of assistance, pursuant to Ministerial Decree No 329 of 1999 and subsequent amendments, as chronic crippling disease. In fact, a number of further studies are still needed, linked, for example, to the assessment of the nosological framework not only based on the patient's own self-assessment. At present, it is not, unfortunately, possible to predict the immediate inclusion of tinnitus among chronic and disabling diseases, referred to in Ministerial Decree No 329 of 1999, since it does not constitute a real disease, but is a symptom with different levels of severity, determined by other diseases, also vascular (fistulae of the neck, carotid tumors, intracranial aneurysms or meningeal diseases, diseases of the large vases of the neck) or, more frequently, associated with audiological, vestibular, neurological, autoimmune, cerebrovascular, dysmetabolic and haematological diseases. Moreover, the condition in question does not seem to meet the criteria of inclusion provided for in Legislative Decree No. 124 of 1998 (which provides for gravity, disability and the honesty of the treatment), and it would be difficult to identify the benefits that can be provided on an exemption (appropriate for the monitoring of the disease and the prevention of exacerbations and complications). Moreover, it is recalled that patients with tinnitus are protected by the National Health Service through the essential levels of care and that most of the conditions determining tinnitus are already included among the diseases provided for in Ministerial Decree No 329 of 1999, for which there is an exemption from participation at the cost of the relevant specialist services.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u27	PHASE (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank the Secretary-General for his reply. Personally, I am partially satisfied. This symptom, very annoying, is sometimes determined by multifactorial causes. If there is a underlying disease, there is no problem with the exemption of the ticket and the facilitations. The problem exists, however, when, and it is the majority of cases, the cause is unknown. I ask you to guarantee the essential levels of assistance, the specialist otorino visits and the various therapies that can be used by the affections that are really numerous; as you said, you go from 10 to 20 percent of people who suffer from this disease. It is a source of great discomfort in everyday life. Many of us may live with it and get used to living with tinnitus, but it is very difficult and, above all, there are cases of gravity that must be recognized as an exemption.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u30	Mr Pagliari (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank the Secretary for his reply, but I must say that I am dissatisfied, because I see it as a logical vacuum. In fact, when the pathology is derived from other pathology, it is evident that there is coverage. No one denies, however, even in the answer, that tinnitus can be a primary disease or in any case a disease whose origins are unknown. I do not think, therefore, that it can be assumed that patients should wait until the development of science guarantees the precise investigation of the causes of tinnitus for assistance. I understand there may be a problem of not assisting those who milk the disease, but there is a problem of assisting those who do not milk the disease. In this respect, I consider the answer to be unsatisfactory.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u33	GRANAIOLA (PD). Madam President, I am partially satisfied because, while the Ministry has understood that supporting a study and research plan in the field of tinnitus is urgent, I must admit that the studies available to the Higher Institute of Health and the University of Pavia are now outdated. Probably, indeed, we would certainly need more up-to-date studies. I am partially satisfied, because recognizing this disease as chronic crippling disease, for the most serious cases, would have meant understanding its severity. The symptoms of this disease can lead even to suicide, as they undermine the psychological structure of sleep-wake rhythm, level of attention, concentration and relationship life. Therefore, it is a very serious symptom and therefore to underestimate it, considering that 5 million people in Italy really suffer from it, it would be a serious mistake. And I do not think it is enough to acknowledge that some associated concomitant diseases are covered by the National Health Service because perhaps - as Senator Pagliari rightly said - we should start to consider it as a real illness in itself, which needs studies, research and assistance.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u36	CUCCA (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for his reply, but I too am dissatisfied with the same reasons that Senator Pagliari has just explained. Among other things, the response, beyond the initiatives that could be taken, does not emerge much. And, in fact, it seems to me that there is nothing concrete in view to remedy it and give adequate answers to the questions that come from all those suffering from this disease. It is still very little known and we do not think that there is any prospect - I repeat - of the Ministry's forthcoming actions to find a solution to the very serious problems of a disease that is becoming increasingly widespread. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The questioning and questioning of the agenda is thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u37	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-441.ana.u38	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 5 May, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.15 p.m.
