ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u3	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time), pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, on profiles for the implementation of labour market reform and measures in the field of social security, to which the Minister for Labour and Social Policy Poletti will respond. It should be noted that RAI's live television is underway. Let us now turn to questions on the implementation profiles of labour market reform. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u6	Parent (PD). Minister, today in Italy we have a great opportunity to really reform the working system in the direction of active policies, both in access routes and in relocation. With such a high rate of youth unemployment, it is essential that our girls and our boys have confidence in the institutions and services at work when they are looking for employment, to take a first approach to work and not to become discouraged. Only by creating opportunities and opportunities can the doors for personal realization in the workplace be opened in a responsible and autonomous way. I would therefore ask you, Minister, to look forward to the youth guarantee, precisely in the direction of the confidence of young people who are discouraged in approaching the system of services offered, and as the system has responded so far. In particular, I would ask you to report on the possible synergies between the Youth Guarantee and the other active policies developed by the Regions, and even if there are data on the creation of young people's businesses. Similarly, for people who lose their jobs, it is interesting to understand how the system of services will be organised, especially in the creation of a national employment agency, because the relocation contract, just approved in the legislative decree implementing jobs act, is an opportunity to realize the principle of conditionality, compared to the real willingness to find another job and move the center of labour policies from passive to active ones.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u9	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, by saying that the implementation of the jobs act aims at the abolition, from 1 January 2016, of the project contract for the moment only in the private sector, these measures are justified by the desire to eliminate the precariousness and ensure greater stability for workers. Instead, we wanted to preserve, because it is adapted to the economic and employment context of our country, what has been achieved through the Biagi law, such as co.co.pro., able to make our labour market flexible and easier the entry of young people into the world of work. Given that from the latest ISTAT data for February, the unemployment rate has risen to 12.7%, rising compared to January; that an even more alarming figure is youth unemployment, which still reaches 42.6 per cent in February, an increase of 1.3% compared to the previous month, we ask the Minister if he does not believe that the elimination of project contracts, with which some 500 000 workers are currently employed, does not result in a further increase in unemployment, especially youth unemployment, and an objective, further difficulty in accessing the labour market. We also ask whether it considers that, in this respect, the overall job-act system has the effect of creating new recruitments or merely transforming existing flexible contracts into permanent contracts with increasing safeguards.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u12	PUGLIA (M5S). Minister, with Law No 18 of 10 December 2014, commonly called jobs act, you have self-delegated to adopt one or more legislative decrees aimed, in the final analysis, at resolving the Italian employment problem. In my opinion - and unfortunately I am not the only one who thinks so, and then there are also the data - you intend to destroy, once and for all, our economic fabric composed of small businesses and workers, selling it abroad, as you did with currency. We'll fight you. Minister, in view of the fact that paragraph 4 of Article 1 lists principles and guiding criteria to be followed by the Government in order to reorder the legislation on labour services and active policies, one wonders what the Government plans to rationalise the recruitment incentives for those who are less likely to find employment, considering that the only thing you have done is to remove the structural benefits for the recruitment of the long-term unemployed, which were provided for by Article 8 (9) of Law No 407. In addition, with the introduction of the new contract indefinitely, but at decreasing risks - let us call it in its substance - you have further insecure Italy and, even more serious, you have extended the discipline of the dismissal easy also to the collective ones, who fooled the opinion that Parliament had expressed in the Commission work. Now, paragraph 7 of Article 1 delegates the Government to rearrange existing employment contracts. Even here it will be a social massacre, and I already know it. But will you always proceed this time without taking account of the representatives of the people and, therefore, of Parliament? Tell us before, so we don't waste time on the Commission's work. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, Senator. PUGLIA (M5S). I'll ask you for a moment, and I'm done. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There are times to be respected. PUGLIA (M5S). I'm done. Tell us first so that we do not waste time in the Commission working to seek a dialogue with the other political parties.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u15	SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Minister, we have contributed to the drafting of the draft delegation law, commonly called jobs act, and we are therefore urging you here to give full effect to it, namely that all the delegations described therein be implemented through the appropriate delegated decrees. The time is short. You should deliver the decrees delegated to the Chambers, for the expression of their opinions, within six months of the date of entry into force of the law, and therefore to 16 June 2015, even if you have the possibility of another three months, and then until 16 September, in relation to the time of delivery to the Chambers themselves. In a specific way, however, I would like to draw your attention to the need to give full implementation also to delegations, which perhaps have been less talked about during this period, such as the minimum wage, which is not only a protection for segments of workers who are not today protected by collective bargaining, but is also a useful institution to reform collective bargaining, pushing it as far as possible in the corporate or territorial headquarters. On the other hand, there is the simplified single text, which should bring together all the provisions on employment relationships and contractual types. It was the President-in-Office of the Council who spoke from the beginning of a single text that was simplified and translated into English. In this respect, I would remind you that, in order to have a single text that can be translated into English, it is enough to refer strictly to the Community regulation, which is already expressed in English. In short, do you intend to fully implement the delegations, including the two issues I have mentioned?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u18	BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Mr Minister, as you will know, it has been weeks since the workers of Fincantieri have been strike en masse in all Italian shipyards: they defend democracy with struggle and decent work. In these days, we have all read - so I think you too - microchips to be inserted into the boots or helmets of the workers, half an hour more of free work that they should do and of relocations. The news, if it is confirmed - and I ask you to do so - would be serious, and paradoxically even more, as we speak - I remember - of a company with public participation. I still remember that a few days ago Europe severely rejected the remote control of workers. That is why, Minister, I invite you and ask you to convene the parties, companies and trade unions immediately, partly because I am aware that the trade union has already asked for a meeting, but has not yet received an answer. I believe that the struggle, when it is democratic and dignified, must be respected. You, Minister, must therefore accept these requests. He owes it to the world of work and to the workers.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u21	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Minister, a few days ago you announced with some emphasis and satisfaction that 70,000 new contracts would be activated indefinitely. The ratio of the first two months of this year to 2014 seems favorable, so much so that - but always according to the data of his ministry - it would be an increase of 38 percent of this type of contracts. As a League, we have always expressed a great deal of concern about the contract that you define as growing protections, and that seems to us more like a funded fixed-term contract. We call it financed because, after the age of tax advantages, the new recruit can be fired: it is enough to compensate him with the famous two monthly payments for each year worked. We are concerned because we think that there will be some unemployment at the end of all tax benefits, which we have estimated to be between EUR 9,000 and EUR 18,000, considering both the decontribution and the discharge of the IRAP. A first question is the following, if you can answer honestly: of these 79,000 new recruitments, how many are really new recruitments and how many others have been camouflaged and were previously fixed-term relationships? What is the government's line? Does the Government intend to make the reduction of labour costs structural, because this is the only way and the only way to avoid, at the end of these tax advantages, still having so many young people substantially unemployed? PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Mr Poletti, has the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u22	Mr President, Senators, thank you for the questions you have asked me, to which I shall try to give an answer in the most effective way possible and sufficiently concise. Senator Parente asked a question about the Youth Guarantee programme, its implementation, its connection with the actions that are generally developed to promote youth employment and, in particular, new entrepreneurial activities, new businesses and start-ups supported by young people. The data we can give, referring to the survey of 3 April, tell us that the Youth Guarantee program is now registered 491,000 young people, of which 15,000 have registered only in the last week. It continues, therefore, a trend that we consider positive and very balanced, which sees every week the systematic entry of a number of young people between 10,000 and 12,000. In the last week there has been an extra day and the number of young people is, therefore, up to 15,000. I would say, however, that the number has basically stabilized. Of these 491,000 young people, 64,000 have been cancelled or cancelled due to lack of requirements, self-deletion or non-submission to interviews. There is, therefore, a certain percentage of young people who, for different reasons, after registering, disappear. For example, the lack of requirements can be a daughter of the fact that, fortunately, some of them find a job and being busy can no longer use the program. Then there are other situations of this kind. Employment services accounted for some 244,000 young people. Also in this case there is a trend now stabilized, in the order of 8,000-10,000 young people that every week are profiled and taken over by the services for the employment of the different regional realities of our country. In addition, more than 65,000 young people have been launched for implementing measures. Of course, the number is growing at this stage, because the regions, which are the agencies that manage the programmes, first started the structural part of profiling and activating the report and then activated the measures, which of course started months later, and therefore begin to have a response today. Let us consider - for example - that, within these measures, there is civil service, which is developing right now. From the point of view of the elements in our possession, we can say that the Regions, which they had and which have in progress specific programmes to promote the employability of young people, have integrated these projects with the Youth Guarantee project. We have projects in Lombardy, Piedmont, Emilia-Romagna and Tuscany. This also leads us to have some problematic elements in the punctual reading of the data. Since they are managed jointly, we need to distinguish between the subsidiary actions of the Youth Guarantee programme and those of the active policies of the different regions. This is an uneven situation at national level but, where there are actions of the Regions in this respect, they are normally coordinated between the Youth Guarantee Programme and the Activation Programme of the Regions. As far as the creation of enterprises by young people is concerned, I think it might be useful to mention the fact that 17 regions have used the promotion of self-employment and self-entrepreneurship as a measure within the Youth Guarantee. The Valle d'Aosta, Piemonte and Trento didn't do it. In these cases there are specific reasons: in some situations the Regions have already taken their own measures and, therefore, have decided not to use them within the Youth Guarantee. The regions totaled EUR 94 million for this measure. This is the amount of resources allocated: the measures are currently being activated and, therefore, we do not yet have return data, but we know that this is the situation that has occurred. The last consideration I would like to make with respect to Senator Parente's questions concerns the issue of services. It is clear that for us, in Italy in general, Youth Guarantee was also an opportunity to bring employment services to develop an action that, historically, they had never developed. Observations can legitimately be made from this point of view, but 244,000 young people who have presented themselves to the employment centres, who have had a profiling and must be followed or assisted, are certainly an important fact, in the future. We have, that is, something precious in our hands: a database, a relational system, which is all material, on which we must work. Therefore, we intend to develop the work of employment centres by strengthening them, in order to be able to better manage this type of situation in the future. With regard to the question posed by Senator Pelino, I would like to say, very briefly, that the Government has made a choice, with respect to the delegation law and therefore to the interventions it is carrying out, including the re-determination of contracts (the theme that was proposed with respect to project collaboration), with a logic that looks fundamentally in two directions: the first is the improvement of the quality of work and its stabilization. From this point of view, we therefore think that the interventions that we have carried out on the regulatory and, at the same time, on the decontribution and on the fiscal plane, removing from the basis of calculation IRAP the cost of labour from contract of employment to indefinite time, produce this result, that is a significant transfer from contracts to fixed term, from collaborations to project and from other types of contract to contracts for indefinite time. From this point of view, therefore, we think that the transition from precarious contracts or time contracts to permanent contracts is a useful and important thing that should have been favoured. Of course, we also hope that, in addition to a transfer of contracts, there will be additional new employment contracts. The rule does not produce new employment contracts - this seems to me quite obvious - but we think that having an indefinite contract puts people in a position to have a relationship with their lives and their own freedom of choice better than those they had before with precarious contracts and in time. Banally, you can get a mortgage or make a choice that guarantees better or makes you better imagine your life perspective. This should also improve the conditions of our country's domestic consumption and be one of the elements that, together with others, can produce a general improvement. We therefore think that new jobs can be created by this route as well. With respect to Senator Puglia's comments, I do not think I can actually agree on the consideration that a further precariousisation has occurred, because the fact is that, in the start-ups to work in previous years, 85% of contracts were fixed-term contracts, collaborations and other similar types, and only 15% were open-ended contracts. I therefore believe that having put in place an intervention, which has regulated this matter and has led to an impact on the level of decontribution and cost modification, on the fiscal level of IRAP, cannot lead to the assertion that there is a greater precariousness. We don't think you can make a consideration like this. I am also wondering what initiatives we intend to develop in relation to the issue of the long-term unemployed. On this front, we have prepared three types of intervention. The starting point is that - in our opinion - the opening up of the labour market, as far as I have just finished saying, is also an opportunity for people who are unemployed for the longer term. We then put in place an action, which is what we are preparing for the new decrees, which concerns active policies and the reorganization of incentives. It is true that there has been the abolition of a previous type of intervention, but today we think of combining the take-over through the relocation contracts and a specific incentive, because the sum of these two actions and the structural change of the type of contract should favour the possibility of insertion to the job also of the people who are in this type of situation. With regard to the question of whether we will take into account the opinions of the Commissions, the Government has always acted and intends to act in accordance with the regulatory provisions, and of course takes responsibility for the decisions it will take. It will use and evaluate the opinions of the Commissions, as the law proposes, and, on the basis of its own assessments, will use them in its final decisions. With regard to the choice that will be made, it will of course be evaluated and considered by the public, as well as by the Members themselves. With regard to what Senator Sacconi asks, that is, the Government's intention to fully exercise all the powers conferred by the law in the time that it establishes, I confirm that the Government has the intention to do so fully. From this point of view, the state of affairs is well known. We intend to proceed, according to the timetable, to complete this delegation for the part that refers to the issue of simplification of working relationships. We have already done the part relating to contracts and we must do the part relating to employment relations. It is our intention to proceed in this way. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Minister, you should finish. Mr Poletti, Minister for Labour and Social Policy. As regards the case of the contract and the minimum wage, the same response is valid because it relates to the full application of the delegation. As for Fincantieri, I give a very dry answer. We believe that the parties must play their part and confront each other. I am talking about the social partners, the trade union and the representation of the company. The laws are there. I am thinking of remote controls: they must be respected and applied and no one can think of himself out of the ordinary. If and where there is a need for government intervention, this is ready to intervene so that all that is foreseen is respected. The last consideration concerns...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u23	Minister, you have largely outdone your time. Now we have to move on to the reruns. [[Comments of the Divine Senator]] You will be able to complete your reply within ten minutes for the next questions. They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u26	Parent (PD). I am pleased with the Minister's reply, partly because he has provided very significant data on the trend of young people who sign up weekly, and he has also spoken of those who sign up for the ones who are being taken over. I am satisfied because for the Government it is also an opportunity - as the Minister said - to provide Italy with a true system of active policies and efficient work services. We hope that as soon as possible there will be the decree implementing the jobs act on the active policies and on the organization of the National Agency for Employment, which will be able to put everything in place and can really intervene for the needs of young people who seek work and for those who lose it with the placement contracts, as I mentioned before.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u29	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, I appreciate your optimism and your well-thought but, because of the economic conditions of the country, I must reiterate that the flexibility introduced by the Biagi law met at the same time two requirements that still exist today. Firstly, it gave businesses an instrument capable of sustaining their business costs by adapting them to their productive performance and, secondly, promoting employment and access for young people in the world of work. There is no prejudice against stability, but it is a principle that cannot be easily achieved, as things stand. Therefore, the most appropriate choice would have been to keep contracts flexible.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u32	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr Minister, I am not at all convinced of your answers, partly because, with regard to the precariousness of Italy, which I stress again, it has led to data that, in the past, there were more fixed-term contracts. It is obvious that, if I transform, through the jobs act, the contract of indefinite duration into contract now without more protection, to decreasing risks, the same contract of indefinite duration becomes precarious. With regard to facilitations and Law No 407 of 1990, as we have said several times in the Commission, suspend the effectiveness, but do not go to remove a benefit that was structural. This is a 1990 benefit, which no longer needed to be subject to the constraint of balance of the budget within the Constitution. You've really made a big mistake.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u35	SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Minister, I am pleased that your answer has been clear and explicit. The Government intends to give full implementation to the jobs act, in which everything is held. I am pleased that you want to introduce the minimum wage, defined, that is, according to the law, and to implement the single text, namely the new statute for workers. The workers' statute has already been modified in some fundamental contents, but the bill gives you the possibility to replace it with a single innovative text, not merely compiled (i.e. existing rules), combining it with the delegations to simplification, but such as to give us a simple regulatory system, certainly, hopefully applied, that encourages the propensity to do work in such a difficult time.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u38	BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Minister, I didn't understand much of what you said. If the parties had made a deal, we wouldn't be here talking. The workers have been striking for weeks. I call on you, therefore, once again to convene the parties, because I believe that the government must assume this responsibility. Otherwise, we're talking fried air here. And I'm not capable of talking about fried air, but about facts.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u41	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, for the first time I cannot be angry with the Government because it did not answer me, since it was not because of the will of the Minister, but because it was prevented from doing so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister will have the opportunity to integrate his response in the time available for the next speech. DIVINE (LN-Aut). President, I hope you'll be more generous in leaving the last few minutes to the government to respond. At this point I can only tell you, Minister, what we think. The government has put into practice an action of very little effectiveness. It is true that there has been a small recovery, but it has depended on external factors. For example, the ECB's manoeuvres have made it possible to have very low-priced money and, therefore, the cost of our debt is almost zero; the exchange rate between the dollar and the euro is very favourable for those who export; the price of oil is at the historic lows. We could also define these three factors as an astral conjunction of favorable and beneficial ones. Those who exported had big benefits, so something set in motion. But the astral conjunctions, Minister, do not last forever: we must also put in place some of our effective internal action.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u42	The respect of the times is also due to the live television, to prevent the last speaker from doing so when the connection is no longer there.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u45	ICHINO (PD). Mr President, I was wondering if the Minister could come back to the final point of the Senator Parente's question concerning the link between the relocation contract and cross-compliance, which I think is very important on the ground of the restructuring of employment services. On the other hand, the question of social security is as follows: Unfortunately, we arrived only in 2011 with two decades behind the time that would have been needed, the necessary measures for the financial rebalancing of our pension system. This has made it necessary to do things in a very fast time and without that graduality that would have allowed to implement the measures that, in the most advanced countries of ours, go under the title of active ageing, active ageing. And it is not only administrative measures, but also an active ageing culture. So, I wonder if, in the face of the problem of those who are fifty-sixty years old and who have more difficulty finding new employment than those who are younger, the solution should not be to include an extension of unemployment insurance linked to measures to promote active ageing. This, of course, is entirely alternative to what is demanded by other political parties, i.e. to go back to the 2011 reform. On this point, however, I believe that the Government must put in place a design that has not yet been fully expressed and I ask, in this regard, for the direction of the Minister and the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u48	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, given that the reforms that have taken place since 1992 (the so-called Amato reforms, Christophers, up to the Fornero reform), while on the one hand they have increased the fiscal sustainability of the Italian pension system in the long term, on the other they have introduced parameters of great rigidity, strongly penalising in particular for older workers, who have seen the prospect of retirement drift away. Given that the system, although economically sustainable and characterised by strong inequality and generational imbalances, with workers forced to continue their activities in order to meet the minimum requirements that are periodically increased and young people who struggle to enter the labour market and build a social security career that can guarantee them an adequate pension, we ask the Minister what criteria will guide the Government in the pension reform that has been announced several times in recent months and no longer extendable. In particular, we are asking whether a pension anticipation mechanism for those who lose their jobs and are close to retirement is actually feasible, even considering the European Union's opposition to the specific issue. We are also asking how many workers who have been exposed to unemployment must still be protected, after six interventions involving some 170,000 people, against spending more than EUR 11 billion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u51	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr Poletti, despite our report in the Committee on Employment, which is also included in our minority report, the problem of the serious economic damage caused to seasonal workers has not been resolved. This type of workers - over 400,000 - will have, because of your choices, further instability and precariousness; precariousness that this Government has accentuated with the jobs act. Seasonal workers will no longer be able to cover their income throughout the year, as was the case before, as they will receive the allowance for half of the months worked. Basically, anyone who could work six months before could cover the other six with a certain subsidy. From 1 May the so-called NASPI will remove this right, pursuant to Article 5 of Legislative Decree No 22 of 4 March 2015. In short, half benefit and doubled insecurity. This will impoverish families and cities that live mainly on tourism. For this reason, next April 14 will be in Rome a great event of the sector. In addition, workers are very concerned as employers could even hire with the new contract to increase protection - or, better, increasing dismissals - and link it to a vertical part-time, attracted by the contributory exemption introduced in the Stability Act, and then suspend the worker for six months, denying it also to benefit from the three months of NASPI. This would be a very serious matter. Minister, you yourself stated even before the reform of labour did not create work, but failed to say that you had taken away the rights and forms of economic guarantee from workers: a form of income guarantee that we in the 5 Star Movement are carrying out forcefully in the Commission work through our proposal of citizenship income. This is an active and universal measure of true protection of the citizen, equity and social justice. This would really adapt Italy to the models of flexibility and security of the main European countries. Minister, outside these classrooms there is a great need for certain and clear answers. Nine million citizens live in precariousness and serious daily difficulties. Minister, I ask that this Government take a clear and clear position before the Italians on our proposal for citizenship income and I also ask what it intends to do to resolve the serious, very serious problem of seasonal workers.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u54	SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr Minister, a very short queue compared to the previous dialogue, tell me a yes or a no: will the single text of the work be done? [[Mr Poletti made a point of assent.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u55	For those who listen to us, the Minister replied in the affirmative.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u56	SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). He said yes. With regard to the social security system, we can judge the Fornero reform at least incomplete: it introduces the contributory method, but it does not deduce all the consequences. Does it intend to complete it, with particular reference to the free reunion of all contributory periods, why not one euro set aside should be lost? I would also like to know what he thinks about: flexibility of exit age on a contribution basis (just because I take it on the basis of what I paid); voluntary payments by the employer as well as by the worker, even beyond the period worked so that I can cover as much as possible the periods of non-work at a time when the discontinuity of work can, unfortunately, be frequent; possibility of voluntary payments for the recovery of study periods that are more modulated, not at a single size, in the logic of contribution (more towards and more I will have); incentives for these payments that are even more encouraging to the influx of social security savings also to the so-called first pillar of compulsory provision; complementarity between the pillars, between the mandatory one and the two volunteers, the collective one and the individual one, so that it is always possible, under certain conditions to strengthen the first pension, the fundamental one, also by translating resources from the two pillars of voluntary character to the one of compulsory nature.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u59	BENCINI (Mixed). Minister, in view of the fact that the annual requirement for the calculation of the retirement age is being extended annually by three months, more or less in line with European policy, by virtue of the longer life expectancy, I believe that serious consideration should be given to this issue. While living longer on the one hand, it is equally true that quality of life has deteriorated and decreases as age progresses. Just think about the diseases and all the inconveniences related simply to seniority. I am afraid that with the definition adopted by Senator Ichino, of active ageing, we refer to people who have to work up to an age that is too mature, that is, in old age, and this I absolutely do not agree with. I wonder whether it is not necessary to put workers at a reasonable age in quiescence with respect to their role, i.e. to review a whole series of weary jobs, which cannot be catalogued only on the basis of hours, such as those who do night work: it is also necessary to have regard to the workload, understood as a physical burden for the subject and the personal and social risk that work entails. Among the categories excluded from wear and tear work, for example, there are social workers and nurses, such as me and many others in Italy. To date, my pension will be calculated at sixty-seven years and nine months and I believe it is an age not compatible with the work done. I think when I go to the O.R., I'm gonna need the navigator to figure out where I'm going and what vein to take. Work must be guaranteed, but quality work must be guaranteed. This is possible mainly through a healthy generational replacement. In other words, this can be done by automatically updating working skills, i.e. in step with time. In addition, better welfare policies are needed to ensure generational replacement. I recall, in fact, that to date women, in percentage terms, are employed less than men, also because they have to cope with more jobs: the work they do, if they have it, in addition to the family burden (care of children and care of the elderly). I therefore ask you what action the Government intends to take in this direction with regard to the pension system.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u62	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV)). Minister, crying crocodile tears is a common saying in Italy and refers to those who pretend to feel displeasure when in reality they are disinterested or worse, pleased, compared to the fact that it causes pain to someone. The saying originates from the myth that crocodiles would shed tears of repentance after killing their preys and devouring them. Thus, the former Minister of Labour Fornero, with his reform of the social security system, after having devoured the social security expectation of millions of Italian workers who could no longer retire and after having so copiously increased the general unemployment (arrived over 13.5%), in particular the youth one (arrived beyond 43.5%) and even more the one in the South (which is about 70 percent), has determined a real generational jump: in more or less five years a substantial slice of thirty years has failed to find work. On the other hand, another generation, from sixty to sixty-seven years of age, had to lengthen its work by law, with an increase of one fifth, i.e. 20 percent, from 95 to over 110. In this context, you, the Minister, cried crocodile tears at that famous press conference with President Monti, but to cry left above all these young people. Other than active ageing; we need our children to be active, young people to find work, especially in health care, research, school, public administration, manufacturing, where there are Italian excellences. If these guys leave them there, they can't find a chance to bring that cultural baggage. Minister, for every two years it is as if a century has passed: it seems that the sixty-year-olds live in a medieval period made of burnings and witches, are no longer suitable for these times. We need these forces to relaunch development in Italy, neither more nor less than what happened in 1984, when the Minister of Labour was De Michelis and President of the Council Bettino Craxi and Italy became the fifth economic power in the world. That is what we need to do, so we need to review this quota and lower it to give jobs to young people.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u65	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr. President, I'm staying on the Fornero law, too. We know what this sad reform has basically raised the retirement age for all Italians. I make one point: 650,000 Italians have signed a referendum for the repeal of this law and unfortunately our Supreme Court has made a speech more of merit than of legitimacy, because it is not up to the Court to determine whether it is right or not to cancel a reform. Despite everything, the Fornero law provided a window for those who left work before the age of sixty-two; it was enough to be forty-two years and one month of contributions and accept the famous penalty, i.e. the reduction of 2% for each year if you left before the age of sixty-two. What has happened in the meantime? The 2015 Stability Act, passed last year, provides that in the three-year period 2015-2017 they will be able to retire without penalty all those who will have fulfilled the requirements of forty-two years and six months. The law of stability - it is a fact - cannot have retroactive effects, so now we are with those who came out before December 31, 2014 that has a penalty of 2% and those who retire this year or the next two without penalties. For our part, Minister, we believe that appeals will be inevitable, because there is an inevitable difference in treatment and perhaps there is also a violation of the constitutional principle of equality. At this point we wonder whether it is not necessary to suspend the penalty in order to unravel the skein, avoid costs and recourses, but above all to avoid this unequal treatment between people who retire a day before or a day later. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Mr Poletti, has the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u66	Mr President, I will begin my speech with a final answer to the previous part-session of questions, because I consider it necessary to answer Senator Divina. As the honourable Member correctly stated, permanent recruitment, excluding public administration and domestic work, in the first two months of 2015 were 79,000 more than in the same period of 2014. It is therefore, in essence, a difference between the absolute number of 2014 and 2015. This fact makes it fundamentally impossible to make a punctual analysis to understand whether it is contracts that are being transformed or, rather, new contracts, because we are not talking about the figure of the 79,000 assumptions, which is however the result of a difference. The absolute value is very different. As I said, from this point of view it is not possible to make a specification. I believe, however, that I can still provide some other data: in the first two months of 2015 the new permanent recruitments - with the exclusion of public administration and domestic work - were 303,000 (165,000 in January and 138,000 in February), to which 42,000 changes in fixed-term employment relationships must be added in permanent employment relationships. We are talking here about time contracts, which have become permanent contracts. On the other numbers we cannot make evaluations because the system does not detect the situations of contract or self-employment: it follows that it cannot be known whether a VAT number or a project collaboration contract becomes a fixed-term or an indefinite contract. So, theoretically, we would tell the wrong thing, saying that those people didn't work before and then work, since maybe it was a project or VAT partnership first. For consistency and correctness this is the fact that we can provide. Coming to the subsequent questions concerning the issue of social security, the question of cross-compliance, referred to by Senator Ichino, is clearly very important to us. At a time when a relocation contract is envisaged and therefore the possibility of proposing to a worker to interrupt the enjoyment of a social shock absorber - in this case it would be the NASPI - there must be a concrete possibility of passage, even if we know that then the worker will make his evaluation: if he has to stop enjoying a subsidy like the NASPI to go to do a job that will give him the same type of income, it is obvious that he will prefer to continue to remain in the previous situation. There is therefore a link between the conditions to which the new job is offered and the constraint in terms of obligation: it is clear that, if this is not the case, this mechanism will not tend to work. The issue of conditionality is therefore absolutely essential. In order to avoid passing the time available to me in this second round too, I believe that some answers can apply to all the questions that have been asked to me on the general theme of the Fornero reform, with particular reference to what we are thinking of doing. We think it is necessary to put this situation back on track, because, in fact - and I do not express specific considerations about the reform here - we now see the need to change a number of situations. In particular, we have an obvious social problem: workers who arrive close to the ripening of the retirement requirement, but who are no longer covered by social shock absorbers, risk being in a land of no one, and this must be taken into account. On the one hand, we have tried to tackle this issue by using the Social Security Fund, the unemployment benefit, trying to extend this institution, but the problem remains, so we will have to find a way to deal with it. It is our intention, therefore, to intervene on the issue of pensions. I believe that the time when we will be able to do this can only be the examination of the law of stability, because we would need to quantify and qualify the resources that will be needed to manage the choices that we will eventually go there. Today, therefore, the INPS is engaged in a work of analysis, evaluation, preparation and simulation of possible options to verify which are the most effective ones compared to the economically sustainable objectives. From this point of view we know that we have some constraints or otherwise of the regulatory conditions that we must take absolutely into account and to which we must refer. So we have a social theme, what I was saying, and we have a general theme of outgoing flexibility. This is the other element on which we are practicing, i.e. to assess how this situation can be produced. To this is connected the problem that you have proposed: let's call the generational relay or as we want, we still have a theme of connection between output or overturning of a logic. I say it this way: in our country, in the past and until now, a mechanism of socially useful work has been used (let's call it this) and has been used compared to young people, that is, compared to people who did not have a job opportunity. I do not want to make an incorrect translation now, but the subject that Senator Ichino proposed to us in terms of how to manage a phase of exit from the labour market or from one's profession in a gradual and sustainable way, both at the social security and at the personal level, I believe it is an issue that we must absolutely address, because it speaks of both the issues that have been mentioned here. Along with this, of course, we have the themes that Senator Sacconi has proposed to us. I believe that these should be included in the reflection that we are going to do, because they would somehow help a stock of people to qualify for retirement. So we need to produce all the conditions that can specifically intervene with respect to this type of situation. These are the issues that we are going to deal with in this matter. Then there is another theme, which was proposed by the Divine Senator and which concerns the unequal treatment of penalties, that is, the choice made by the law of stability. At the moment the government is not expecting and is not working on this issue. He did not do this because it is a parliamentary intervention, in the sense that the rule has been proposed and approved within the path of the law of stability and has its own logic on the basis of the reasoning that we have just finished doing, that is to make sure that the highest number of people can choose to retire. It therefore, at this specific time when there is need for replacement, has the function of making the output easier. This objective is clearly not pursued in relation to people who are already retired; therefore, this objective would not be met. There is a question of a diversity of conditions that is being determined, but, at the general level, I think that normally or very often, when an intervention is made on a factual situation, a situation is always produced before and after and therefore this type of problem is not solved. However, to give a pointy answer, the government today has no initiatives in progress on this issue. A subject has also been proposed which concerns the issue of seasonal workers. On this the delegation provides for a benefit linked to the previous contribution history of each worker. This is certainly a matter for seasonal workers, but it also concerns workers in general. That rule, as we wrote it, raises the duration of the NASPI from twelve to eighteen months to twenty-four months. So we have tried to make this measure universal and applicable to all those citizens who have not so far. We did the same thing with regard to collaborations, with DIS-COLL. As far as seasonal products are concerned, we are examining the possibility of producing a gradual trend in this standard; in any case, we believe that we need to find a way to allow people who will be in this situation to have a period of time under which they know what will happen and who will be active in order to find themselves in the best possible condition. We are therefore determined to intervene in this spirit. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u69	ICHINO (PD). I am fully satisfied with the Minister's answer, both for the completion of the answer to the question put by Senator Parenti and for the part relating to active ageing and the government's commitment to this, which I believe should become a very important new chapter in our welfare policy.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u72	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr Minister, unfortunately, the Government's approach to such a delicate reform still seems to me to be vague and somewhat approximate. Solutions must be found to ensure that mature workers can retire at a reasonable and established age, in a generational relay for young people who take over the world of work for older people. Unfortunately, however, the heavy penalties on supplementary pensions, which the Government introduced with the last law of stability, show little foresight and misunderstanding of reality, and do not make us hope for the future.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u75	Mr Paglini (M5S). Minister, you are telling me in a nutshell - announces, announces - that perhaps you will do something, now you will see. The problem is that seasonal workers are really very concerned. Your ads just propagandistic and just: I'm sorry to announce this. The data confirms what I say. Minister, the truth is that in February there were 44,000 fewer employees and 23,000 more layoffs, despite your tweets and announcements. Unemployment today is at 12.7%; therefore, I am not at all satisfied with this answer, and it is not only I who show dissatisfaction but speak the numbers, the facts and the Italians. Minister, I am sure that seasonal workers would be happy to hear your answer directly on Tuesday during the demonstration. If you want, maybe we'll go together.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u78	SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr Minister, I am doubly satisfied: first of all, because you first, with a very visible reference to the head, which the President wished to stress, reiterated that you wanted to achieve the single text of work, replacing the status of workers; and then because, with regard to the completion of the social security reform and the fulfilment of the contributory logic, you shared the need to proceed with a number of decisions. He did not give us any details, and it was right that it was so at this time, also because every time we talk about pensions the government is required to account in the short and long term, but I think I can see in his answer that, unlike that Fornero reform, today we think of numbers, but also people. Woe if we were just thinking about numbers and not people.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u81	BENCINI (Mixed). Mr Minister, I am not so pleased, I would say, because in the end we were not given a proper answer with regard to the pension system. We continue to plead the case and call for a review of the pension rules. We have also entrusted ourselves to the new President INPS Boeri, who must make a count that will then tell us, and it is hoped that Parliament, together with the Government, will produce something that will give an effective response to people. It seems to me that today in front of your Ministry there were again exodus who asked to be reinstated into a pension system. The Fornero law has produced a number of important exodates and has left them in an immense economic vacuum. I really wonder how anyone who doesn't own anything can go on. I therefore believe that this is one of the first problems to be solved in relation to that law. Secondly, it is necessary to shorten pension periods because this guarantees a new world of work. There is no point in doing jobs act and creating jobs through tax reductions, which will also be good. In fact, however, it is necessary to free up jobs, to make policies in which a productive system is implemented in such a way as to create work in physical terms. I am also referring to the subject of working hours: it could be done to work less for a better quality of life, but in more people. Thirty-six hours per week work in public places, compared to the private sector, where forty hours work: we try to rethink these famous thirty-six hours, assuming quality work, in which we can work less but all. There would also be much more to say, but my time is up. One minute is very little to say what I have to say, but thank you, Minister. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There will be other opportunities, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u84	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV)). Minister, you know, when a parent was told at school that the boy had good will, but there was no profit, it was not a good judgment, but a negative one. You, until you delete the Fornero law, will not have enough: the Italians ask you and those young people - professors, doctors, researchers - who under the age of forty have not found a job. But what generational relay? We need a contract, a generational entry and exit pact, we need it for development. The dose is this: we must return to 100-102, according to the fact that the President of the Damian Chamber's working committee is trying to move forward with the Commission itself, because only there can we be able to eliminate the Fornero law and the failures it caused. Only in this way can the development be allowed again, with the generational contract, so that young people - researchers, doctors, teachers, employees of public administrations - with their modern cultural background replace the now obsolete sixty-two and sixty-three-year-olds (like me, who represent them all a bit). That is what the Italians want, so it is enough to say that Europe is asking us and we are beginning to say no to Merkel.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u87	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr Minister, it was courteous, but it is a pity that the opinions we have remain: perhaps the problem is that the custom of this country and this parliamentary system is to legislate in the wake of emergencies. Those two years ago were to review social security costs and savings. What did the Fornero reform do? It has detained workers to download the social security service and the INPS, but by holding the workers do not enter the young and there is no generational replacement. Today you see this problem of replacement and you say that we have to deal with it: it will be very expensive, because we will have to think of maneuvers, incentives, etc. I think of how much damage we will still have to suffer in the meantime for that Monti Government which created disasters, the first of which perhaps concerns the Italian shipbuilding industry, which was the flagship of the whole world, but has been reduced to one tenth of what it was, in terms of budget and production. Even the Chinese came shopping in that sector. We legislate thinking about the future, not about emergencies, otherwise we will mess up like the Monti Government (and we do not know how much longer we will have to pay the duty).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u88	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank the Minister for Labour and Social Policy for his helpfulness and all the interrogators.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u89	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-427.ana.u90	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 14 April, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.10 p.m.
