ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9.40 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1880, 746, 760, 1570, 1795, 1815, 1823, 1841 and 1855.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u9	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment No 01,200. Before we proceed, however, I am obliged to point out that last night the President of the Senate announced that the timetable had not changed, that we are in a strange situation. I would like to raise the question again here: tomorrow morning, at 9.30 a.m., explanations of vote on this draft law are provided and, while this deadline has been given to this draft law imposing almost an urgent procedure, yesterday we heard from the voice of the representative of the Government and then in the letter itself sent by Minister Padoan to the Supervisory Committee for the renewal of positions that we are actually doing a job that will certainly not have any influence on the appointment of the new board of directors, which will instead be appointed by the law bearing his name, President protempore. Honestly, I really do not understand why we have to continue working with very tight times, when a lot of issues remain open and we could do much more work. I would now like to explain this amendment 01,200, aimed at introducing an article and dealing with the principles, that is to say, the fundamental issue to be addressed when a reform of the RAI is pomped up: I am referring to the need to re-establish, first of all, the principles on which the public service is re-arranged and reorganized. To us it seemed absolutely fundamental to try to re-examine this question, precisely in premise to a bill that is pompously titled: Reform of RAI and public service radio and television. Among other things, the reflections made at the end of the general discussion by Senator Zavoli (which, unfortunately, are reflected little in the text of this bill), lead us to say that this had to be one of the objects to investigate: in fact, when we approach the idea of reform, we need to redefine the mission of the public service. Especially at a time of ever greater transformation in the world of the mass media, giving back a mission to the public service should perhaps have been one of the fundamental issues to be addressed. We therefore believe that it is necessary to put forward the question of principles with force, establishing that access to communication is a fundamental right of freedom enshrined in our Constitution and that pluralism, freedom of access and the absence of dominant and monopoly positions must be guaranteed in the communication system and in the markets that make up it. When we are talking about the absence of dominant and monopoly positions, we are alluding to the fact that, unfortunately, the House of Deputies has long been immemorial (I am referring to the beginning of this parliamentary term), without having taken any step forward, the draft law on conflict of interest, which also this Government - President Renzi, first - had undertaken immediately to carry forward. There is another question within the framework of the principles that - I repeat - should be at the head and pre-ordered to this bill. I am referring to the redefinition of public service, which is the essential tool for achieving effective freedom of access to communication and is a real common good. If we all believe that the right to information, pluralism and freedom of access are constituent elements of the system of rights that are part of our republican pact, then it is clear that public service, which is the essential instrument for achieving this, can only be considered a real common good, which is a heritage that allows - or should allow - today ever more to guarantee the orderly, harmonious and democratic development of society. How, then, is public service characterized in this being a common good? Its mission is to promote the democratic, social and cultural development of human rights in every society and the right of every citizen to receive and disseminate information, ideas and opinions through non-discriminatory access to all available transmission platforms. Here, however, the other fundamental question emerges: public service is such because it must first preserve pluralism in the media. These communication activities carried out in the various media are carried out by the public service operator and also by private entities in accordance with the constitutional rules. The free economic activity in the media sector is and must also be exercised in accordance with the principles of pluralism and competition, established by the European Union, but safeguarding the universality of access to networks. The public service must be carried out in complete independence and editorial, administrative and financial autonomy. This principle should be the cornerstone around which to reorganize and reform the RAI governance system. The measure today to our examination and the proposal of governance that is made to us, from this point of view (independence and autonomy editorial, administrative and financial), it seems to me that they are absolutely not guarantors, because they put in fact the RAI (through the managing director and the system of the director constituted by the president and the two representatives of the Government) under the control of the Government, reducing the criterion of independence. Another fundamental issue, which should have been the subject of the measure and which, alas, will end up in the so broad delegations provided for in the draft law, is that the public service must, in order to be such, ensure adequate levels of access to all the different technological opportunities, independent information and communication products and must ensure this to all citizens, regardless of the social conditions and the spending capacity of each citizen. The seventh element that we set out is the mission to promote culture, knowledge, national productions and to ensure all the appropriate ways of achieving new forms of communication by citizens, because this is also one of the tasks of the public service today. We are very sorry that all these amendments (there are also other, different ones concerning the basic principles) have been completely neglected both in the debate and in the very nature and articulation of the draft law, so much so that many points are in total contrast with these principles, which come directly from Article 21 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u10	Mr President, I am beginning to talk to you about the amendments tabled to Article 1, which concern the mission of the RAI, i.e. those defining general principles, which should come before any debate on governance. In general discussion we had started from there, because it is the most common sense thing. Faced with a public service vetusto, technologically backward and with a company composition inadequate to the technological challenges of renewal that it has to face (as it is before everyone's eyes), we must define as the first thing that public service will have to be configured and what its main tasks will be. The RAI teacher of the Italians of the last century has objectively changed: the RAI has changed, the Italian social fabric has changed, the market has changed, the technological environment in which the citizen lives has changed; the RAI should therefore aim for a complete revolution because the generalist television, as we know it, has short life, will last still very little. Yesterday I spoke on the order of business on what Mrs De Petris mentioned a moment ago, namely that we are now voting on a board of directors, perhaps next week as we understand it, in order to keep it three years with a law against which everyone, beginning with the President of the Council, had launched stroli, which represents the partitioning of RAI, the division on the basis of political interests, clientele and party and not of efficiency, performance capacity and independence, above all, of the public information service. Well, we said just that: if we spend the next three to five years with a board of directors and with a certain governance, because on it then depend on the nominations of the directors of network, of the directors of news headlines and therefore precisely of those who make the television, that is that they direct the apartments that make the television physically and make strategic choices for the company, and we take people who do not have the appropriate skills, we will not be able to make the revolution necessary to RAI, also because we are now late. Today we are talking about Netflix and technologies that use platforms completely different from those used to RAI. I have repeatedly mentioned, during the hearings in the RAI Supervisory Committee, the fact that RAI has no clear strategic vision on web policy. We find ourselves with public television and websites that have classifications, compared to the reference tables, ridiculous. For example, our news channel, RaiNews, is over two hundredth in Italy despite the investments that have been made. I remember that only last year, for the renewal of RaiNews had been paid 80 million euros. Of course there has been a technological revival, but then in the end the share stops at 0.3%. Given that RAI does not have to live on share, as we all know, we have a schizophrenic structure in which some areas grow in a disproportionate way, absorb resources and produce little in comparison perhaps with a harmonisation between internal and external competences, between a balance relative to what RAI must do, the mission that it must have and therefore the tools of which it must equip itself, absolutely doing so. The first question, therefore, is to ensure that RAI becomes a real public service like those of other countries that we have often heard quoted. It is clear that if we do not first think about what to do we cannot think after what governance we can use to achieve those objectives and what competences the members of the board must have to achieve them. At that point we can talk about the canon and how much resources are needed to manage the indicated mission. Undoubtedly the RAI has the virtues, virtuous situations and great professionalism within it but it also has a set of devices now elephantic and disproportionate and an accumulation of managerial offices that, over the years, have taken away resources. When we talk about politics that intervenes in the public service and the parties from which RAI must be saved, we talk about this, we talk about mediocrity. It happens, in fact, that in order to have an internal referent I make a career for a less competent person, because it is clear that a very good professional will not put his face on failed projects, losers or that they do not have a real purpose like a good news, a good production chain of entertainment, documentaries and anything else. This whole set of amendments to Article 1 therefore defines a number of suggestions, which are already contained in the public service contract, but which is probably right to discuss in this House too, depending on what we are going to vote on in Article 2, namely the true form of governance, dealing in particular with the proposals that we have made and which have been partly transposed and partly not, but which we will talk about during the discussion of the amendments to that article, in order to define a competence, which allows us to ferry the RAI from the past to the present, if only with a view to a future perspective. The first key point is to clarify the main aspects of the RAI mission, highlighting some of them, such as the media company function that RAI will have to acquire. What does this definition mean, which is often repeated in the Commissions and in this House? It involves the transformation of a Broadcaster, that is, a society that makes television in a canonical way, in a society that produces content, that have different characteristics and different purposes of sharing and use by citizens. I am referring therefore to the dissemination of content on certain platforms, such as mobile phones or the web, in the face of a society which, as you know, is fundamentally backward from this point of view. The majority of RAI spectators are older than 55 or 60 years of age and are often people with low computer literacy. It would therefore be essential for RAI itself to carry out an information operation on the new media, aimed at citizens who are not yet so experienced and so ready to use and enjoy the content of information, entertainment and culture on other platforms, thus starting to do a real didactic activity on the use of new technologies. Perhaps this has not yet been sufficiently stressed by everyone, even though we have received a number of suggestions in the Commission for the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services during a number of hearings. [[Call the president back.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, by analyzing the amendment by amendment. I therefore believe that computer literacy is one of the main points that RAI will have to address, together with a clear, precise and multi-platform plan to relaunch the public information service. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u11	Mr President, I would like to explain in particular Amendment 01.254, which was signed by me and Mr Tocci. This is an amendment which I hope and realize that the Government will do so, it was nothing else because it is taken and copied in full by the first paragraph of the first article of the law that the current Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Gentiloni, presented a few years ago on the subject of RAI. I wonder - and I ask my colleagues in the PD and then the whole House - why the general principles of public service, public service concession and public service obligations, which were good at another time, dominated by the personality of Silvio Berlusconi, now become annoyance and are omitted now that the President of the Council is Matteo Renzi, of whom Gentiloni is a very close collaborator. I think it was an amnesia and a forgetfulness, and so we considered it appropriate to remember those principles, using the words of Gentiloni. We have also tabled amendment 1,351 which insists on the principle of public service provision. RAI is not public service because it is public, it is not so, otherwise there would have been no reform in 1975. The public service has to do with an interest of the State, which asks for things and grants this particular service. That is the point of the amendments I have just made.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u12	Mr President, without adding what has already been said in the general debate, I would like to stress that with our amendments to Article 1, we try to define what should be understood by public broadcasting and multimedia services, given the technological developments, since this definition is missing in the text proposed by the Government on time. It is clear that our amendments refer to our vision of reform of the RAI, which is diametrically opposed to that of the Government and the majority; certainly more precise and precise in the definition of the public service, which is actually addressed, from our point of view, in a rather brief way. The fact that we want to clarify, clarify and define more specifically what is meant by public broadcasting is the basic platform on which this important reform should develop and then to define governance, which I believe is one of the most important aspects of this issue in our view. We look like another planet than the government and the majority intend to reform in order to this important law. One thing about everyone: for us the identification of the people who should compose the board of directors and their origin must be subject to a fundamental condition, that is to say that we have not had relations with politics and therefore have not exercised political functions at any level in the last ten years. I believe that this is the starting point: in fact, if we really want to give the country a more independent RAI, a more independent public service, modern and up-to-date, removing politics from RAI is the first fundamental step, as has been stressed and advertised by everyone. That is not to say that policy makers do not or could not have technical characteristics of excellence, but if we really want this qualitative leap, we need to have an independent RAI, as highlighted by all the Commission's audits on this important issue, which have stressed the importance of having an independent RAI. The applicant's word was independence. Therefore, without extending further - perhaps we will do so more precisely in the course of the examination of Article 1 - with our amendments to this Article, let us, in fact, give a precise definition of what is meant by public radio and television services because, in our opinion, the subject is dealt with excessively briefly in this law. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u13	Mr President, a measure which has its own logic, its own meaning, starts with a programme, an objective and then is consistent with it. The slogan with which the Government presented this bill was "outside the parties from the RAI", an impeccable slogan - I believe that in the bibliography that concerns this company, from the first to the second Republic has always been mentioned - but that has never been implemented. Well, I think that exactly the same thing is being done on this occasion, because in reality there is only a shift in governance from an influence, from a privileged relationship with Parliament, to a relationship in which the role of the Government is certainly more important, in some respects heavier. This scheme has led me to table amendments, which are partly a provocation. I start from a premise: if indeed - and we must be consistent, putting aside all hypocrisy - the objective is to take away the parties from the RAI, there is only one road, the main road, and it is exactly that of the privatization of the company, a privatization that can also be done; it has been talked about and has been authorized also in the Government Letta by a representative of government like Catralà. In other words, it is possible to create the conditions by which the public service is in fact the service and the public entity becomes private, i.e. RAI. At that point, the public service becomes a sort of task, of service precisely, that the Government, the State can put into competition with a contract, according to certain criteria and creating certain requirements that must be met, in which all private networks and RAI participate. Such an operation would completely take the policy out of management and at the same time give the opportunity to express an opinion on these service pieces that are carried out by private networks. In this way that problem, that kind of slogan, that objective underlying the reform in fact would be achieved. Why do I say it's a provocation? In fact we start from the idea of pulling the parties out of RAI, but then we only try - I use an expression used very much in these years - to occupy it. What is happening with this kind of reform, which in fact only concerns governance, is precisely this because we create a condition for the government to become the dominus in its relationship with the public service. It is clear that such a thing, at least to me, cannot be well, starting from another assumption. I am not opposed to the idea of going ahead with the appointment of the new summit through the Gasparri law because, apart from the fact that we have legal obligations, it is evident above all that we cannot leave a company that manages three billion public money with a summit that should be continuously extended, but not only until September: taking into account the times of approval of this bill, we would practically arrive at the end of October. If we consider that within the law it is also provided that the new board of directors must even decide how to elect a representative of the workers, who would be on the new board of directors, we will arrive in November. I believe that this is impossible and I think that this should be a common opinion. However, it could give us a great chance: which one? It is clear that all the haste in dealing with this issue was determined by the expiry RAI summit. If we solve the problem in this way, this impellence that, above all, makes us deal with the issue only from the point of view of governance, would fail. If we renew the summit with the old law it would be much more logical to give more space to the debate. Let's face the truth: we only deal with governance in a system that, on the other hand, is changing and needs other interventions. In fact, the draft law provides for delegations to the Government on important issues that could be addressed in Parliament. In my opinion there is a contradiction between the type of choice made by the Government, which I share (i.e. renewing the summit through the Gasparri Act), and the choice, not to take the most positive aspect of it, namely the enlargement of the spaces for a much more in-depth discussion, which could lead to a more common position. Unfortunately, this has not been done. I believe that, from this point of view, we risk moving forward with a confrontation that will not reform RAI and that risks only giving the idea, for the umpteenth time, of an impotence on the part of Parliament and the forces of politics to reform the largest cultural industry in the country. Above all, we continue to move forward with patterns that are always the same. In the end, the essence of this measure is all about governance and about self-management, creating a thousand contradictions. As I have already said in general debate, it is clear that it is difficult to pass as a historical change and a liberation of RAI from the snares of politics from a law which in any case provides for the involvement of Parliament to another in which the role of the Government is predominant. It is a great hypocrisy that takes us nowhere. In my opinion, we should have the courage and the ability to say, at such a time, since we are in August, that we can appoint the new summit and reopen a wider debate, by including in the debate issues which, on the other hand, are now merely referred to, in fact, the decisions of the Government, also creating a grey area, in which it clearly becomes difficult to understand what is the central reason for the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u14	Mr President, it has been recalled that our debate had an initial cut in the Commission under the slogan that the President-in-Office of the Council had launched to motivate the government to submit a draft law instead of the many proposals that had been tabled to meet one objective: to renew the governance of RAI outside the current legislation. Therefore, it was justified that the whole of the problems of RAI, Radiotelevisione italiana, were not dealt with in an organic way, because it was necessary to cancel the shame of the law in force, which determined its occupation by the parties. It is sad to consider that we have intervened only to pass the word from the plural to the singular. As they say in RAI: end of transmissions. What are we talking about? I would add that, in the rage to proceed in that direction, forget that, at that point, due to the arranged combination of the acceleration that occurred in the previous hours, towards the afternoon of yesterday's day (and in the next one will explicitly complete the path of election of the Board of Directors with the rules of the current law), not only the haste, as also rightly recalled Senator Minzolini, but the merit of that modest proposal presented by the Government fails. By also expressing our limitations in the approach to that bill, it is clear that on the one hand we have tried to bring, as with Article 1, the fundamental principles. Of course, our fundamental principles, with respect to the government's bill, are completely alternative. We have a vision of RAI, Italian Radio Television, as a public good and as a common good. So let us make clear its scaffolding and function in our few amendments. Someone should therefore tell the President-in-Office of the Council - who says that he renews the Board of Directors with the Gasparri Act because the parties and Parliament are slow and because there is obstruction - that we have tabled some 40 amendments, and that if this can be understood as a form of slowness and obstructionism he must turn to someone else. And above all the rapporteur, a senator whom I esteem, and the majority ask for some explanation of the embarrassing role that you are playing in these hours. It has been determined, in fact, by alternative positions, that everyone has tried to make a contribution in making it clear which direction to go and, at the same time, has tried to table some amendments, which we define as harm reduction. It is clear that we cannot think that the Government's approach protects public service and the common good RAI, which was the way in which we had built our bill. So we have tabled a few, but significant, amendments which seek, in the various articles, to reduce the damage, which is to move from the RAI of the parties to the RAI of a single party; therefore, elements that maintain the involvement of Parliament, its Commissions and its articulations in a position of utility and cogency. Otherwise, it is precisely the end of the broadcasts. The effort went in this direction, but of course it was affected by the times, which were those of a decree-law and not of a bill, because it was necessary to gallop and take a battle rhythm to renew the board of directors, which otherwise would have been made according to the law in force. Since this commitment is no longer there, do you explain to me the difference - and this must be done by the majority, first of all - with the recent act we adopted, the reform of the procurement code, which was not really a joke and dealt with sensitive matters, but for which we managed to stay in time, while doing a job recognized by all? If this criterion had been applied to RAI - starting from the foundations and not only from governance, as we do when we want to do things right in order to build buildings that can last and be recognized over time - we would not have come to pursue only a small and modest objective, for which however this has not been useful, because the cda will not be elected with the criterion that we are approving. There is a serious problem of schizophrenia, of which one must answer: otherwise, one enters a mechanism in which there is no certainty, since the aspects of some articles are delegated to the government, also in this case due to the haste and the need to arrive. You look like Alice's rabbit in wonderland, who is always in a hurry, but doesn't know; not only doesn't have a mission, but doesn't even have a vision, a minimum objective. I do not want to disturb rhetorical terms, but if the objective is to renew it with other criteria, which we do not agree on, it no longer serves the purpose: in the next few hours - days at most, as we are told in the Rai Supervisory Committee - we will proceed with the same method. There have also been very small openings in the Commission on some aspects: we have said that the fee becomes a tax of purpose and that, at the same time, there is proportionality with respect to income, and many other things that are the subject of delegation to the Government (as you know, once again with the motivation that we need to proceed to the pace of battle). We have an opportunity: the mistake you have made, there is no doubt, and I hope that, instead of relying on various communications, authoritative or not, it is said serenely that the embarrassment is obvious. The contradiction that has been determined, then, becomes an asset. In conclusion, we open a discussion, which may have the need for a few more hours or days, but it resumes not the roof, but the foundations of an RAI meeting the challenges, which are not only in governance, which is the one that will have to summarize the clear and explicit approach and mission that are given to this strategic company of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u15	Mr President, we have been discussing the draft law for some time now, and we have already said that, while we are discussing it, this strange acceleration has taken place in the Supervisory Committee for the appointment of the new board of directors with the old law. Sometimes it comes to think and reflect on the meaning of our work, on why we are continuing to think about a law which, in essence, will come into force in three years' time, so perhaps it would have been at least the case to take time and try to do something more coherent and correct, always to ensure that the work of Parliament and, in particular, of the Senate (as long as it exists) makes sense and is in line with what we have to do. However, the government decides to act like this and probably this activity of ours will only serve to identify the powers of the former director-general, who then will remain so but with the competences of the managing director and therefore we will do the usual pastrocchio. However, Article 1 deals with the mission, the purpose of the public service. We have said this in various ways; there are many amendments that identify the deep aim of the public service, which obviously can only be to ensure that citizens have a way, an instrument of knowledge that is real, clean, deep, not a son of logic of belonging or that they do not lead towards what we have repeatedly called an increase in the critical consciousness of the population (which should also be the aim of the school) and, being the public service, the RAI must have this mission within itself. On the other hand, the technological evolution we are facing is so radical and profound that we are moving with great speed towards the digital world. We have already said that with the landing of Netflix in Italy, the cable transmission begins to become important and the RAI cannot fail to be part of this change in action in such a profound way, because the infrastructural and technological transformation cannot be far from the mission of the public service. It will therefore be necessary to convey knowledge to the people who follow the public service towards what it should be or that it will certainly be the world of the future, when we will also transform the industry and therefore when all or a large part will travel by cable, fiber optics and also with the system of convergence, of which RAI is part through its subsidiary Rai Way, of everything that concerns mobility, that is, mobile phones and connections. Remember that we talked about the fact that the 700 megahertz band, on which Rai Way operates, will be used for mobile phones and this interface with all the tools. Coming to the RAI mission, we need to make sure more and more that people are able to have important programs. There are channels of RAI that are really unvalued, I think for example of RAI History and other very interesting channels that can really give people the opportunity to understand something more and therefore RAI should try to get out of this media circle in which you continue to give people this that I would call a subculture. It comes to mind when in a RAI program of many years ago "Back all" was mocking RAI and it was said that "life is a quiz." We should remember that, because that was actually the mockery of what communication was becoming. In fact, we have more and more taken the embrace towards that drift, towards the show, the theater. I wish it had been Eduardo's classic theater, which RAI broadcast many years ago. The present continuous dispensation does not bring benefits to the people to whom we should tell the many complicated things that must move us to think and think. We could say a thousand things, talk about culture, about the strength that the country has, we could imagine a news that is no longer made with sandwiches (we know well what the sandwich is), we could try to give people what is important and if we do not really know what the mission of RAI is, how can we imagine that members of the board of directors, who should then implement that mission, besides of course everything that is foreseen in the contract of service, can implement it well, if they do not have profoundly clear what this mission is? We are therefore debating this Article 1, there are many amendments which represent a whole series of premises, and then there are other additional amendments which we will discuss later, in which we are talking about AGCOM, the Control Authority on which there is a speech to be made later. We should assume an RAI that has a great strength and the daring to think of itself as an instrument that is not only of communication, but of interface with people, that makes people recover the desire to feel part of a project that is the Nation. As long as the RAI is of the State, this could and should do more usefully: to make citizens feel involved in the overall transformation project of a nation, in which everyone feels deeply involved in what they have to do together to try to imagine a different country and this is perhaps what we should really do, beyond the Sunday entertainment broadcasts that serve nothing but to make the spectators sane from the mental point of view. We should make the mind a little dry, because that dryness puts you in a position to be critical. Perhaps this is the real mission of a public service and we will have to work to ensure that this is what the new board of directors feels within itself and succeeds in transmitting through the action of RAI, which must stop being just an instrument of inebetting of the people who are there watching television. There are people, as well as my mother, who say that television has said it; we are still at that point; instead we have to start wondering if what television says is right and if you can interact with that device to make it stimulate the questions. Perhaps the real mission of RAI should be to stimulate questions, then each one finds the answers he wants. If RAI stimulates questions to people, we would do our job well.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u16	Mr President, let us look at the reform of RAI as a public service. The colleague asked what is the mission of a public service such as RAI. It is certainly information, but RAI played a key role at the beginning of its operational mandate because it actually played a cultural and educational role. He taught Italian to all the people because everyone spoke with his dialect at the time and, therefore, had a fundamental and priority role in the diffusion of culture. Now, luckily, times have changed and the media have changed too. There are many more: the transversality and immediacy of the IT media, social media, the Internet and everything else make sure that everything about information and culture is managed differently. In any case, for our culture, we are of the idea that public service and large transmissive networks - from transport to energy, but also information and the Internet - must be state-owned and managed by the State. The problem is that, when we talk about state management, politics manages by manipulating everything. Policy management becomes interference. And that's not what it should be. The management of a public service by the State should be the safeguarding of the rights and duties of this service. A managed service is made ad hoc so that it fits around the citizenship and the need of a citizen to be informed. Now we certainly have other media that are more immediate and capillaries: each of us always has a mobile phone or a computer access. It is true that it does not affect all age groups or citizenship, but we have a fairly widespread spread and, therefore, you might wonder if it makes sense. The Internet is an extreme source of innumerable information, but often you fall into fallacious information. Therefore, the user and the user who goes to receive the information must still have a critical conscience, which is not innate but must form. Therefore, it must have access to information in a cross-cutting and objective manner. If, at the time of access to the information, these are already manipulated a priori, an objective opinion cannot be obtained. It is therefore essential to have at least one source that can be objectively defined as a neutral source. We can be quite utopian because anyone who has an opinion influences even the exposure of facts. However, the assumptions dictated by these missions for the RAI are certainly not a good hope because we have always had the interference of the parties within the RAI. The government proclamations said to take away the parties. It has already been said by colleagues that we remove part of the interference of the parties to include those of the Government. This is certainly not a good thing, because, at the time when information is being transmitted by the Government, it is not possible to have the objectivity that, instead, should be inherent in the information itself. This is certainly very restrictive - as Mr Cioffi said - because it involves the lack of a critical conscience in the citizens, and a capacity to ask questions. The questions are fundamental: when a person asks himself questions, it is because he wants cultural growth and to go under the crust of things in order to be able to grasp the true hidden meaning. Starting from the assumption that the large infrastructure must be state-owned - here we are talking about Rai Way, which is on sale - but it is absolutely necessary to maintain autonomy. The State must, therefore, intervene to ensure that information autonomy is guaranteed. Even yesterday we had signs that the government interferes, interferes and accelerates the times, ensuring that parliamentary work, which is not neutral but at least more plural, is affected even by a letter that implies the taking of action that must go on anyway, even if we have other issues and priorities. I understand that the Management Board has expired and needs to be renewed. But all the work done in the Commission has been aimed at mitigating certain interferences and improving, as far as possible, the implementation and structure of the Management Board, also with a view to improving its professional capacity and ensuring that the information is more attractive and the television system more performing. If we abandon this road - I remember that already now the information ship does not navigate in the best waters - and let ourselves be influenced by a letter from the Government, starting immediately with a wild lottery and with old rules, we certainly do not do a good service to the State. I still hope that the government will not take a step back, but at least can review its position in order to improve the method of election of the board of directors, avoiding the exercise of a political influence towards it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u17	The remaining amendments are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u18	Mr President, if you agree, I shall first give the opinions and then give an explanation to the various Members who have spoken. In amendments 01200, 01.201 and 01.202 - excuse me if I put them together, but they have the same content - much is said about the mission. Both Senator De Petris and Senators Airola and Crosio stressed the importance and importance of the RAI mission, which is clearly contained in the service contract. I therefore do not feel that I am giving a negative opinion, since these are important concepts, which I believe should also be taken into account for the future service contract (as RAI's public service). I would therefore ask for a change in the agenda of amendments 01200, 01.201 and 01.202. On Senator Mineo's amendment 01.254 I make an invitation to withdraw or to turn it into an agenda, because it also contains the right principles. I therefore support Amendments 1,281 and 1,288 and call for amendment 1,358 to be turned into an agenda. As regards agendas, I am in favour of the agenda G1.100, G1.101 and G1.104 (correct text). I am against all the other amendments and agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u19	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur on the amendments. On the agenda, he referred to the House's assessment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u20	I would ask the authors of amendments 01.20, 01.201 and 01.202 if they accept the rapporteur's invitation to turn them into agendas, starting with Senator Crosio.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u21	Mr President, I take note of the rapporteur's proposal and I agree with it. As far as Amendment 01.202 is concerned, I accept its change to the agenda, which I would like to vote for anyway. I would, however, like to reflect with the rapporteur and the Government. With the agenda G1.106, at my first signature, we essentially ask the Government to take all necessary action to ensure that the right of access to public radio and television networks is guaranteed, through digital terrestrial transmission, to all Italian citizens with full coverage on the territory. Let me stress that I believe it is important to make this commitment because today, on national territory, the transition from analogue to digital terrestrial, unfortunately, does not yet guarantee to all citizens the clean reception of public service programmes. Therefore I think that a commitment from the Government, which I believe is natural and has already been expressed on several occasions by the representatives of the Government, can be taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u22	I should like to ask the rapporteur whether he intends to speak again with regard to the agenda G 1.06.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u23	Mr President, since there are other points in the draft law that we are talking about the fact that the public service must cover the whole territory, I ask Senator Crosio if he accepts that the agenda G1,106 can be accepted as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u24	Senator Crosio, do you accept the rapporteur's proposal? CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the agenda was therefore adopted as a recommendation. Senator De Petris, do you accept the rapporteur's request to turn amendment 01,200 into an agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u25	Mr President, honestly, I am a little surprised, because here we are talking about the principles and mission of the RAI and, if we had done a serious job on this issue, perhaps we would have really dealt with the reform of the RAI, and now we are talking about something else. The issues we raise with amendment 01,200 are not so much the subject of the service contract as the article and, therefore, the very premise on which the reform of the RAI should be based. It gives itself, instead, another kind of interpretation and that frankly worries me a little. I accept, however, the change of amendment 01,200 to the agenda, which I would like to vote for anyway. However, I would like to stress that it is very strange that the principles to which the public service should be based are considered to be the subject of the service contract. This is not exactly the case, or change the title to the draft law under consideration. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, do you accept the rapporteur's proposal to turn amendment 01.201 into an agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u26	Mr President, I accept the proposal to turn amendment 01.201 into an agenda, which I would like to vote for anyway.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u29	MINEO (PD). The rapporteur said that he would accept the content of amendment 01.254, signed by me and Senator Tocci, who - as I said at the stage of illustration - takes up the premise of the Gentiloni law, if turned into an agenda? RANUCCI (PD). Yes, it is. MINEO (PD). I shall then withdraw the amendment and turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u30	The Presidency takes note of this, Senator Mineo. Among other things, there was the contrary opinion of the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution on Amendment 01.254, whereas with the transformation into the agenda this aspect can be overcome. Agendas G01,200, G01,201 and G01,202 are scheduled pending the presentation of the texts and the subsequent vote required. Amendment 01.203 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 01.204.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u31	We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. Mr President, I am asking you for a simultaneous vote on this amendment only and I will repeat a similar request, from time to time, for each individual amendment. We do not intend, therefore, to make the request once for all the amendments to Article 1, because we want to be aware and calm in deciding how to vote, given that many proposals have been presented to us.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u32	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 01.204, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 01.205 and 01.206, which have been withdrawn, are incorporated into the agendas of G01.201 and G01.202 respectively. Amendments 01.207 to 01.234 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 01.235. Mr Russo (PD). We call for the remaining votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 01.235, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 01.236 to 01.240 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 01.241 tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 01,242 to 01,253 have been withdrawn. Amendment 01.254 has been withdrawn and turned into an agenda, which will be voted on later along with the other agendas. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 01.255, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 01,256 to 01,264 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 01.262, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 01.265, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,266 to 1,271 have been withdrawn. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini, identical to amendment 1,272, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,273 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 1.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. BONFRISCO (CRI). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. BONFRISCO (CRI). Mr President, I would like to add my signature to the amendment and ask for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. BONFRISCO (CRI). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. BONFRISCO (CRI). Mr President, I would like to add my signature to the amendment and ask for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u35	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I rise to correct my previous vote, which was obviously against. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u38	CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). Mr President, I too would like to point out that, in the previous vote, my vote was against.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u39	Colleagues, if there are other communications in this regard, I invite you to submit them to the Offices. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senators Minzolini and Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,274 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senators Minzolini and Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,275, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would remind you that Amendments 1,276 and 1,277 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,278 tabled by Senator Airola. (The vote was followed). [[Senators Airola and Santangelo make repeated remarks to the Presidency.]] Is there an explanation of vote? Sorry, but since Senator Airola made a nod that I interpreted as a renunciation to intervene, I didn't give him the floor. I shall cancel the vote to allow an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u42	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, my point was that I wanted to withdraw my amendment. Then you opened the vote and I thought we would vote on it sooner. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So, I played it right. AIROLA (M5S). Yes, but in any case there is an explanation of vote by Senator Puglia.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u45	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you, please, to look at this House in such a way that we do not have to hug ourselves in order to be heard. In fact, I would like to subscribe to this amendment, because I think it is appropriate to make a statement on the substance of the public service. I therefore support this amendment and all the other amendments tabled by my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u46	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,278 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,279 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,281 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,282 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,283 tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,284 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,285 tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,286 tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,287 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,288 tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,289 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,290, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,291 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.292, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,293, 1,294 and 1,296 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.297, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,298 to 1,301 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,302 tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,303 to 1,310 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,311, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.312, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.313.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u49	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, with this amendment we want to stress that it is essential that cultural and social values are established in the public service contract and that local identities are defended, as a heritage of the genetic code of plural television and at the service of citizens. This is in the public interest, and I therefore also appeal to colleagues who, despite their diversity, have to recognize themselves in their local identities. Having a television that accentuates languages, ways, customs and values this fundamental heritage of our country I believe is to make culture and I think it must be in the genetic code of the public service of television. I therefore call on the rapporteur and the Government to reconsider this important amendment, and I call on them to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u50	I don't see any kind of rethink. I therefore call on Senator Stucchi and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.313. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.314 to 1.326 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.6, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would remind you that amendments 1.327 and 1.328 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,329, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,280.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u53	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, they speak quickly to point out that this amendment provides for the strengthening of the possibility for all citizens to access, on all platforms, RAI's media content.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u54	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,280 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,330, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u57	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 1.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u58	I take note of that. I would remind you that amendments 1.331 and 1.332 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.8, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.333, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.334 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.335, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,336 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.337, which is essentially the same as Amendment 1.338.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u61	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, in fact, we repeat what was also present in the amendments signed by Senators Cervellini and De Petris. We ask that, whenever the Government takes a position, the opinion of the parliamentary committees should be provided for. It seems to me that, even in this case, we are always discussing the same things. In view of the fact that there is still a bicameral Parliament - but that it is a monocameral Parliament at this moment it does not matter - the opinion of the parliamentary committees serves to verify, as always, the work of the Government. Amendment 1.337 therefore provides for nothing more than the expression of an opinion. I think that the rapporteur and the government could still consider this amendment and, therefore, we simply ask you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u62	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.337, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia, which is essentially identical to amendment 1.338, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.339 has been withdrawn. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.10 tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini, up to the words "renewed" each of them. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 1.11 and amendments 1.12 to 1.345 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,346, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,347 to 1,350 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,351.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u65	MINEO (PD). Mr President, the amendment has a very simple ratio. The public service refers not to the fact that RAI is public, but to the granting of a service of public utility, with some characteristics, to a dealership. I do not understand why the government does not give a favourable opinion, since this was the historical point of view of the Democratic Party, which is not irrelevant part of this Government, and I would like to understand that.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u66	The rapporteur, who gave an opinion against it, confirmed this. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,351 tabled by Senators Mineo and Tocci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,352, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,353 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,354, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,355 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,356 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,357, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We now come to Amendment No 1,358, on which the rapporteur has called for the change of agenda. The first signatory to the amendment, Senator Crosio, announced that he would accept this invitation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u69	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, we accept the change in the agenda of the amendment, the text of which will be an integral part, and we are asking for it to be voted on anyway. I just want to stress how important point c is, with which we ask - and this will be a commitment on which we will watch, because we believe it is fundamental - that public service in addition to spreading knowledge of the cultural heritage in the broadcasts aimed at the participation of society in the protection of the artistic and environmental heritage, must ensure that these broadcasts are also aimed at promoting and enhancing the languages, cultures, identity, history, traditions and customs of our country. We believe that this, as I said earlier, should become a genetic patrimony of our public service at the time of the amendments. We therefore call for this agenda to be voted on, in the belief that it is a small piece to create a more redundant public service in its cultural completeness.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u70	Waiting for you to formally hand over to the Presidency the text of the agenda, we shall put it aside. It will therefore be voted on together with the other agendas that have already been set aside. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,359, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,360, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,361, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,362, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,363 tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,364, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,365, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,366, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,367, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,368, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1,369.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u73	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, we believe that this amendment is fundamental and strategic, precisely because of what I said earlier: to think that in the public service there can be more innovative transmissions aimed at promoting and enhancing the languages, cultures, identities, history, traditions, customs and historical and cultural heritage of the country means imagining the right service that it must carry out for these purposes. Convinced that this matter, where applied within the public service, can be defined as of great educational value for our children, we believe that engaging the Government through the insertion of a paragraph containing these principles with amendment 1,369 is fundamental and in line with the bill that we have presented, platform on which our thought is based, which is not monodirectional, even if someone could ironize in this regard. Rather, our thinking goes in the direction of the will to really value what is important and fundamental in our country, all too often forgotten and mistreated, that is the heritage of all the languages, cultures and identities that make up our society.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u76	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, Senator Crosio spoke about the valorisation of languages, identities and traditions, and I believe that this is an important issue for RAI, since we all know and always say that Italy is born from the municipalities and that therefore there are different identities not only in the North, but also in the South (on the other hand the South is the part of the country that has experienced the greatest number of dominations). We therefore agree with this. However, Amendment 1,370 also refers to theatre, opera, prose and music, which are equally important realities. Perhaps we forget how important theater is in the cultural evolution of people and a people in general. Before we talked about when RAI broadcast Eduardo's theater to which I, being Campania, am particularly fond. However, the theater is a wonderful expression, which of course should be seen live, in order to increase the strength and impact it must have on the people who can witness the scenic action. The theater represents reality, because only reality can transmit that emotion and this is wonderful. The theater should be seen live, but the broadcast on television serves to stimulate people to return to the theater, to participate in an emotional sense, with the actor who in that moment makes himself scene and gets emotional; therefore, to bring the theater back with force on television would serve just that. I therefore believe that talking about theatre (but also lyrics, dance and prose) in a law is very important. Ours is a country that has had great playwrights and great actors and perhaps we should return to valorizing the theater in an appropriate way. This could allow us to return to what we were talking about before, that is, to an RAI that also carries out a cultural service, that can increasingly increase people's critical abilities; theatre can be a great tool in this sense and therefore I consider it important to quote it in a law. I therefore believe that Senator Crosio's amendment is correct. Indeed, I support it and declare my vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u77	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,369, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators, up to the word "transmissions". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1,369 and amendments 1,370 to 1,377 are therefore excluded. Amendments 1,371 and 1,374 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,376, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators, up to the word 'programmes'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1,376 and amendments 1,378 and 1,379 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,380, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,382, 1,385 and 1,381 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,383 tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,384 and 1,386 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,387 tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,388, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,389.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u80	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are calling for the attention of the House and for a vote in favour of amendment 1,389, which calls for a very simple thing to be included in the draft law, namely that the public service should commit itself to programmes aimed at promoting Made in Italy, and that means, in a comprehensive manner, everything that represents excellence, from the country's culture to the various cultural productions of the territory. It seems at least superficial that at the moment when we talk about the reform of the radio and television sector and the transmission of Italian public information, that of State, there is not a specific segment, nor a precise indication in this sense, placing RAI substantially as any other subject on the market, to make advertising and promotion of activities often anything other than cultural, but simply entertainment or, if we want, leisure, as if to deceive people that reality is much sweeter than what is instead for those who, for example, lose their jobs. The Italian radio and television transmission system must instead be a channel of promotion of Italy abroad, of the excellences and qualities that we have and that we know how to represent. The problem is that often RAI plays a marginal role in these sectors, while the public broadcasting service must be engaged, with the modification that we propose on this specific sector, avoiding neglecting our capabilities and our excellences and promoting them abroad.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u83	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, I too am speaking on Amendment 1,389. When we talk about the enhancement of tourism and made in Italy, it is right to say something, because it is very important. Many times we have said in this House that the enhancement of tourism, and therefore the possibility of attracting people who come to visit our country, is an important fact that must be more and more present in consciences in people, because our country is a country with great attractions. It is therefore important to be able to value what we are able to do all over the world, even with export, because we are really able to do beautiful and important things. It is important to be able to ensure that RAI is also a means of transmitting this way of seeing, always with a view to increasing our ability to interact and open. This is another aspect that falls within the mission of RAI: the ability - we said - to increase our critical consciousness, but also that of being open to the cultures of other parts of the world. The great openness is the main aim that should have politics towards the people: to be so open as to be inclusive and less exclusive. You have to know how to be inclusive in some moments and exclusive in others, but always with the great ability to think of being open to all things. This is also one of the mission of RAI. In this amendment this principle is partly represented and, therefore, we shall vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u86	RANUCCI, rapporteur. Mr President, I have listened to Senator Candiani's thoughts. The first signatory is Senator Crosio; if it had been his first signature, perhaps we would have accepted it! It's just a distensive joke about colleagues. However, since the amendment contains principles which can be accepted, also because of Senator Cioffi's intervention, I would ask for it to be transformed into an agenda. We are talking about a measure which contains delegations and, therefore, the content cannot be so broad. However, I think that an agenda that promotes culture and, above all, Made in Italy in the world can be accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u89	ZIN (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would like to endorse Amendment 1,389. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, Senator Crosio has nothing against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u92	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would have liked to have had the floor before the rapporteur spoke. I signed up to speak in an explanation of vote on this amendment because it is quite important. In our opinion, it is not only about the very right question of the valorization of Made in Italy in the world and of our excellence. In fact, I believe that the RAI, being the largest cultural company in our country, should understand that it is necessary to implement programs and columns - I think of the whole part that concerns documentaries - that push to know also our Country and, therefore, the history, the landscape and all the artistic, cultural and environmental heritage of the Country. I would like to remind you that Italy has 60% of the cultural heritage of the whole world. Very often, on the other hand, in our television programmes, this is not at all appreciated and made known. Then there is another matter. I say this clearly: in a very happy period of RAI, which lately unfortunately has stopped, there were broadcasts of great value from the point of view of the promotion and knowledge of the history of our country. We are talking a lot about immigration in recent times. I believe that our country and, above all, the young generations do not know the history of Italian emigration into the world and there is a sort of cesura. I stress this to say that the RAI once had this great merit. There have been broadcasts that have made the most beautiful story of RAI. Lately, however, this type of production has been absolutely lacking. I therefore believe that it is absolutely important to accept this proposal because the rapporteur, Senator Ranucci, has asked the proposers to withdraw amendment 1,389 and to turn it into an agenda. As far as we are concerned, we ask Senator Crosio to be able to add the signature to the amendment and consequently to the agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crosio, do you accept the rapporteur's invitation to withdraw amendment 1,389 and to turn it into an agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u93	Mr President, not only do I accept the rapporteur's invitation, but I welcome the fact that my amendments are accepted with enthusiasm by this House. I therefore apologise to the rapporteur, because it may have been my mistake to have been overly narrowed when I explained the amendments. With regard to the subsequent amendments, which are essentially similar to these before us and which touch on a number of important issues relating to the public service, it will be my concern to explain them in a more comprehensive way, in order to be able to share them enthusiastically with the House. It seems to me that the amending proposals are going in the right direction and, as far as possible, we will try to improve the measure, although we do not like it and will not receive our vote in favour. I would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Ranucci, and ask that the agenda be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u94	The agenda for G1.389 is set aside, pending a vote with the other agendas. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,390, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,391 tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1,392.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u97	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, Amendment 1,392 deals with another subject related to the public service, which concerns the importance of transmissions on the subject of work within the programming, with reference to its conditions, but also to its protection and security. Too often we have been confronted with the fact that in our country the work is damaged by tragic events and, although it is done so much in legislative and regulatory terms, it is extremely important that the public service reserves a thought and transmission to this topic. It is understood that, as is the case in most European televisions, I am referring not only to ads at the impetus of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and similar, but also to broadcasts dedicated to the protection of public health and the safety of everyday work. I would therefore urge the rapporteur to consider whether he could agree to this amendment or to give a favourable opinion on whether it should be turned into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u100	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to accept Amendment No 1,392, which comes after some amendments that talk about everything and the opposite of everything, even with surprise. I saw the interest of the members of the League in the previous amendments, which is new, in a whole series of aspects; there was no specific reference to immigrants, but they were somehow highlighted because we talked not only about folklore and tourism, but also about respect for different ethnic cultures. So this seemed new to me, but there was everything and the opposite of everything. Even there was the incentive for non-profit organizations performing shows on the territory. So, in the end, in the previous amending proposals there was the protection of Made in Italy, but it was not understood in what form. While I fully support this amendment. We are talking about a very important issue: the protection of safety at work, which is very dear to me, which is often improperly spoken of, perhaps more because of electoral consensus or in the wake of accidents and fatal accidents that fill the front pages of our newspapers. You always talk to people's belly. Safety, on the other hand, is something that must enter everyday life. We must make a culture of security and learn to distinguish what is useful from what is merely a bureaucratic formality. I have had experiences in the past of films shown in schools (projects with ANMIL), in which they showed the boys, especially the boys of technical institutes, the episodes in which they told the dynamics of an accident, of how an untrained apprentice, maybe salaried in black, went to work in a company and distractedly put his hand under a press and suffered a serious injury. Well an image of that kind is so incisive, it remains so in memory and is so formative, more than a thousand pages written, because the strength of images and the strength of witness give a teaching that so many abstract words cannot transmit. We, with the implementing decrees of the jobs act, had the opportunity to make the changes simpler and more effective also with regard to safety. But this has not been understood, nor by us, nor by the Government, because there is no preparation on this subject. We are going to legislate, it is a technical problem, but we often do not know how. Then we continue to take action, even if fatal accidents have dropped (for the number of hours worked less, actually). But we do have situations that leave us very disconcerted. Recently we had, for example, the fire of Fiumicino and the even more recent fire of Modugno. Then one does not explain why, despite the abundant legislation in force for so many years, an all too detailed rule then is not precautionary even for the occurrence of these accidents. So the hope is that there will be broadcasts that talk about this topic and that they will call on people who are competent to do so, from the technicians of the prevention of ASL to those who tell us a bit about the history of medicine and safety in the workplace. We are the home of Ramazzini, Devoto, the first institute of occupational medicine in Milan. On the other hand, we often put ourselves on the defensive side of European directives and legislation, when we have absolutely nothing to learn. I remember that, when the machinery directive came out, we practically did a size and glued what we already had into the machinery directive; everything had already been transposed. Then, to return to making programmes on these issues means first of all to raise awareness of the importance of safety and to work safely. It also means pointing out to the worker that work is a duty, right and value and is all the more valuable as it is the gratification and expression of human abilities and the realization of the human being. That is why I call for this amendment to be signed on behalf of the 5 Star Movement Group. The 5 Star Movement, in fact, is in favour of the protection of all, the protection of the last, it is in favour of giving right to all, even if it is not absolutely in favour of assistantism, as is often reproached in the name of a right because, in reality, it is well aware that before everything should be tried to give a job to everyone. Work must be seen as a right and the State should engage in this. But work as a right also means safe work, therefore right to realization and right not to be exposed to risks and dangers. Recently, however, this Government, which fills its mouth so much and gets beautiful on certain topics in the conferences or when the victims claim attention, has made available a decree relating to failures and ILVA in which practically a company is authorized to profit and move forward without the protection measures. I urge you to think about this. What will happen if one day, working under conditions against the law and against current prescriptions, among other things generic, then another accident happens? Therefore, let us make a culture of security, teach it and make it a daily act, and let us all subscribe to this amendment. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u101	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,392, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators, until the words "the theme of the work" are mentioned. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1,392 and amendment 1,393 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,394, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,395, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,396 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,397, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u104	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I just wanted to point out that in the last vote I was unable to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u105	The Presidency takes note of this. Amendments 1.398 and 1.399 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,400, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Crosio and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,401. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,402, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,403.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u108	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, with this amendment we want to bring to the attention of the House the issue of broadcasts that contribute to the knowledge of Italian, foreign languages and, above all, computer literacy. It is clear that our country stands out for being at the last places in Europe, after Turkey, Romania and Bulgaria, as regards the use of computers and related technologies. Among the regions that are not doing well, in this country, we see that in Campania 60% of the people between 16 and 74 have never touched a keyboard and it is not that in the other regions of Italy goes much better. Without wishing to make comparisons with the Scandinavian countries, we see that Spain is also surpassing us and not a little. This amendment therefore goes in the very direction of enabling TV to work in this area as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u111	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I would like to ask Senator Crosio to sign his amendment, reminding us precisely about the learning of foreign languages that, while our country has an excellent dubbing service, on the other hand, the fact that we have not handled the broadcasts in the original language forces our students to an exposure to foreign languages far lower than that to which students from other countries are normally encouraged, who have more care for the transmissions in the original language. I would therefore like to thank Senator Crosio for his attention to this issue and ask him to be able to accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u114	SCIBONA (M5S). Mr President, on behalf of my colleagues in the Group, I would like to endorse this amendment. As I said earlier, the function of RAI was and must be again that of literacy. Given that computer science is not yet part of the cognitive abilities of at least certain categories of citizens, it is essential to educate and broaden the mentality of Italian citizens in this field as well. It is therefore necessary for the public service to start again to have an educational function: this can be one of the fundamental issues in which this can be pursued.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u117	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I too would like to be able to endorse Senator Crosio's amendment. By participating in the European Union's Political Commission, we have learned of the paradox that Italy is one of the most IT-infrastructured nations in Europe, but that it has one of the lowest IT networks in Europe. If RAI can be useful as a public service, it should also be to promote computerization, the relaunch and development of computer science and the use of these large networks that we have at our disposal. As far as foreign languages are concerned, I also believe that this is an important function and that the public service role of RAI needs to be further developed in this area as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u120	LIUZZI (CRI). Mr President, I would also ask you to accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u121	The Presidency takes note of the requests for subscription that have been made. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,403 tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,404 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,405, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,406 to 1,408 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u124	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I also withdraw Amendment 1,409.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u125	I take note of that. Amendments 1,409 to 1,414 have been withdrawn. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.22, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,416 and 1,417 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,418.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u128	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I rise to point out to the House the content of this amendment which we will of course be voting in favour of. Since the radio and television service provided by RAI is a public service and everyone is required to pay the fee, which is not in proportion to the service offered but only in relation to the ownership of the instrument, we are particularly interested in the fact that this service offers a certain type of programming. In point (a) of amendment 1,418 we are talking about information programmes and general deepening also with regard to institutional and parliamentary information. In fact, we mean that the service provided must not be an information service - pass me the term - governmental, but must be based as much as possible on a criterion of pluralism, which is not only the paredicium in the electoral campaign. In fact, when information is given through the TGs and the various services, the possibility of representing, with reference to each individual problem, not only the topic supported by the government majority, but also, in particular, the point of view of the various forms of opposition must be ensured. It is also very important - even if I do not read it all - that is contained in point (c), which deals with cultural promotion programmes and headings. Also in this case it is very important to value all those broadcasts and documentaries that have as their objective the promotion and the valorization of tourism and made in Italy in the world. Being a period of crisis and considering that the same sector for many years has been a carrier also in Northern Italy, where the manufacturing sector is suffering a strong decline, we must think that Italy was born for tourism and has all the resources to be really a pole of attraction for the whole world. Equally important in point (f) is the promotion of programmes for children in the original language. It seems a banality, but the mind of a child has a remarkable receptivity and if you transmit programs of this type you will also have the possibility of an education to learn foreign languages. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u131	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I wish to endorse this amendment. However, I would like you to reflect on the fact that we have already voted, and the majority rejected, other amendments which gave very similar indications to these amendments; amendments tabled by Senator Crosio, who had already offered, precisely in previous amendments, a fair reflection aimed at the inclusion, in the programming of the public service in favour of citizenship, of issues such as equal opportunities, history, language and local identities. You voted against it while we voted in favour. I really don't know what we're talking about; what do you want it to be transmitted? I do not understand how you have already been able to vote against certain indications of common sense and respect, also because there are numerous associations of families and of the protection of minors who have aggregated themselves precisely to make demands in this regard. I would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to reflect on this amendment, which is indeed a valuable opportunity to recover the opposing votes that you have given because it is a proposal that includes all of them: we give the right indications that adequate space is given to the social reality, to associations, movements and tourism realities; fair spaces of information and respect for children, for minors, for our young people who live in a state of crisis, a reality in which they no longer have any reference. Through public service, we must also ensure the future of young people. We must ensure that information is provided; that national sporting events are transmitted to direct our young people to these correct practices as well. We must absolutely ensure that the productions value Made in Italy; we have also presented a bill for this: at least televisionly we guarantee the valorization and respect of Made in Italy. Mr President, on behalf of my Group too, I would therefore ask you to accept Amendment No 1,418 and I would seriously urge Members to vote in favour of it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u134	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I too would like to add my signature to Amendment 1,418.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u135	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,418, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,419.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u138	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, since the best location would certainly be the service contract in which we included these aspects, I would like to highlight two fundamental points. At the same time, emphasis should be placed on institutional and parliamentary information, which is carried out in an absolutely effective manner by RAI Parliament, even though unfortunately it is not very sensitive time slots (in the early morning or at night), because citizens obviously do not need to be informed during the day of what is happening in Parliament, and it would be important to do so. (at 12.14 p.m.) (Following AIROLA). Equally important is information about social phenomena and different religions - as it is written in the amendment. In fact, a research has evidenced that the space dedicated to religious information, that is, all the programming of religious content on the entire RAI schedule, sees the Catholic religion with more than 90 percent representativeness, while the spaces dedicated to other non-Catholic religions (Wadden, Protestant, Jewish, Islamic) are really very small. Given the social evolution of our country, it would be very important to return to represent our society in a more appropriate way, not only in the service contract: it would be good to reiterate it here too. Social phenomena: our society is changing very quickly; the representation of our society turns out to be old-fashioned, even if something is taking place. I am referring, in particular, to the family models that are emerging, because the social fabric has changed profoundly; I am referring to the exact representation of people who have a different sexual orientation or a different gender identity, which are normally represented, even these, in a less formative and unrealistic and plausible way. The amendment is a way of stressing the need for RAI to give a social representation as close as possible to the current situation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u139	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u141	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I would like to speak in support of amendment 1,419, and I would also like to ask that we be able to endorse it. I believe that, in addition to the reasons contained in the text, which have been explained, there is another general reason for the public service approach. The darkening, in fact, of certain transmissions, because of the impossibility, because of the slots intended for them, of being able to be followed by the most, causes a double damage, in addition to those already illustrated. Being like water, the need for information goes to search, sometimes, for transmissions on private networks or anything else (which I do not intend to judge), which, however, obviously, become objective element of competition on a different terrain, that is the commercial one. I do not intend to penalise the commercial aspect, but I intend to put our country, through its strongest and most powerful instrument of information, communication and cultural deepening, in a position to keep the competition. If, then, instead, the objective, the reference and the mission are to do, as is often the case, show, if not even scandal on certain issues, very delicate and sensitive, we are put in an objective condition to lower the level of quality. So we do not allow the public instrument to be able to compete adequately and with the strong arguments of quality. We have seen that, where there have been, even in experimental form, programmes of this nature, these have a very strong follow-up and attention which is due to them. We will therefore certainly vote in favour of this amendment and ask that we be able to endorse it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Airola accepts your subscription.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u144	MINEO (PD). Madam President, I find the reference to real pluralism in the amendment very appropriate and I am particularly sensitive, having worked thirty-five years in RAI, to the question of religious pluralism. I would therefore ask Senator Airola if he accepts for me the possibility of signing this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u145	Senator Airola has accepted. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,419, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,420 to 1,423 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u148	AIROLA (MS5). Mr President, I also withdraw Amendment 1,424. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that. Amendments 1,424 to 1,431 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,432 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,433 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,434 to 1,442 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,443 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,444 to 1,451 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,452 tabled by Senator Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,453 to 1,457 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,458.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u151	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, this amendment also brings to the attention of the House the issue of broadcasts dedicated to social phenomena, different religions and the living conditions of the country. Sometimes, unfortunately, we find representations a little'sweetened and, even if something has been done in recent times, it is still too little.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u152	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,458 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,459 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,460.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u153	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u155	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I am voting in favour of this amendment because in it, as in others, it is essential to make the most of the languages, identities, customs and cultural heritage of the country. Italy is one of the countries with the greatest presence of linguistic minorities and is the most distracted: in Leipzig there is a chair of Sardinian and in Italy, instead, there is an operation of serious omission of that reality and of other existing ones. We don't study ourselves, we don't want to know our differences. There is an operation to standardize interventions to the detriment of the weakest. Politics are homologated, from economic to cultural ones, having a very limited picture of the reality of the country. 12.23 p.m. (URAS follow). If this continues, this is the same defect and limit that Europe is dragging: instead of a globalization that composes and includes us we will go towards a process of forced unification, under an authoritarian pressure, under centralist policies and under uniform visions and that recall the uniformity of each of us to a single thought, under the idea of the abolition of differences (which sometimes are divergences but sometimes also encounters). That is why I intend to sign this amendment, if my colleague will allow me, and I say that, as far as I can, I will speak on this matter from now on. In fact, I believe that this is an issue that the Government and the majority must put forward. But they do not have to put it because we ask them or ask them the cultures, the local and regional communities of this country, those that belong to the minorities so widespread that they basically constitute the whole of this country in its capacity to be articulated, but because it is a problem for you and the majority and the government to respond to these needs. It is not that we are asking for a place in some Ministry, we are not making customers: we are saying that there is a cultural problem and that there is a draft law in question on this subject, that you can never get off the ground and bring to the Chamber. What do you have to do to realize that there is something to do and you have to do it? What are you afraid of, spending a few hundred thousand euros on culture? Do the Germans do it in Leipzig and can't we do it in Italy? What's the real reason? What, is the Risorgimento culture endangered by the fact that they are different? Cavour also knew that we were different and unification cannot be a war of domination that never ends, but a process that is acquired, with its true nature. We in Italy are made by a composition of people and it is necessary that the Government and the State realize it, finally! [[Applause from Senators Bignami, De Pin and Bocchino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u158	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, in order to save time, I will not repeat what Senator Uras has said, which I fully endorse. I would therefore like to add my signature to Amendment 1,460. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that. Colleagues, since there are several other requests for subscription, please report them directly to the Offices.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u159	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u161	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, more than an explanation of vote, I am calling on the majority to accept the proposals received by my colleague, Mr Uras. Surely it is not an improbable economic commitment, but rather a mission that should have RAI: it is fair to say that there is a coalition of peoples that forms the nation and there is no will to arrive at a disintegration, but to a greater knowledge of this composition that has formed and formed our Italy today. Moreover, there are reasons why, as Sardinian, I ask Italy to carry out this mission, because it is difficult to make known its cultural heritage, especially when it is on an island, which is also difficult to reach. The RAI, for example, last Monday aired on Rai 2, during the broadcast "Voyager", a service on Sardinia, its cultural identities and its cultural heritage; well, three days later, they tell me that there are important expressions of interest on the possibility of reaching these sites. Therefore these broadcasts also have an economic function, if it is true that tourism is an important economic engine for our island. Although I know that it probably will not, I would therefore urge the majority to consider this amendment which, at a very low cost, has absolutely positive effects.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u162	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,460, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We note that Senator Pelino voted in favour. Amendments 1,461 and 1,462 have been withdrawn. (at 12.30 a.m.) I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,463 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). [[Protests of Senator Ciampolillo]] Everyone votes from his station and directly. We're gonna have Senators check it out. [[Comments from the PD Group. Protests from the M5S Group.]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I ask the secretary senators to check if there are any cards not used by their owners.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u163	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u165	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I say this in order to continue the work as smoothly and correctly as possible: you know that the votes by delegation in this House are not admissible. [[Comments of Senator Giovanardi]] It is already several times that Senator Sposetti, although not at his post, turns out to have voted. Madam President, you saw that in the previous vote Senator Sposetti was at the foot of the hemicycle and the neighboring senator voted on her behalf. Therefore, at least canceling Senator Sposetti's vote seems to me to be a good and sensible thing, nothing else.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u166	I think Senator Spousetti didn't commit a crime. Senator Santangelo, Senator Sposetti was present in the Chamber, confirms his vote and we ask him to express it physically. [[Vivacious protests by Senators Santangelo and Ciampolillo]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Shame! CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). What he said is very serious! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I understand your remark; the matter has been resolved and from now on Senator Sposetti will express his vote from his post. [[Senator Bencini points out that she wants to intervene.]] The matter before the debate is closed, so we shall proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,464.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u167	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u169	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, Amendment 1,464 was also intended to give an adequate representation of Italian society which is changing very quickly. I come from Turin, from a quarter with 35% immigration, and we need to give TV support too, because TV is really the medium that enters all the houses, even those of foreign families. We need a glue, something that helps integration, which is already difficult. Moreover, my city (but we can talk about the whole of Italy) sometimes does not have the resources to give citizens adequate services to promote this very difficult integration; in this sense, TV has a great role, also to allow foreign citizens to approach our culture and vice versa, because this is the current situation in Italian society.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u170	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u172	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I would like to make an explanation of vote on Amendment No 1,464 and also to make an invitation to the Government and to the rapporteurs, who seem to me to be a little too quiet. The subject which has been put forward in several amendments and by several political groups, and which, as far as I know, is also a patrimony of the Democratic Party, is that of minority languages and their recognition, through practical forms. We are passing a delegation law, so we give the Government the possibility, through the implementing measures, to proceed later, but I ask the Government and the rapporteurs what it wants to take note of a situation that is no longer postponed: Italy has not transposed the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages for decades, so it is not in breach. Italy, European and Western, is in breach of the rights of the language and this does not only concern Sardinia, but all the specific regions and local areas, the cultural islands that are present in our country. We all agree, we present draft laws that are signed by everyone, then comes the Government of turn and puts a kind of boulder on this cultural requirement that is now inescapable. But do you want to say something? Are you afraid of losing your honor? Do you think we're talking about something to be ashamed of? It is a question of previewing that in the public broadcasting service we can think of making culture, specifically with reference to regional minority languages, those which we, European Italy, have not wanted to recognize, because we do not yet receive the European Charter, because governments arrive that have preserved this ancient nationalist culture, pre-risorgical, archaic, aristocracy Sabauda stuff, and have preserved it from autonomy to today, from the Constitution to today. What must be done for all of us to gain the dignity of being people, representatives of our communities, who fulfil even international obligations of attention to minorities? What do you have to do? What do we have to ask you? What's the matter? Who's forbidding you? Let the Government give an answer, let the rapporteurs give it: take all the amendments that deal with this subject, make a proposal, make it the Democratic Party, intervene the Leaders, say that within a week or ten days of the resumption the discussion of the bill Palermo is fixed in the Chamber, signed by all of us who have undertaken to address the problem of minority languages. Mr Pegorer (PD). Not just Senator Palermo! URAS (Misto-SEL). Not only Senator Palermo, of course, but also Senators Pegorer, Uras and others, I synthesize, but it is to say everyone has long been engaged on this front, in this legislature but also in the previous ones. What does it take to do something obvious? I also agree with the Lombards and those who are in Milan, even the Sicilians agree. There is no one in this country who disagrees with this issue. Can the Government, the Democratic Party, which is the relative majority party in this House and also in the other, the rapporteur and the leaders take an initiative? This can be done in this way: first of all it is established that at the recovery we are dealing with the problem of the law deposited in the Commission, which is now ready and for which we have held all the hearings there; it is not an excessive cost, it is a few things. Otherwise, the government takes courage, together with the rapporteur, and packs an amendment that we can all vote for. It's natural and you don't understand why you don't have to do it. [[Applause from Senator Pegorer.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u173	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u175	BENCINI (Mixed). I would like to comment on the order of business. Madam President, when there are so many votes and we do not know how long the senators will speak in support of their amendments, there is a need to be able to get out of the place in order to stretch out their legs and avoid the famous thrombosis or even, perhaps because women have a more labile bladder, we need to leave for a moment. So, or we set a time when maybe, after two hours of vote, you give yourself five minutes to get out or you give us a remote control to vote or we entrust our vote to the fellow Member next door. [[Applause from Senator Buemi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u176	I understand that there are physiological needs. That being said, to allow senators to program them, I warn you that at 13.30 there will be a suspension. I say this so the senators are aware of it and then of course each will keep to his own personal needs.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u177	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u179	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, I would like to take the opportunity of the debate that prompted this amendment to point out that there is still a crystallised attitude in this House decades ago, as if we all did not want to realize that it is all right to protect and work for the enhancement of our local and national cultural, linguistic and identity patrimony, and it is all right to value the so-called minority groups, but all this - and I have not heard a person in this House doing this reasoning - should also be done with a view to finding common matrixes in this cultural, identity and linguistic heritage that can promote, precisely starting from the common matrix linking different cultures, an integration operation to promote the development and integration of peoples and cultures. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator, you should conclude because your colleague, Mr Airola, spoke on the amendment. Montevecchi (M5S). In my opinion, however, I was making an important point. I would like the House to reflect on this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Yes, but your colleague has already spoken about the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u180	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u182	RANUCCI, rapporteur. Madam President, it seems to me that a very broad and very heated debate is taking place. Mr Uras, I would just like to remind you that we still have to deal with Article 5. With reference to the same in the Commission, amendments have been tabled exactly for the issues you have mentioned. Therefore, there is no lack of sensitivity or willingness to deal with them, because there is provision for broadcasting radio and television broadcasts in German as well. With regard to Article 5, there are a number of amendments that will talk about this. Our silence is only because we do not want to have these discussions on a number of occasions. As regards Amendments Nos 1,464 and 1,465, the positive opinion on the substance of certain aspects. The problems of languages and dissemination throughout the national territory in Article 5 will be satisfied, in particular Article 5 (c) refers to the broadcasting of public service television and radio broadcasting throughout the national territory. So, we've moved forward with the job. I hope that when we get to Article 5 we will succeed, or you will be able to find elements that already exist and that can be of satisfaction with the various thesis of this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, do you still keep Amendment 1,464? AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to speak on the order of business. What the rapporteur, Senator Ranucci, has said is right and I said it before. In my opinion, it is right that these issues should be debated in this House, because they have often been debated in the parliamentary committee for the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services, but they have not had the proper dissemination and sharing both within and within the president. Senator Airola, do you still ask for the vote on the amendment? AIROLA (M5S). Yeah, but knowing there's this option.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u183	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,464, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would remind you that amendments 1,465 to 1,489 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,490, tabled by Senator Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,491 tabled by Senator Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,492, tabled by Senator Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,493, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,493 tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,494 to 1,498 have been withdrawn. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,28, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini, identical to amendments 1,29, tabled by Senator Airola and other Senators, 1,500, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other Senators, and 1,501, tabled by Senator Crosio and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.502 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,503 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,504 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.505 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,506 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.31, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.507 and 1.508 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on the agendas set out above. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G01,200, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G01.201, presented by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G01.202, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I invite the speakers and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda G01.254.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u184	Madam President, I agree, but the formula should be to commit the government to "take into account" in complying with the service contract.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u185	So to evaluate...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u186	Do you agree with that proposal, Senator Mineo? MINEO (PD). Madam President, in terms of what the rapporteur has said, that is to say, to commit the Government to taking into account, and not to evaluate, I welcome the proposal for reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u187	Madam President, as I said at the beginning, on the agendas, the government's position is to return to the House, not because, as in this case, there is not a full sharing of the rapporteur's idea, but because I find it a typical instrument of the expression of the political position.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u188	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G01.254 (text 2), tabled by Senators Mineo and Tocci. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1,358, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.389, presented by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1,100, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1,101, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.102, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.103, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda (Right text).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u189	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u190	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u191	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this agenda is to allow for the clear transmission of the two channels of the Chamber and Senate on digital terrestrial channels today, unfortunately, only visible on the satellite platform and therefore visible only by those who own a satellite TV decoder for payment or by the very few owners of so-called free-to-air satellite decoders. I do not think that the government and the current majority are missing the importance of ensuring that every citizen is able to watch Parliament's sessions free of charge on television. The direct knowledge of what is happening in Parliament, of how a process of formation and discussion of a specific legislative provision takes place, the behaviour of political forces and individual parliamentarians are, in my opinion, issues of such constitutional importance that they cannot be entrusted only to free-to-air or paid satellite television and therefore, as is often the case in Italy, guaranteed exclusively to those who have the economic means to benefit from satellite television reception. Access to the television vision of parliamentary work is a right of every citizen and must be guaranteed equally to everyone. Moreover, the potential and the diffusion of digital terrestrial also allow the technical to be able to easily realize all this. The RAI has five mux for a bandwidth capacity of over 100 megabits so it is technically possible to insert two national LCNs in clear on digital terrestrial. The question, therefore, is why it has not been considered, until now, to make a specific commitment to this end. The doubt, in other words, is that such non-commitment by public institutions and RAI finds its reason in fear of being able to have a citizenship that expresses itself freely and without the filter of a journalistic chronicle very often, as we have seen, partial and biased. There is much talk of transparency of the institutions and openness of the palaces of power to the citizens: therefore, the free and clear vision of parliamentary work through the implementation of two national channels, the so-called LCN, would certainly be a significant signal in this direction. The 5 Star Movement is on the side of the citizens and continues to feel on every single parliamentary initiative, like the one we are talking about, that only by putting oneself at the service of the citizens can we give a true meaning to what we do here, every day, in Parliament. That is why I call for this agenda to be voted on and approved by everyone. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u192	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u194	VACCIANO (Mixed). Madam President, I would ask you to subscribe to Senator Ciampollo's agenda, which goes exactly in the direction you wanted yesterday, when approving the internal budget, for the maximum possible transparency of the Senate's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u195	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u197	TAVERNA (M5S). Madam President, I would also ask you to sign the agenda G1,104 (correct text).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u198	The Presidency authorizes you to do so. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda G1.104 (correct text), presented by Senator Ciampolillo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.105, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would remind you that the agenda was adopted as a recommendation. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.107, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.108, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.109, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.110, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.111, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 1 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.1, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I have the provision of Article 2 because, as you know, a rapporteur's amendment was tabled yesterday, to which numerous amendments have been tabled - indeed, I would say very many - which are being organised, and which are then made available to the House. We therefore proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u199	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u201	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, in view of the fact that Article 2 has been put aside, we should reorganise ourselves in order to explain the amendments to Article 3. Therefore, I would ask you for a suspension of at least ten minutes to settle the papers, given the complexity of the texts. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The assumption of the provision had already been made at yesterday's Conference of Leaders. SANTANGELO (M5S). The hypothesis is one thing, but the communication is now being made and we simply need ten minutes to reorder the file of amendments to Article 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u202	I partially accept your request and suspend the sitting for about 5 minutes until 13.10 a.m. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1.10 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u203	Madam President, the amendments we have tabled to Article 3 are designed to delete this and subsequent articles, which announce the single text with provisions concerning RAI management, contrary to our vision of a new reform of RAI, in which it is expected... Madam President, I'm sorry, we're out of government. I don't want to be a stickler.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u204	Two Undersecretaries are present in the Chamber, so you can continue your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u205	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). My consideration was linked to a mere matter of practice, President. As I was saying, our amendments are deleted because we do not agree with the inclusion of additional articles on the issue of RAI management, having a completely different view as to the privatisation of RAI.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u206	Madam President, with regard to the amendments we have tabled to Article 3, the most important - we can also revise it in the explanation of vote - is the exclusion of invitations or invitations to tender from television products, transmission time and so on. This is because, even with an absolutely transparent procedure, RAI is obliged to buy projects or products - for example, a documentary - made by companies that then realize them too. Then, to acquire a project and then to race to give it to someone else would certainly create an inappropriate product: it is not the usual practice that exists in this economic and productive sector, so this is the main point. Then there is another amendment that concerns the exclusion of the managing director from the roofs provided for other members of the board of directors, employees, non-artistic advisors of RAI. The RAI, as we have had the opportunity to say on several occasions, has to face a remarkable revolution: it is still a failed structure, from a certain point of view, because it is too large, because it is employed in too many sectors. It therefore needs profound rationalization. To do this, even in the light of the CEO profile that the Government proposes in this bill, with great, immense decision-making powers, we need a real professional. This - I repeat - compared to the mediocrity that has caused the interference of politics, parties, client interests within the RAI, we really need to change mentality, change strategy and think instead of finding a good competent manager in the areas that concern RAI's action, therefore in the editorial field (a word that is little used talking about RAI). RAI, in fact, is the largest Italian cultural industry - it is said - but it is also a great publishing company and it takes someone competent in that field, also in the field of market, in the sector where RAI moves: purchase of products, sales. Demanding all this competence and this high performance from the managing director, we cannot then claim the profile of one that earns 200,000 euros; unfortunately, in fact, in today's market these are not the prices. It is therefore appropriate, in the consistency of the request for a very high competence, not to set such a restrictive ceiling solely for the figure of the managing director. Madam President, I shall shortly pass on a list of amendments which I intend to withdraw. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, Senator. If you pass it on to the Presidency, it will simplify our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u207	Madam President, we have proposed a number of amendments to Article 3. Senator Airola rightly recalled certain specifications relating to the Procurement Code, which we discussed at the delegation law already approved by this branch of Parliament and under discussion in the Chamber of Deputies. Paragraph 2 of Article 3 refers to the fact that works, services and supplies below the thresholds of Community importance are not subject to procedural obligations and so on. We would like to recall what we said during the debate on the contract code: we are talking about substantial amounts, because the threshold of Community importance for works is EUR 5.150,000 and, for services and supplies, it is about EUR 200,000. This provision, therefore, is partly contrary to what we have said in relation to the contract code (but we will see these things as we discuss the amendments). There are, then, a few other aspects, which we will discuss in detail when we arrive at the specific amendment. For example, with Amendment 3,218 we explain that the CEO must make everything transparent, while respecting, of course, the protection of personal data, in relation to the tasks entrusted: everything must be readable, so that there is a great capacity for transparency of the RAI, which we think is really important. We had also provided for a provision concerning the determination of the Authority for Energy and Gas, which specifies that consultancy tasks cannot be paid unless the publication of the acts with which the assignment was entrusted, the compensations and other things of this kind is made known in an absolutely transparent manner. On the other hand, all we do is make the provisions of an important Authority such as the Authority for Energy and Gas. Then there are other aspects that we will see specifically when we talk about the amendments in detail. Perhaps we should intervene point by point, so that we can be clearer in the vote. In fact, apart from the general explanation of the amendments relating to a whole article, it is good that every time we vote on specific amendments, we take action to make the House better educated on what we are voting on.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u208	Madam President, on Article 3 we have tabled, in particular, two amendments, on 3.1 and 3.8, which I shall briefly present. Amendment 3.1 is deleted from Article 3, because we believe, in essence, that the powers and functions of the current Director-General should be confirmed. In this article 3 we talk about the CEO and, therefore, his responsibilities and his powers. We will speak on the specific amendments, because the matter will come back, from here to the end of the debate. We believe that this Managing Director appointed by the Government who, even if with a filter operated by the Board of Directors, is substantially appointed by the Government, has excessive powers and goes to unbalance precisely that harmony of relations guaranteed by the law in force. Among other things, this law will be applied for the fourth time in the coming days. And it's a record for that law, which is having more applications than critical. There have been many criticisms, but there are countless applications. In that current law, which currently regulates the production of the public service, the Director-General is appointed by the Government, the shareholder, the Treasury. We know that perfectly well. But this new text of law replaces the Director General a CEO because it is said that, in the end, RAI is a company like all the others. But the public service, which was discussed this morning (and there were also comments from Senator Mineo, who recalled some definitions that were not accepted) has its own specificity. Not just because the State, the Treasury, owns 99% of the shares. The remaining symbolic share has the Siae, a particular that few know. But the Siae, in fact, is a public reality in that it is the society of authors and publishers that must protect copyright, and it is a symbolic presence, while the Treasury has 99 percent. And then there are the famous sentences that, over 40 years, have marked the life of RAI. We believe that the article should be repealed, but then we will also come back to this in the other articles, because an imbalance is being achieved. There are specific definitions, with regard to the text of the article, that we believe should be revised. And this is a further reason for reflection for the government. We therefore criticize some of the points in this text which we are debating and voting to future memory because, in the meantime, we will apply the current law in the next few days. Then we will see, when we vote on it, when we will close the debate and when the House will deal with it. It seems to me that it is difficult for the House to continue its work in order to vote on a law which will then apply in the future. The points we have criticized are this role of the CEO in relation to the Council, which must remain Parliament's issue. Even this text, when and if it is adopted, will maintain a parliamentary facility, even if it reduces the members from nine to seven and those elected by Parliament are four out of seven. On the other hand, the current law, which will be applied, means that there are seven out of nine members elected by Parliament, even though through the Supervisory Committee. Of the other two nominated by the Government, one, who is the President, must obtain two thirds of the votes of the Supervisory Board. Therefore, if there is no transparent convergence of consensus of a significant number of members of the Supervisory Board, this President appointed by the Government does not become such. In practice, even one of the two Councillors appointed by the Government, in fact, according to the law that we approved in 2004, is of parliamentary origin, because if he does not obtain two thirds of the votes of the Supervisory Board he cannot be elected. So Parliament has the last word. Our amendments to this Article 3 focus on the imbalance between the function of the CEO and the Board of Directors. And I repeat once again that the Council is not a division, but an expression of democracy and of Parliament. If the public service is to be parliamentaryized - a term that uses the judgments of the Court, not me - it means that it must be subject to democratic control by Parliament. Then, if there is the degeneration of lotteries and partitions, it must be fought regardless, but that there is a body of summit, leadership, direction and management, like the board of directors expressed by Parliament, is an expression of democracy. The citizens express Parliament and this gives confidence to the governments, in electing the Presidents of the Chamber and Senate, the members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the Constitutional Court. I also say this to my colleagues who sometimes point the finger at division: let them remember that Parliament is the expression of democracy and it is clear that we are divided here (the voters voted for various lists and proposals, each of which represents a segment of the country). Is this democracy or is it division? Degenerations, then, are another question: whether you move from parties to the partycracy or whether you move from pluralism to lottification. A parliamentary source, however, is crucial. We will therefore also insist on the discussion on Article 3, as we will do on other issues, on this aspect of the relationship between Director-General/CEO and Council, as well as on the delegations, which, however, are not in Article 3, which, if granted indefinitely and too widely to the Government, would create a criticality that cannot be overcome. I also say this to my fellow Members who ask when they vote, when they debate and when they finish the examination of the draft law in question: it depends on the balance that is being held, because the amendments are not pretentious, but they highlight some issues. For us, the issue of the CEO, his powers and the delegation, of which we will discuss later, are central and resolvable de iure condendoing. Then there will be a review of the House and the law is important, but it has become no more urgent, since in the meantime it applies what there is: a bit of reflection and rationality I therefore believe that they serve everyone. The issues are essential: we have spent time on pluralism, local information and languages, forgetting, ladies and gentlemen, that RAI today has 13 channels, so now, at 1.30 p.m., it can transmit information, sport, programmes in English and those on local cultures at the same time. Sometimes we forget that the modernisation made with the previous step has created a potential. If it is then to be wondered if people will see more of the program on the cultures of the inland areas of Sardinia or Fiorello, let the viewer and the citizen decide: as I said days ago, we cannot propose in prime time on a single channel a pure praiseworthy monograph on Majakovsky. There are 13 channels, in which they will also find programs on local cultures or dedicated to minors (there are even two of the RAI, if I'm not mistaken, divided by age groups, for the youngest and for the older ones). When preparing agendas and amendments, therefore, first use the remote control at home and see that the world has already changed. Many, in fact, propose things because they think that there is only one television channel, because they do not see it: seeing it, however, serves to understand how the world has already changed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u209	Colleagues, we arrived at 13:30: in view of the meeting between the Conferences of the Heads of the Senate and Chamber, which had already been scheduled for 14:00, I suspend the work, which will resume at 15:30. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 13.28 a.m. and resumed at 3.32 p.m.) Colleagues, let us take up the explanation of the amendments tabled in Article 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u210	Mr President, as my fellow Members have already said, Article 3 lays down economic bases which are still, at this time of deep crisis, necessary. It is therefore necessary to place limits on management, which must certainly be very professional but cannot have a blank card, i.e. it must have limits from an economic point of view. A whole series of amendments are therefore aimed at putting a stop to this escalation, also because of course at a time when management has no limits of compensation, a world opens up also with regard to the programmer part and all other professional figures, conductors, soubrettes, who at that point might ask what they want. In fact, putting a limit on management compensation is also able to put a limit on those of the remaining part of the professional figures present in the RAI. I would therefore say that, even in the light of the current economic situation and of respect for those with much less money and does not even reach the second week, you can put a stop to these gold wages. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments and the agenda are set out. I call on the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u211	Mr President, I would like to give you an indication of what you think is good, so let's do it first. I am in favour of Amendments 3,205 and 3.3 if reworded. On Amendment 3,218 the opinion also supports the following rewording: add the words "non-artistic" after the words "directive" in any capacity conferred, as well as collaboration and advice.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u212	Senator Ranucci, Amendment 3,205 replaces Article 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u213	RANUCCI, rapporteur. Then the opinion is against it, Mr President. The opinion is, of course, in favour of amendment 3.237. On Amendment 3,268 the opinion is in favour, rewording the first lines and referring not to 2% of the budget but to what is contained in the RAI statute. As far as the agenda is concerned, Mr G3.100, the opinion is opposed because we are talking about a responsibility for managing public administrators through the introduction of a legal order. Public administrators are already expected to be subject to the responsibilities of the Civil Code. On Amendment 3.0,200, to add an additional article after Article 3, I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u214	I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u215	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u216	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u217	STEFANI (LN-Aut). I would like to comment on the order of business. I would like to point out that the RAI Supervisory Committee is still in session where colleagues are held, who are the contact points for many groups of the measure, because of their competence on the subject. We submit to you this problem and the possible need to wait for them to return.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u218	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u219	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u220	FILIPPI (PD). Mr President, as a result of the opinion expressed by the rapporteur, supported by the representative of the Government, I withdraw the amendments at my first signature.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u221	Colleagues Senators, it being understood that the Parliamentary Committee for the General Address and Supervision of Radio Services was convened at 2 p.m. and that the Commissions should take account of the work of the Assembly, exceptionally suspending the sitting until 3.50 p.m. and I shall notify it in order to enable the senators to arrive in the Chamber. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 3.39 p.m. and resumed at 3.50 p.m.) Let's resume our work. Amendments 3,200, 3,301 and 3,202 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.1, which is identical to Amendment 3.204. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.1, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini, identical to amendment 3,204, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 3,203 and 3,205 have been withdrawn. A proposal for a rewording has been made on Amendment 3.3. I would ask the first signatory, Senator Verducci, whether he intends to accept this proposal. As the silent party agrees, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.3 (text 2), tabled by Senator Verducci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. CIOFFI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.5, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 3,206 to 3,113 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.14, which is essentially the same as Amendment 3.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u222	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u223	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u224	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Beyond the remarks I made earlier, I would like to point out that Amendment 3,214 is also perfectly identical to Amendments 2,783 and 2,784 and subsequent Amendment 3,269. I therefore ask you, Mr President, to put aside these amendments and deal with them together with the others.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u225	I think they should be considered together with the amendment you signed, Senator D'Alì, and the others you mentioned, and I therefore have the provision, to examine them during the examination of Article 2. The same is true of the amendments which I will subsequently indicate, namely Amendments 3,269 and 3,270, at the first signature of Senator Scibona. Thank you for the report, Senator D'Alì. Amendments 3.215, 3.216 and 3.217 have been withdrawn. Does Senator Cioffi accept the rapporteur's proposal for rewording Amendment 3,218? CIOFFI (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.218 (text 2), tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,219, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. [[The vote will be taken at the next voting time. Senator Ciampolillo points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator Ciampollo, have you found any pianists? You are kept watch: if one now insists he is relapsed. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u226	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u227	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u228	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). President, Senator Di Biagio has just removed the ballot box of Senator Queste De Poli, which is among those who are voting. De Poli isn't here, though. At this time, the Commissioner is not in the Chamber, but he is voting through a paper ball. It is a shame: that is the only reason why the Commissioner should resign! And punctually it is a shame that you, like President Grasso, do not allow me to be pictured in the video: you do it on purpose! Then take action against the Quaestors, because since the resumption of the sitting - and I ask you again for the video, President: thank you - all the votes that have been taken by the Commissioner De Poli have been taken in his absence and in his place he has voted for a paper ball. It is a disgrace and I ask the Commissioner to resign in this Chamber! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u229	Let us move on to Amendment 3,221, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As the authors ask for the vote, I ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.221, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u230	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u231	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u232	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would also like to make a comment on Amendment 3.7, which has perhaps been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u233	It has been put aside and will be examined, when we move on to Article 2, together with that of the rapporteur. Amendment 3.222 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,223 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.9 and 3.224 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.8, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini, identical to Amendments 3,225, tabled by Senator Scibona and other Senators, and 3,226, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.227 to 3.231 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.232 tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.233 to 3.236 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.237.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u234	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u235	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u236	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we have also had a debate on this amendment in the 5th Commission. It is truly unique the claim to keep RAI as a public company, however, freeing it from the obligations of other public companies, according to some conveniences. In this case, RAI is to be deprived of the obligation to celebrate public evidence competitions for the marketing of its productions and to allow private negotiation or direct sale to other broadcasters or to other distribution circuits. I believe that if the Government, this majority and the House reaffirm the publicistic nature of the RAI, it must be applied in everything. You can not have - I apologize the expression - the full barrel and the drunken wife: either you are a public company or you are a private company. If we privatise the RAI, the RAI will have the opportunity to sell its products by private negotiation, direct contract or as best it believes, being a private company like all the others. But if RAI produces under a public company regime, among other things also taking advantage of the contribution of citizens through the payment of the fee, then it must be subjected, also for the sale and marketing - as the text of the speakers says - of its products also artistic, to the rules that every other public company follows celebrating normal competitions. On the other hand, I do not understand why this should not happen. I see with danger the possibility of evading the procedures of public evidence in the marketing of products, especially they are mainly sold abroad, not being broadcast on the national territory by RAI, Italian television. I would not like to go over issues that have affected the news in recent years for other companies. But this possibility lends itself, according to the majority and some parts of the judiciary, also to the possibility of creating black funds - I call them that - because they are not regulated by a public evidence contest. Therefore, I would like to invite the rapporteurs, but above all the majority, to reflect: we cannot allow derogations, if RAI is a public company, to some of its activities with regard to compliance with the evidence procedures. I repeat that, if the RAI is to be fully privatised, it will be privatised, as a referendum voted by the Italian people had indicated a few years ago and that it has been adequately disregarded. Unfortunately, when it suits, they apply, when it is not convenient to neglect.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u237	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u238	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u239	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make a clear point of conscience, which I would like to ask to remain in the proceedings. I would ask you, pursuant to Rule 118 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, to cancel all votes, starting with those taken at the beginning of the sitting until that of Amendment 3.19. We have, in fact, found in the above-mentioned votes - and for this reason I ask you to immediately acquire the videos of the sitting - that is probably inserted into the hole of the voting mechanism of Senator De Poli a device that allows the quaestor to vote when he is absent. I do not know whether this constitutes a erotic damage or anything else, but I ask you to cancel all the votes, and the videos themselves can clarify what the problem is in this particular case. Therefore, I would kindly ask you, once and for all, to take action to ensure that this practice is finally eliminated and to take appropriate action.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u240	Senator Santangelo, the President, found an irregularity, can cancel a vote immediately after the vote. When his colleague Cotti was also checked, the card was not present in the hole of the voting mechanism and the object, in the absence of a card, does not produce any effect. The annulment of previous votes is not a matter for me. SANTANGELO (M5S). There's the video. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I repeat that the annulment of the votes can be done immediately after the vote. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let us point this out in the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo is very punctual in his reports, to the point that the irregular act is also prevented. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 3.237 tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.238 to 3.241 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.242, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.243 to 3.252 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,253 tabled by Senator Gibiino, identical to Amendment 3,254, tabled by Senator Di Giacomo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.255 to 3.266 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,267 tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). A proposal for a rewording has been made on Amendment 3.268. I would ask the presenters whether they intend to accept it. AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, could we put aside the amendment? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Actually, it's about paragraph 1 and, therefore, we should really stop, Senator. On the other hand, it seems to me that the reformulation proposal is correct. AIROLA (M5S). All right, we'll take it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.268 (text 2), tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.269 and 3.270 have been set aside. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 3.271 is impervious. Amendment 3.274 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 3.272, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. CIOFFI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.272, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.273, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,275 tabled by Senators Pepe and De Pin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3,276, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. PEPE (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,276 tabled by Senators Pepe and De Pin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u241	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u242	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u243	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, please note that at the previous vote, and not at this vote, the whole Group voted in a negative way. In addition, I would ask you, if possible, for an organizational matter of voting on the amendments, to be able to change places in the ranks between Senator Cioffi and another senator in the front row. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you want to go to the commission stand, you can vote from that station. CASTALDI (M5S). I wanted to know if it was possible to do that electronically. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, otherwise we'd be here for 15 days. The position at the Commission's desk is free, if you like, alongside the rapporteur. (Senator Cioffi reaches the bench of the Commissions).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u244	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u245	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u246	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to correct the last vote, which I wrongly voted against.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u247	We take note of that. Let us move on to Amendment 3,277, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. PEPE (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,277 tabled by Senators Pepe and De Pin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3,278, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. PEPE (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u248	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u249	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u250	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, I often disagree with the Group, but today I am 100% in agreement. If there is a different vote, this is the result of error.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u251	We welcome this realignment with the Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the simultaneous vote of amendment 3.278, tabled by Senators Pepe and De Pin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,279 tabled by Senators Pepe and De Pin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,280 tabled by Senators Pepe and De Pin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3,281, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. PEPE (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,281, tabled by Senators Pepe and De Pin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.282, tabled by Senators Pepe and De Pin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.283 tabled by Senators Pepe and De Pin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Cervellini, do you insist on the order of business vote G3.100? CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda of the G3.100, presented by Senator Cervellini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Colleagues, considering that the proposed amendments should refer to Article 2, we can proceed to the vote on Article 3. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 3 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.0,200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.0.200, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.0.201, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u252	Mr President, I hope that there may still be a conversation in this House with the Government and the rapporteurs. We find the issue of delegation to both Article 4 and Article 5 and it is extremely sensitive, in the sense that the real and real object of the draft law is the reform not of RAI but of its governance, as we will see more precisely in Article 2. Two articles, 4 and 5, which contain both delegations, were added to the text in some way. The delegation on Article 4 essentially concerns the reform of the canon and on this point we have, also in the Commission, stressed in some way the excess represented by the inclusion of this topic in the reform of governance. That there is a need for a modification of the current system, even because of the high level of evasion, seems to me a shared and consolidated fact. But it could be quietly made subject to another provision or inserted within another more punctual, and not in a specific delegation law to the Government. That is the perplexity that we have and which has led me to be the first signatory to this amendment, which is deleted from the whole article. This is an issue that I also put to the attention of the Government, taking into account - and I conclude - an aspect that we have already emphasized during other delegated laws. In our view, at least in the initial drafting - although I agree with the Commission's work on improving the text - there is an excess of generality. Here we do not identify an alternative or replacement system of the current, but it is a delegation that leaves much room for interpretation. From this point of view, we would have preferred a more precise measure in the form of a decree-law or specific amendment on another measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u253	Mr President, that of delegations is one of the central issues of this debate. We have raised the problem of the relationship between the CEO and the Council, on which some changes have been made in the Commission, while we will discuss the others later. This article contains the delegation on the canon. Of course, we believe that the canon, although unpopular and criticized, has its own logic in supporting the public service. And we think that there is also a balance of system. I say this because some people think that the fee, which finances the RAI at 50% and which allows for less commercial crowding of RAI, can serve to safeguard the aspirations or market spaces of commercial television. In fact, the biggest supporters of the canon in the information system are the newspapers, which then have various orientations. I am not saying that many people are more oriented than others, but I could also do so. Therefore, the fee also has the function of maintaining a balance in support for the public service and in the information system where, moreover, newspapers that carry out a fundamental cultural and information function live a phase of great crisis for the competition of the network and for the looting of the online contents, that are then not paid and, therefore, create a difficulty for the publishing companies. And if these companies become impoverished, they will not produce content, and the quality of online information is likely to be worse and worse because it is not produced by real publishing centers. The question of the canon is, therefore, important and complex. Then, proposing to abolish the canon is very easy and is a source of easy popularity. And I think this topic will come back later. Moreover, the real alternative to the fee would be a total privatisation of the RAI, which in this debate some of the amendments propose and which - I would like to remind you - is already provided for by the current rules, which allow for the transfer of branches of the Company or its transformation into a listed holding company. This could yield percentages that would remain by public majority, but that are now being partially privatised, as is happening for Poste, or as happened in the past for Enel or for ENI, who have public control, although minority, but the reference shareholder remains the Treasury, i.e. the State. These routes will also be possible in the future for RAI and will then put the theme of the canon in a different perspective. We understand that the delegation to regulate the canon may also pursue the important objective of charging all and less. I claim to my political side, years ago, the adoption of rules - for example - to exempt citizens above a certain age from payment of the fee, when the use of the public service actually becomes a way of spending time. And for those who receive low pensions, it is also right to be able to enjoy them free of charge. I believe that on the subject of making everyone pay, because there is a large escape, and charging less is found and you can find a sharing. This delegation does not convince us, however, because then we do not know what is being done with it. We would have preferred, therefore, that the delegations, on this and other points, either there were at all or they were limited and had more precise content. It can be said that the delegation serves: there is in fact the vexed question whether to put the fee in the electric bill, because they all receive it and, so in the end it becomes a way to pay. Then there were those who said to abolish the canon and to put it into general taxation: it is a mockery, because it means that then taxes increase by a figure that one tries to disguise in the accumulation of taxes, but in the end people pay the same; therefore, that is a hypothesis of pretend abolition of the canon. A delegation therefore leaves all these questions open. Several governments, even with a centre-right majority, have in the past sought instruments for a fight against the evasion of the canon even pursuing the objective of its lowering, which then is not fair that it pays a higher figure who sets himself up and pays zero who escapes. Here, the delegation frankly does not solve all these problems, but leaves them unsolved. I would also like to say, however, that, in drawing up a deleterious amendment to the article, in addition to a few more details, we have noted that the debate in the Commission has not been pointless. I would like to recall here - although I do not see Senator Rossi present in the Chamber - that with the contribution of various colleagues, much has been discussed about the role of the local broadcasting, so much so that the article has changed its title from the previous draft and has become "Delegate to the Government for the discipline of the financing of the public service and the financing of the local broadcasting." This means that, in the exercise of the delegation, the Government will also have to see how to allocate resources to the local issue, which is experiencing a time of difficulty for the technological transition, the competition of satellites and the multiplication of channels with terrestrial digital, which have sometimes made life difficult, after having known in Italy great seasons. Someone said that there was an excessive number of them, since we had planetary records as to the number of local broadcasters. And not all of them can stand it, because the advertising market is what it is, and in fact a selection took place in the field of larger broadcasters that prevailed over others, which - alas - did not have a dimension to withstand the challenge. I therefore welcome the fact that a reflection has been opened, but we are opposed to an idea of delegation in this area. You see, ladies and gentlemen, of course, we are following the debates more closely than those who are more interested in the various subjects, and therefore we are turning to knowledge or supposed knowledge of the issues. The problems of the canon, of the cost of the public service and of the local broadcasting, however, affect everyone: when you do the statistical surveys and the opinion polls, it turns out that the Carabinieri are the most popular and the canon is the most popular tax, which then amounts to 100 euros, and therefore there are worse ones, as surely those on the house. Then I will propose an amendment on the abolition of delegation, because the issue of the canon, which must certainly be addressed, deserved a detailed public debate as it affects the whole population. Sometimes we discuss laws that concern a segment, a sector, a profession, a field of activity, while the fee concerns all citizens, being essentially a tax matter, a tax of purpose. Moreover, we discussed this when the current government removed 150 million euros from RAI and it was said that it could not do so because it was a tax of purpose. As you can see, the matter is delicate, so it is a mistake to treat it with a proxy. That is why we call for the deletion of Article 4, which deals with a fair subject, but which should be detailed and not delegated too indefinitely. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u254	Mr President, we too have tabled a deleterious amendment to Article 4, because - as we have also pointed out in the preliminary question of constitutionality - in our opinion the delegation contained in it has no precise criteria and retains its vagueness, despite a particularly sensitive and important subject which deserved, instead, to be excluded from the measure. In fact, as I have happened to repeat with a certain frequency, the text bears a wrong title, because it concerns exclusively governance and not - as it has been pompously titled - the reform of RAI, so much so that of the most important issues concerning the mission of the public service - is the central theme if you really want to make a serious reform - it does not talk about it, but bypasses it, and reduces it to some principle, on agendas. To the limit, therefore, they must be dealt with by another measure. In our opinion, already in the broad delegation that is given is contained a fundamental vice, because the issue of the canon also concerns the financing of the local broadcasting, which is also a very sensitive issue. Above all, the matter of the canon must, if necessary, be treated expressly, not with generic indications, but with a structure that formulated proposals voted by the Senate. And in the subsequent amendments we will go even further on the substance of our proposal. The issue of the canon has always been the subject of discussion and also gives the sign of different conceptions and projects on the RAI. Many amendments have been tabled proposing the abolition of the tax rate; others, like ours, make the alternative proposal, to measure it to income, thus providing for progressiveness, since it is a tax. However, the issue of the canon - in our opinion - had to be dealt with with with the true mission of the public service and did not deserve a delegation, in fact very generic and without clear and determined principles and objectives. It is, that is, a watershed also compared to what must be the future itself or the idea itself about the future of public service and RAI. Moreover, the fee is considered an obnoxious tax and there is a very high level of evasion. Therefore, it deserved an in-depth debate, which I hope we will continue with, and put forward the other amendments. All this tells us that there is a problem. If we compare the fee to the subscription costs of other pay-TVs, it seems to be almost a reduced cost. Yet, it is a tax not loved by citizens and, therefore, it had to be changed again and widely, linking it - as we propose - to income. At the same time, however, it was necessary to associate the users in representation, so much so that we had made a very precise proposal that included, on the board of directors, as well as a representative of the workers, one of the users. Another hypothesis, which you rejected earlier, was to put users' representatives in order with the payment of the fee within the guarantee board. This is an absolutely non-trivial issue and I am quite sorry that at this point, being the subject of a delegation within this article, it is left in its vagueness. Yet, it is one of the issues that deserved to be addressed in a genuine and serious reform of the RAI, or to be well discussed within Article 4 with much more binding, clear and precise delegation criteria and with an indication of the objectives. That is why we think that we should choose between the two. In this particular case, in the face of such a general delegation, I think it is better to delete the article.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u255	Mr President, many of the remarks just made by Senator De Petris allow me to frame just and specifically some of the amendments we have tabled to this article. We are faced with the umpteenth delegation that deserves a very precise, binding and specific discussion on some parts that have instead opted to expunge, to address them in other aspects and in other legislative activities. In this same article the discipline for the financing of public service and local broadcasting is recalled. We pay great attention to the local broadcasting, but we do not believe this is the place where the Government can decide to make a quick and fury measure, which only identifies in the governance of RAI its perimeter of intervention and then addresses a topic concerning a situation in some ways dramatic and not worthy of a civil country. I am referring to the field of information, the publishing of printed paper, electronics, radio and television, which deserves, despite the many proclamations and commitments, a comparison, an activity and a corresponding legislative production. If this is to be the case, we think it would be better to delete the article, as we propose in our amendment. But with a view to reducing at least the damage, if we have to go to a form of lawmaking, then we begin to establish certain criteria, which must be - as we say above all in Amendments 4,209 and 4,272 - fairness and certainty. We are convinced that the public service needs certainties in terms of resources and cannot be left to the good will - and therefore to the blackmail - of power, of the Commission. When it comes to these issues, other events are often referred to in which the Commission must call for livelihood resources. No, we want to put the public service on our own and protect it. At the same time, however, we must respect fairness because the famous tax of purpose, seeing among the various experiences of European countries what it can be, must have its proportionality, precisely because it is a tax of purpose that risks seeing the highest levels of morosity. There is a risk that, being indistinguished, you will pay "x" regardless of the financial conditions of the citizens. So, I think we need to start right there. It is obvious that it is difficult with the instrument of delegation, because the criteria, parameters, percentages and ranges within which different measures and different tax weights are matched are not indifferent. Therefore, the instrument of delegation, on this very subject, is absolutely inadequate. The arranged combination makes us say this, but at least let us not predict them in such general terms with the usual agenda. The government is given a precise statement by the Senate Chamber which says that if there is to be - and there must be - a levy it must be absolutely proportionate to the financial conditions of the population. Otherwise we think of facing a problem and solving it - I am talking about giving certainty to the public service - but instead we increase evasion because there is no correspondence and sharing.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u256	Mr President, before explaining the amendment we tabled with Senator Tocci, I would like to ask the presenters of Amendment 4.2 and subsequent identical to add my signature, because I have convinced myself that a reform of governance cannot contain two such broad delegations to the Government on a fundamental issue such as resources. Of course, those who control RAI's resources control RAI. There is an impact of delegation on all decisions of the Constitutional Court on public service. I'm not gonna make it long, but it's a big deal. The amendment by Senators Mineo and Tocci 4.214 is to reduce the damage, in the sense that it asks that, if it should be delegated, RAI resources be certain. Don't come to anyone's head to rule the RAI by tightening the strings of the stock exchange according to political conveniences. And above all one denounces a contradiction that had been touched, but not faced by the intervention of Senator Gasparri, and, that is, with this law asks RAI to do more. It is asked, in essence, to use the resources also for the local broadcasting and no additional resources are expected. This is a mechanism that puts even more the public service concessionary company in the hands of the Government. This is the sense of reducing the damage of amendment 4.214. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u257	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 4.16 and 4.255, both by Senator Airola. There is one subject on which perhaps the representative of the Government will speak, which we are very interested in and on which - I would like to remind you - a great deal of work has been done in the Commission. I am referring to the delegation, especially as regards the fee. I would like to call on Senator Cervellini to reformulate amendment 4.209, because we believe that taking into account a criterion of progressiveness in the general taxation for the payment of the fee is an absolutely acceptable principle. The proposal is therefore to reformulate the amendment by removing the part concerning the Authority for Communications Guarantees and maintaining the criterion of progressive payment of the fee, which I believe is an element of equity. I repeat, therefore, that my proposal is to reformulate the text of the amendment taking into account the part concerning the criteria of progressiveness in general taxation for the payment of the fee.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u258	Senator Ranucci, I would not like to disappoint either you or Senator Cervellini, but on Amendment 4,209 the Budget Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As a result of the possible rewording, the new text should therefore be submitted to the Budget Commission for consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u259	Mr President, my proposal is one way of trying to get back to this issue. We would like to save this criterion, which could be introduced in Amendment 4.209. I should like to ask you whether you can leave this issue unanswered.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u260	Senator Ranucci, this amendment is entirely a replacement for Article 4. After that, no other amendments would be voted on.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u261	RANUCCI, rapporteur. The reformulation would cover only two lines. With regard to Amendment 4,274 it seems to me that it is going in that direction because we are talking about progressivity in general taxation. If the Government agrees, only these lines could be reworded.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u262	Senator Ranucci, the matter is not whether the Government agrees or not; the fact is that both on Amendment 4.209 and on Amendment 4.274 the Budget Commission voted against. And then, while I understand the criterion of the progressiveness that is being introduced, I believe that, regardless of what the Government can, it will be the Budget Commission that will ask us whether, at the end of the fair, the revenues are the same as before or less. RANUCCI, rapporteur. The formula "A parity of revenue" could be added. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would suggest using Amendment 4,274. Perhaps it would be a simpler way. RANUCCI, rapporteur. That's right.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u263	Mr President, I would like to speak on this subject, and I would like to draw attention to a request made by the groups to the Government in the debate in the Commission. The solicitation was first made by Senator Fornaro and then resumed by representatives of all the Groups. I also take the floor to correct some of the inaccuracies I have heard about the delegation we are voting on. The delegation shall concern the determination of a method of payment of the fee linked to the public service. In the context of the debate in the Commission - colleagues from all the groups involved can acknowledge this - we have already addressed the point that I have now heard emerge. It is okay if it is a job that determines a way of identifying certain resources, eliminating evasion and finding a fair way of contributing, provided that - this is the result of the debate in the Commission, which the Government has accepted - some principles are not touched. When it is said that the autonomy and independence of RAI and public service must be safeguarded, it is clear that there is a very precise scope for the exercise of delegation. Some of the assumptions I have heard are in fact incompatible with this principle, which has been accepted and which safeguards precisely autonomy and independence. When we talk about the certainty of adequate resources, there is obviously a reversal in criticism. Our intention is to eliminate evasion, which reduces the resources to be allocated to the public service; I believe that this is a point that we all agree with. It is said that there is an intention to decrease. We do not want to do as in England with the BBC, since this is a frequently used reference; there is no such intention. We simply want to face a node - as Senator Gasparri has recalled - that Governments of various colors have tried to face: to make this contribution, for its modalities, the most effective and fair possible respect to the purpose that must have, that is to guarantee the independence and financial autonomy of RAI and the certainty of resources, ensuring fairness. Compared to this, the Commission has also been urged to address the issue of private broadcasting, which has no reference to the public service and the issue of the canon, but which also receives a level of contribution from the State; the latter recognizes the value of pluralism from local broadcasting. We all know how many local broadcasters are interested in senators and Members in order to be able to make a contribution that will enable them to survive. We believe it's time to try to tackle this issue without confusing roles and organically. We have also accepted the strengthened path of relations with Parliament. I understand the solicitation coming from SEL. I would like to return to the rapporteur's work, but if a clear call is made to the principle of equal contributions to the fee, on a politically clear agenda, I believe that this is the main road, without looking now for a road that can create more problems than it solves. I now announce that the Government, as I said, has fully met the demands of the Groups - those of Senator Fornaro in general discussion and those of many other colleagues for whom I apologise if I do not remember the name - and that even on the subsequent delegation the rapporteur will present, through a proposal for reformulation, an initiative aimed at clarifying and delimiting its scope, bringing it much closer to what was the original proposal of the Government. The rest is in accordance with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u264	I believe that the opposite view expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution cannot be changed. Senator Sangalli? Sangalli (PD). Yes, Mr President, the 5th Commission's opinion under Article 81 of the Constitution remains the opposite. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I don't want to get in the way of anyone, but I remember, above all to myself, what Article 53 of the Constitution states, according to which: The tax system is informed of progressiveness criteria. In the specific case, amendment 4.274 provides for the inclusion in paragraph 1 of Article 4, after point (d), of the following: "d-bis) progressiveness in general taxation". I believe that this is also one of the reasons for the opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u265	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u266	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u267	Sangalli (PD). Excuse me, Mr President, allow me just one minute to say that the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, which, as you know, provides for the compulsory balance of the budget and the balance between revenue and expenditure in the current year. Any other study you want to make produces a modification of the tax legislation: if the progressiveness is on the income, the rent becomes in fact an income tax and this does not give me any guarantee, to have the same amount of income. That is why the contrary opinion expressed in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution is confirmed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u268	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u269	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u270	Colleagues, I allow you to unravel all the problems now, but then we move on to the vote. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to be able to put aside the amendments to Article 4 in order to try to find, both with regard to the problems of delegation and in particular with regard to the issue that we are now dealing with, a wording which allows us to include in some way an indication and a criterion, because we are talking about delegation. The agenda is something else. For this reason, I would ask the rapporteur to take account of the provision of the article, also in order to resolve two other issues concerning the certainty of resources and a more appropriate arrangement of the scope of the delegation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, these are clauses that would lead to the blockade.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u271	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u272	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u273	RANUCCI, rapporteur. Mr President, we have tried to understand, but it seems to me that the same speech by Senator Sangalli makes us unable to proceed. So, in order not to give an opinion against a principle that we do agree with, I would ask that the amendment be turned into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u274	I would remind everyone, with the greatest willingness, that this measure can be harmonised because we have deadlines to meet: I do not want to achieve harmonisation, but I believe that we still have about 600 amendments to vote on.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u275	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u276	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u277	MUCCHETTI (PD). Mr President, I will be very quick. This delegation does not convince me and I would hope that the government would withdraw it. The fee is by far the main source of funding for RAI, not only in the face of regulation, but also the practical results of RAI's advertising collection, which is declining dramatically and which has even been far exceeded by Google's collection, out of any regulation. Therefore, to intervene on this matter and to determine whether or not we can talk about taxation - I do not repeat the impeccable arguments of my colleague Mr Sangalli - wanting, for example, to introduce progressiveness, it does not seem to me that it is a matter of legislative decree: it seems to me rather a matter of intervention by the legislator, therefore of Parliament in its fullness, in a positive and fruitful relationship with the legislative initiative also of the Government, but not in this way.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u278	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u279	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u280	Mr Fornaro (PD). I would like to thank Mr Giacomelli and the President for the time that he has given us, but from the very short debate that has emerged today, I believe that there is room to find a rewording that allows us to take these comments into account. I therefore feel like repeating my colleague De Petris' request for a provision, otherwise it is clear that what the Undersecretary Giacomelli says has a value, but also for past experiences, what matters is what is written in the acts and, from this point of view, the generic character contained in the delegation in my way of seeing continues to remain. If there is no provision, I do not accept the call for the withdrawal of amendment 4.2 and I shall vote, in dissent from the Group, for the deletion of Article 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u281	It seems to me that Mr Sangalli's reasons are impeccable, because that is the case, and the rapporteur has expressed an opinion contrary to the provision. So when we get to the point, I will ask the presenters if they want to accept the request for a change to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u282	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u283	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u284	AIROLA (M5S). The debate is full-time: Article 4 should be deleted for the reason that we do not know how much money we will need for an incisive reform of the RAI, which will have to do governance, to determine which we are voting on the bill. First we should have defined the mission, that is, what the public service must be, then the proper governance to achieve that mission and those goals and finally decide how and how much money it takes to achieve all this. In this sense, the article is out of place in this debate, because we should do other things first. I would also add that, frankly, of a government that has already removed 150 million euros from RAI, in an unconstitutional way, as many constitutionalists have acknowledged, I do not trust. I do not trust him with a delegation, even with the assurances of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government present here. In fact, tomorrow Renzi can come out and say: Well, gentlemen, we now take EUR 500 million off RAI for this reason, or let's tie it to general taxation by making a mustache of the small rule that would give it the obligation to maintain the independence of the public service, which is then the core of this discussion. As the president of RAI Tarantola recalled, he looked at the influence of parties and politics, but also looked at the influence and possible mishandling of economic powers. So, for this reason, we do not think we should be discussing this matter now in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u285	I would like to ask those Members who have tabled amendments on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution if they wish to ask for it to be voted on. I note that Senators Crosio, Minzolini, Stucchi, Cervellini, Cioffi, Malan, Pepe, Airola and De Petris intend to insist on voting on their amendments. Amendments 4,200 and 4,201 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.2, which is identical to Amendments 4.3, 4.4, 4.202 and 4.203. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.2, tabled by Senator Fornaro and other senators, identical to amendments 4.3, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini, 4.4, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators, 4.202, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia, and 4.203, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, M5S, LN-Aut, Mixed-SEL, Mixed-MovX and Mixed-AEcT Groups.]] The remaining amendments and agendas are therefore not included. I would remind you that Amendments 4.204, 4.212, 4.218, 4.219, 4.231, 4.234, 4.235, 4.236, 4.238, 4.252, 4.269, 4.271, 4.276, 4.297, 4.305, 4.307, 4.312, 4.314, 4.316, 4.318, 4.319, 4.320, 4.323 and 4.325 have been withdrawn. Colleagues, in order to assess the impact and possible effects of this vote, I shall briefly suspend the sitting. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If you do that, I won't suspend you! (The sitting was suspended at 5 p.m. and resumed at 5.12 p.m.) I would like to inform you that the Presidency has assessed the possible effects of the deletion of Article 4 and has verified that it is possible to proceed with the examination of the measure. (Senator Crosio asks to speak.) Senator Crosio, before I give you the floor, I would like to know what you intend to do with Amendment 4.0,200, which I believe can also be withdrawn at this point. Can I consider it withdrawn? CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I welcome the request to turn it into an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There is no such proposal, Senator. The amendment cannot be accepted in view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. Are you going to ask for the order of business?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u286	It appeared to me that the contrary opinion of the 5th Commission concerned 4.0.201.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u287	No, that is unacceptable CROSIO (LN-Aut). At this point I would ask for amendment 4.0,200 to be changed to the agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the rapporteur, Mr Ranucci, to comment on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u288	Mr President, I am against this. I do not think it is appropriate to turn an amendment to Rule 4 into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u289	Senator Crosio, do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u290	No, Mr President, I shall withdraw it and at this point I would like to speak on the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u291	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u292	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would particularly like to thank you for your patience. I just want to stress one thing. I believe that what happened just now, with that vote, is very significant. I also say this with a sort of detachment from this provision, a detachment that we have had from the beginning, even physically, because in fact it does not belong to us. I would merely point out that politically, these days - I am speaking on behalf of my Group - oppositions have shown great willingness to cooperate: we have withdrawn amendments and we have drawn up agendas, in short we have been very cooperative. The problem, Mr President, was not born of oppositions, who do their work, but probably of those within the parties that support this Government still has a shred of modesty on certain issues and does not want to submit to the Diktats who come from above, who advise - indeed require - to do also what humanly a senator may not want to do. In conclusion, Mr President, I note that with this measure it is as if we were at the Olympics: we are about to make a hundred metres flat and we realize that we have lost a string. One thing is certain: we will arrive last. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u293	You can always use Velcro, Senator Crosio.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u294	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u295	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u296	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. I would ask the House to consider the examination of this draft law, also on the basis of what happened this afternoon in the RAI Supervisory Committee. As many of you know, the Democratic Party came up with a proposal for a vote next week, Tuesday or Wednesday, for the appointment of the Board of Directors of RAI under the Gasparri Act. I think that, at this point, we really need to invite everyone to stop for a moment and decide what we want, especially what the majority wants. Parliament is being humiliated, because every time we get to a certain point in the work, even fruitful (I repeat, that with the rapporteur and the Undersecretary we have also had fruitful exchanges, despite the text we do not like, and we have managed to have a dialogue), everything collapses because from the top comes the diktat that we have to do in a certain way; with this, I repeat, humiliating Parliament, but also the same majority, as well as the oppositions. Let's decide. Do we want to finish the examination of this bill and vote on the Board of Directors in September, giving adequate time for everyone? I'm talking about biological and physiological times, not about who knows what. Let us be clear: we are discussing governance reform and on Tuesday we are voting on the new board of directors, which could be done, as we have all asked, on the first week of September, on the return, having the opportunity to examine the profiles and characteristics of those who will go to do a fundamental job: reforming RAI, making it competitive for the future. This board of directors - I remind everyone - will last three years. Then, either the full barrel or the drunken wife! You can't have both. If you decide that you do this reform it must be said that anyway it is a dead track, evidently, if then Renzi makes these choices. In fact, it is clear that all this will remain only the superpowers of the managing director who will pass to the general manager, because all the new system will come into force in three years. This law will be liable even to be changed or never even to be fulfilled. Let's stop for a second. We understand if we want to reflect calmly on this delegation, and then we postpone the appointment of the Board of Directors of RAI at least after the summer break. Or, decide (because you have decided) that Tuesday we vote for the board of directors, and then we do not waste time on this measure. And so you save yourself a lot of bad figures.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u297	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u298	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u299	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the redundant prosopopea with which the reform of the RAI was presented has broken down on one of the fundamental issues, the one contained in Article 4 of the delegation on a crucial point. And if the majority really had the idea of a serious reform, it would have had to commit Parliament to a debate on the public service mission. It is since yesterday, and I say it quietly, that we pose a question, after the novelty of Padoan's letter on the appointment of the board of directors with the old rules of the Gasparri law. The RAI Supervisory Committee today voted even on the day when these appointments will have to be made. And what has happened has happened: all of Article 4 has been deleted, because the House is sovereign. Honestly, then, I would like to understand what we are doing because, on the one hand, there is a bicameral Commission which, by majority, decides to move forward to rename the board of directors. On the other hand, we are proceeding, with everything that has happened, that is, a clear indication of the House that it has said that it does not want to give delegations to the Government. The House wants to discuss the crucial issue of resources, and also the independence of RAI and public service, and wants to discuss the canon. Here, however, one still does not understand what government and majority want to do. Frankly, I can't understand if it's a stitch or if it's just the usual evidence of strength. I don't understand what we're doing, honestly. We had asked to have more calm times, since we are getting ready to do something else. You, Mr President, also attended the joint meeting of the Conference of House and Senate Leaders and you know that issues have been raised which will probably also lead to appeals on the appointment of the new Board of Directors. Therefore, we have every right to know what the government and the majority intend to do; or perhaps they want to continue to do this exercise in this House, which I do not know if it is simply an exercise of power, which, as you can see, does not even stand. We are not doing a serious thing and the approximation with which we are dealing with a crucial issue, which concerns public service and RAI, is really impressive. Therefore, we have every right to know at last, and with some seriousness (because we arrived on Thursday), what we intend to do. If you want to continue, then it is established that you wanted to address only the issue of governance and you abandon the issue of the appointment of the board of directors; or, name the board of directors, close this story and go back to September, when perhaps we will discuss overall a true reform of RAI.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u300	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u301	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u302	BONFRISCO (CRI). Mr President, the outcome of this vote tells us a lot about the state of confusion and schizophrenia in which the government is placed (despite the great and excellent efforts of the Undersecretary Giacomelli): if, on the one hand, every time we have the occasion at the Conference of the Leaders, it reminds us that we did not want to make a decree-law or make a tear in the dialogue with Parliament - and we would miss something else, since the decree-laws in this matter have always brought very bad to all - I am here to point out to you the need to reflect, Mr President, perhaps using the pause of determined disconcertation, as you see, from the fact that with a free vote of Parliament, I stress, one of the most pernicious processes contained in this law has been reset. As pointed out also the interventions that preceded me, it is difficult to intervene on the act of force done by the Government yesterday in the RAI Supervisory Commission with the Carabiniere-Motocyclist to say that the discussion was over and it was all closed; indeed, we said that we could not reform the RAI with a law that was called Gasparri, and instead - as we have seen and as it has found well the same Senator Gasparri - Renzi has changed towards and, once again, even if with a bit of delay, he understood that the few good things had done to it by center-right and to him only to copy them. By copying the Gasparri law, it assumes the identity of the attempt to give governance to a company that has, yes, the need for a deep reform, but that must first work. If that is really the objective of the Government and its concern is to achieve governance that can govern the current phase, I would point out to you, Mr President, as I did yesterday in a written communication, which I will repeat in the next few minutes to the President of the Fat Senate, all the rifts from the proper relationship with Parliament: that is, while this pretends to legislate, the Government perhaps pretends to govern. You see, Mr President, if that RAI Supervisory Committee, which will have to express its guidelines on future governance by a regular vote on Tuesday, is not regularly constituted, that act will in itself be irregular, if not null in its strength and in its power of law. I would therefore urge you, Mr President, not to pursue the Government in its mental confusion and schizophrenia, but to foresee that on Tuesday, if the RAI Supervisory Committee is not regularly set up, all the acts it will produce will certainly be the subject of an appeal and a dispute and will certainly see our strong, very strong opposition. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]] Yesterday I allowed myself to remember how the Nazarene covenant comes out of the door to go back through the window: here, it seems to me that too many windows are open, so put order and clarify who must be able to carry out their function. The Government has the right to pursue its proposal and Parliament has the duty to support a process which, even if it is a matter of regular respect between majority and opposition, is a matter of regularity. I would therefore ask you to be an interpreter to President Grasso so that, by tomorrow, if it is true that the Government must have the right to govern, that RAI Supervisory Board will be established regularly. [[Applause from the CRI Group and Senators Bignami and Crimes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u303	We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 5, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u304	Mr President, in the case of Article 5, the speech we have made in Article 4 is worth a little while. Here too, we are talking about a delegation which puts its hands on the single text, on which, on the other hand, it would be appropriate to work at parliamentary level, and that is why we, in this case too, are putting ourselves more or less in the same way. We cannot do hours and hours of discussion, vote, relate with a majority and government, establish contact points and then tell the government to reorder the single text on its own. That is why I suggested that we stop just now on the order of business, because it is not said that in the next votes we are not once again in a moment of confusion for the majority. It would therefore be appropriate to begin to put your feet on the ground, to understand that the work we are doing, even enriched by absolutely profitable relationships for the evolution of the text, is actually leading to a dead track that will see this law come into operation after all the strategic choices for RAI, choices that will last for three years. This is the advice that I can give, in the light of both the tight time you have foreseen for this debate, which must end tomorrow morning, but above all for the decision dropped from above to appoint the board of directors next Tuesday with the Gasparri law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u305	Mr President, on Article 5 we have tabled substantive amendments which I believe are important. However, I reserve the right to speak in an explanation of vote on the individual proposals.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u306	Mr President, as I announced in my speech on Article 4, there is an issue relating to paragraph 2 of Article 5 on which, together with my colleagues, Mr Sonego, Mr Cucchetti, Mr Pegorer, Mr Gotor and Mr Martini, we have tabled a deleterious amendment to paragraph 2. I note that there has been some containment work in the Commission, because the problem was precisely that of Article 4, so I would like to make it quite clear that the above paragraph 2 is being reworded. The current wording of Article 5 (2) (a) reads as follows: "I reorder and simplify the provisions in force also for the purposes of their adaptation, taking into account technological and market developments, without new or increased burdens for public finance." As I had the opportunity to say in the general discussion and as the Undersecretary reassured in his reply (but at this point also in this case paper sings), if he stopped to the words "reorder and simplify the existing provisions" I believe that the problems and doubts that had led to the request for the deletion of paragraph 2 could fail. In other words, I would ask you to return to the title of the article, which reads: "Absence and delegation to the Government for regulatory reorganization" As draftsmen of amendment 5.9, we do not believe that the issues of adaptation, technological and market developments are included in the reform. Here is the heart of the reform of the RAI, which has nothing to do with the reorganization and simplification of the existing provisions. Therefore, if the Government were willing to return to that original wording, I believe that reservations and doubts would be overcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u307	Mr President, I would like to give some advice. What you are learning is that much of the reform is about these two issues: the first is about the delegation on the canon and the second is what we are talking about now. I am convinced that, compared to the debate that has taken place, it would be much more logical to postpone the examination of a reform which continues to be very limited than the problems of the whole sector. This would also make sense of everything that has been done in the Supervisory Committee. I am convinced that right now - on this I disagree with others - RAI needs its own government. The extension has now gone on for two months and therefore it is necessary to give a government to RAI in a short time. For this very reason, however, I believe that at this point it is necessary, since there is no longer that impellence, to give space and breath to a reform that risks being nick, that is to say to arrive as a measure that only concerns governance that, among other things, is carried out with an old law, without addressing the main nodes of the sector. For this reason I ask the Government if it is possible, because the essential fact at this stage is the government of RAI, to postpone in part or to give much more breath to the comparison on the provision of law. It is clear, in fact, that when we find ourselves giving a government to RAI, it will be the moment when we understand, according to the names that will be chosen, the value that will be given, the type of personality that will be chosen, the ability of this Parliament to make a turning point for the Public Service Company. This would help, because on the one hand you would do what some - not me - define a forced force, taking names that - it is what counts - demonstrate that they want to move on and, on the other, would lengthen the times of the reform of the system trying to insert the nerve themes of the public service. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u308	I call for amendment 5.20 to be turned into an agenda, and for amendments 5,750 and 5,265 to be voted in favour. I call on the House to turn Amendments 5,288, 5,312, 5,324 and 5,326 into agendas. I would also ask you to turn Amendment 5,418, which concerns the ban on advertising gambling, by extending this ban to all televisions, because it is not said that RAI should be penalised in this respect. If such advertising is to be prevented, it must be done on all broadcasters. On Senator Crosio's amendment 5,234, I would propose a rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u309	Amendments 5,234 and 5,235 are withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u310	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, there must be a mistake. However, I maintain Amendment 5,234. RANUCCI, rapporteur. I would therefore propose to the proposer the following rewording: Article 5 (2) (a) is replaced as follows: (a) I reorder and simplify the provisions in force, also for the purpose of adapting the tasks of the public service, with regard to the different technological platforms and taking into account the changes that have occurred without new or greater burdens for public finance. The opinion was opposed to all other amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Sangalli, you should consider the reformulation proposed by Senator Ranucci of Amendment 5,234 in terms of financial coverage.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u311	Mr President, I too have a desire to avoid a new misunderstanding in my work. As I said just after the illustration, there was a request to redefine the scope of this delegation by several Groups and by several Senators of majority and opposition colleagues. Now this delegation has started in a much smaller way in the Government's proposal. In the Commission it had an extension that went beyond the proposal of delegation that the Government had made. We have said several times that there is availability to a comparison. We have waited to see the amendments. I do not have the precise numbers and I quote not only for belonging but also for convenience of expression Amendment 5,253. I'm also quoting him to make sure I understand. It basically proposes to the Government to reduce the scope of the delegation to reorder, simplify and update the tasks of the public service, taking into account the technological innovation and convergence of the distribution platforms. In essence, from a delegation that the Commission's work had expanded to the possibility of intervening in the overall Italian radio and television system and in technological innovation, the proposal of several Groups is: let's go back close to the original text. It seems to me that Senator Fornaro himself spoke this way. If I understand correctly and if this is the meaning of the invitation, I confirm availability. The text which the rapporteur has read by rewording one of the amendments goes in this direction: I reorder and simplify in order to adapt the tasks of the public service with regard to the different technological platforms. From this point of view, therefore, without prejudice to the freedom of each member of this branch of Parliament to vote as it considers, if the intercourse makes sense, once again explicit that the demands of the Opposition Groups and the Majority Groups, which for me find a crystallization in the appropriate words of amendment 5.253 - update of the tasks that must in any case guarantee the public service (...) taking into account technological innovation ‐ are welcomed Government, which is willing to revise the delegation to this effect. With the proposal for a rewording tabled by the rapporteur, if accepted by the authors, I believe that there is a point of synthesis as desired. For the rest, the opinion was in accordance with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u312	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u313	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u314	MINEO (PD). Mr President, I welcome with interest the availability of Mr Giacomelli. As far as I am concerned, Amendment 5,253 can be withdrawn and transformed into an agenda. Is that the proposal? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Not exactly. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the possible change to the agenda of amendment 5.253.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u315	I would like to submit to Senator Mineo the proposal for the rewording of Amendment 5,234, tabled by Senator Crosio, which is heading in the desired direction. I would not like to speak against, and I note that the proposed reformulation with regard to amendment 5,234 would change the scope of paragraph 2 (a). We are talking about technological platforms and the amendment tabled by Senator Mineo refers to technological innovation, distribution platforms and the changes that have taken place. I therefore believe that we are moving towards the desired interpretation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u316	Mr President, since the change of amendment 5,253 to the agenda is very good, the Government's opinion goes further than that. The proposal for the rewording of amendment 5,234 tabled by the rapporteur - which reorders and simplifies the existing provisions, including in order to adapt the tasks of the public service, with regard to the different technological platforms and taking into account the changes that have taken place without any new and increased burden on public finance - actually takes exactly the desired direction. Therefore, if the proposed reformulation is approved by the House, we can include this text and directly amend the delegation. There is nothing to worry about if an agenda is to be added as well. I intervened because I wanted to make sure that there were no misunderstandings in this case. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mineo, what is your orientation?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u317	Mr President, I agree. However, rapporteur Ranucci, I propose that we add the following sentence, to which we hold a great deal, as you understand always tending to guarantee the general public service radio and television.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u318	Ladies and gentlemen, we can do this: part of the amendment is absorbed by the new wording of amendment 5,234, while the remaining part is the subject of an agenda for Mr RANUCCI, rapporteur. Exactly. The opinion was in favour. Mr GIACOMELLI, State Secretary for Economic Development. I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u319	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u320	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u321	Mr Fornaro (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur and Mr Giacomelli. The rewording of point (a) (2) of Article 5 referred to in amendments 5.231, 5.232, 5.233 and 5.234, although it does not concern Amendment 5.9, which I have tabled, goes exactly in the direction we set ourselves. As the proposal for a reformulation is fully satisfactory, I therefore withdraw amendment 5.9, both in the deleted version and in the rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u322	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.3, which is identical to Amendments 5.4, 5200 and 5201. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u323	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u324	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u325	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we have reached the amendments referred to Article 5. I would like to speak on Amendment 5.3, which proposes the deletion of Article 5 and which is identical to Amendments 5.4, first signed by Senator Cioffi, 5,200, first signed by Senator Cervellini, 5,201, first signed by Senator Airola, and 5,202, first signed by Senator Crosio. I would like to dwell for a moment on the issue of delegation, because it is a delicate point of the affair, together with the issue of the managing director-general (now there is a law in force that does not provide for a managing director, that there will be when and if this law will be passed). These are the points which we have raised in general debate and on which we reserve the right to speak. With this amendment, we call for the deletion of Article 5 and the delegation; other groups also do the same thing. We will therefore certainly vote in favour of this amendment and then see what happens. I would like to take this opportunity, since there has been a sort of general mini-discussion on the rewording of other amendments relating to delegation, to underline the fact that the rapporteur, using the rewording of other amendments that come forward, has limited the scope of this delegation. I say this because the discussions that we have here are also part of the interpretation of the laws; I draw in particular the attention of the Undersecretary Giacomelli, whom I thank for his speech. While the drafting of Article 5 which we are now examining in this House, coming from the Commission, is talking about reordering and simplifying the existing provisions, also with a view to adapting them, taking into account technological developments, the rewording limits this delegation to the tasks of the public service, with regard to the various technological platforms. Therefore, the delegation is narrower and concerns public service and technological developments. Moreover, the RAI has not so far objectively used to the best the opportunities that new technologies allow in the interaction of television, the Internet, TV on demand and everything that today goes in the technological convergence, that the law in force - I say incidentally - has anticipated creating the integrated system of communication (SIC), that is, the whole of all the various television and journalistic realities. It was contested, but we anticipated what happened later. We therefore call on the House to vote in favour of our deletion of the delegation. In taking up the previous speech, the House has in some way, with transversality and with votes not of all parties, circumscribed this desire of the Government to have delegations and deleted Article 4, with a delegation on the canon. It seems to me that now the Government wisely does not give up the delegation, but limits it to public service and technological evolution, without having a blank delegation for the rewriting of the norms, because here we talk about reordering and simplification. Simplification means that there may be repetitive rules in the single text or that there may be overlaps. The legislation in the field of radio and television goes back to different stages of Italian history, so sometimes there are stratifications. We therefore interpret the debate in this way, Undersecretary Giacomelli: to limit this aspect of the public service of technological evolution in terms of reordering and simplification, not in terms of delegation in white. I also say this to those who spoke earlier. I am referring to the intervention of Senator Mineo, who has joined in some way on this aspect, without wishing to give a blank delegation, which is not there, which is restricted and which would have been in conflict with the role of Parliament and with the will of the House, which has also been expressed a moment ago. In this sense, we confirm the deleterious amendment of the article, but we note that the suppressive will is leading to a dynamic of rewording behind the delegations, restricting them in some way, which seems wise and useful to me. I say this for the sake of clarity, because in the past few weeks an inadequate communication has caused fireflies to pass through the lanterns and has somewhat confused the debate that has taken place in the Commission. Having said that, we confirm that it is always better to abolish this delegation. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u326	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.3, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini, identical to amendments 5.4, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other Senators, 5,200, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other Senators, 5,201, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.202 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5,203 tabled by Senator Gasparri, identical to Amendment 5,204, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5,205 and 5,206 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5207 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.208 to 5.213 have been withdrawn. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.214, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.215 has been withdrawn. I call on the rapporteur, Mr Ranucci, to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5,750, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.16 tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.217 and 5.9 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.10, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini, identical to amendment 5.218, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.219 has been withdrawn. On Amendment 5.20 a proposal for a change to the agenda had been made. Senator Romano, do you accept this proposal? ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G5.220 will not be put to the vote. Amendments 5.221 and 5.225 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.26, tabled by Senator Gasparri, identical to amendment 5.227, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.228, 5.229 and 5.230 have been withdrawn. Colleagues, it seems to me that the rapporteur's proposal for a rewording of amendment 5.234 applies also to amendments 5.231, 5.232 and 5.233, still relating to Article 5 (2) (a). [[Senator Airola's assent notes]] I therefore refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.231 (text 2), tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia, identical to amendments 5.232 (text 2), tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia, 5.233 (text 2), tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia, and 5.234 (text 2), tabled by Senator Crosio and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.235 has been withdrawn. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5,236 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 5,237, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. AIROLA (M5S). We are asking for the vote, as are Amendments 5,238 and 5,240. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). To be honest, colleagues, following the vote on amendments 5,331 (text 2), 5,232 (text 2), 5,223 (text 2) and 5,234 (text 2), point (a) to paragraph 2 has been entirely replaced, so amendments 5,238, 5,240, 5,244 and 5,2552 are foreclosed. Amendment 5.239 and amendments 5.241 to 5.251 have been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the G5.253 agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.254, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.255, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.256, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.257 to 5.261 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.262, tabled by Senator Gasparri, identical to amendment 5.263, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.264 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5,265 tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.268, 5.271, 5.272, 5.273, 5.274, 5.275, 5.276 and 5.284 are therefore excluded. Amendments 5.266, 5.267, 5.269, 5.270 have been withdrawn, as have Amendments 5.277 to 5.283 and Amendments 5.285 to 5.287. Amendment 5,288 proposed a change in the agenda, which the Government has declared itself willing to accept. Senator Scibona, will you withdraw the amendment to turn it into an agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u327	Mr President, as has been said before, it seems to me that the educational value of RAI still has a profound value. I would also have liked a positive opinion on Amendment 5,172, which concerns trade promotions during child planning. From this point of view, however, the educational value of sports practices is certainly a value to be disseminated and, although I would have preferred the amendment to have the favourable opinion of the rapporteur and the Government, I am nevertheless prepared to withdraw it and turn it into an agenda, provided that the subject is taken seriously.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u328	Having been accepted by the Government, the G5.288 agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5,289, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5,290 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5,291, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.292 and 5.293 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 5,294.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u329	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u330	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u331	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, the amendment highlights the information on sports programmes, since RAI has two channels, Raisport 1 and Raisport 2, on which we can see matches of five or six years ago. I wonder who's watching the soccer game five years ago: I don't think anyone. It's a big deal. [[Senator Cuomo's comments.]] For God's sake, you can see them, but I don't see why Italian citizens have to pay 113 euros to watch a match five years ago, watch out on two channels. These aspects of RAI give more the idea of an armchair than of an effective public service. Above all, I remember that the RAI on sport has always played an important role, before the advent of pay TV, the monopolies of Infront and other issues on sports rights, which should be deepened and which are often also the subject of investigations: the last to which I refer was precisely an investigation that concerned numerous suppliers and managers also inside the RAI. It is all contained in the service contract, but I think that, since the service contract has remained in the drawers for a long time (now fortunately it will be confirmed and signed by the Ministry and RAI), at this point it is better to insert all these things in a law, because they have always slipped from the hands of those who were to realize the indications contained in the public service contract.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u332	Senator Airola, I can think of the first usefulness: to give the prosecutors the opportunity to reconstruct how things have gone in the past for football-betting and also to have the evidence available. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 5,294, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators, up to the word 'programmes'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 5,294 and amendments 5,295 to 5,300 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5301 tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5,302 to 5,311 have been withdrawn. On Amendment 5,312 a proposal for a change to the agenda had been made. Senator Crosio, do you accept this proposal? CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr President, and I ask for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G5.312, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.313, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.314, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.315, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.316, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.317, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.318 and 5.319 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,320, tabled by Senator Gasparri, identical to amendment 5,321, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.322 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.323, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On Amendment 5,324 a proposal for a change to the agenda had been put forward. Senator Crosio, do you accept this proposal? CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the G5.324 agenda will not be put to the vote. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 5.325 is impervious. On Amendment 5,326 a proposal for a change to the agenda had been put forward. Senator Airola, do you accept this proposal? AIROLA (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the G5.326 agenda will not be put to the vote. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 5.327 and 5.328 are impervious. Amendments 5.329 and 5.330 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.331, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.332, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u333	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u334	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u335	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask the Government to give reasons for its opinion on Amendment 5.333 (correct text). PRESIDENT. - The debate is On Amendment 5.333 (correct text) there is the opposite opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Then I'll withdraw it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u336	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u337	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u338	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, the amendment in question may have been rejected under Article 81 of the Constitution, but has the 5th Commission taken into account the fact that the Senate pays for the availability of these channels? Because our police officer is informed about this... president. We'll ask the quaestors, however... AIROLA (M5S). I needed to give this information to the Assembly: we pay to have the channels of the Senate and the House on digital terrestrial.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u339	I think so, I don't think it's free, by heart. Amendment 5.334 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 5.335, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators, up to the words "public utility." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 5.335 and amendments 5.336 and 5.337 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 5.338, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators, until the words "work" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 5.338 and amendment 5.339 are therefore not included. Amendment 5,340 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.341 tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.342 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.343, tabled by Senator Gasparri, identical to amendment 5.344, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.345 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.346, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.347 and 5.348 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.349, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5,350 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.351 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 5.352, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u340	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u341	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u342	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we have reached Article 5, to which we were referred this morning to the rapporteur and representative of the Government. (d) includes the German, Ladin, French and Slovenian languages and excludes the Sardinian language. We all know that such discrimination cannot be done against Sardinia and Sardinia; against an ancient language, perhaps the oldest of those protected. We're talking about a neolatin language of direct derivation. We have suffered many colonizations, military and economic-industrial; we have also suffered cultural dominations, and the Sardinian people have emancipated in recent years thanks to the fact that we have a Constitution that protects our prerogatives as a community. We have a special statute, and it is not that we do not do broadcasts even in the Sardinian language, Mr President, and that RAI does not do them. Only that the Sardinians must pay them, on the basis of a miserable convention that is not signed even by the director-general of the state-owned company but by the director of marketing. In fact, transmissions in Sardinian language are considered as an industrial product, as a box of peeled. It is a shame that the blood boils, Mr President. To this very serious and unconstitutional injury we have the duty - and this is a problem of the Government and the majority - to remedy. What are we asking for with this amendment? We ask to be equal among equals. We ask to be equal among equals! This also concerns the conscience of each of us, also the sensitivity of each of us to a community that is all too often discriminated against. I really do not want - but I do - to mention the ways in which Sardinia has been treated, even with respect to natural disasters. But this amendment does not have costs that are not sustainable: it is not that the state budget must be compromised, it is not that public expenditure is increased in a disproportionate way. It can be done, Mr President, and I expect the Government to say so, in order to allow all of us to vote on amendment 5.352 and, therefore, to incorporate, by means of an act of justice, the article that has been proposed in the text that is being voted on. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Uras, I ask you to insist on the vote on amendment 5.352, because there is an opinion contrary to the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. URAS (Misto-SEL). Yes, Mr. President. I cannot understand how he could have received an opinion contrary to Rule 81. I do not know whether it costs the Sardinian language more than the Ladin language, the Slovenian language than the Greek or German language. What is the problem with Article 81? But even someone who wanted to do it on purpose wouldn't do something like this on purpose. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and LN-Aut Groups and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u343	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u344	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u345	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I find it really absurd that we need to write this amendment, which I have signed over the past few days. In this article we have planned for transmissions in German for South Tyrol, in Ladin for Trentino, in Slovenian for Friuli; Sardinian, which is probably the non-Italian language spoken in Italy, I don't know why he stayed out. On sardu sceti est una lingua e cussus chi da cumpreus e da chistionaus seus prus de unu milioni! Po ita da peppeus laxai a fora de sa RAI? [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and Misto-SEL Groups]] I said that Sardinian is also a language and that we who understand and speak it are more than a million! Why should we leave her out of RAI? [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and Misto-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u346	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u347	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u348	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to say that the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of this amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u349	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u350	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u351	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I need an explanation. Here we see opinions contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution of all kinds and of all colors, absolutely inexplicable. Frankly, I would ask the President-in-Office of the Budget Committee this time how he can justify the contrary opinion under Rule 81 on this amendment, if not because there is obviously a deliberate act of discrimination. I therefore ask President Sangalli to explain why we cannot get away with it this time, as always in this House. President Sangalli, please, this time you have to explain how you were able to justify the contrary opinion under Article 81 on amendment 5.352. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator De Petris, before I give the floor to Senator Sangalli, I would like to point out to you that, since Amendment 5.352 provides for one more language than originally intended, it is clear that this entails a greater burden. [[Applause from the PD Group]] DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). It means the others will make savings. We're talking about a proxy here.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u352	Mr President, you have obviously already given the explanation, because for each language that is added, there is also a structure to which the costs correspond. If you will allow me, incidentally, I would like to say that it does not seem to me that the Budget Committee has given the figures, in this and in the other measures. When we were asked for an explanation we gave it, and we have not denied it until now. He asks, he answers. And I have to say that we also respond when we make almost total rewordings, which we would not have to answer in this House. In view of this welcome from the Budget Committee, I now announce that rewordings such as those that have been made before are planned for the meeting of the Commission and not for me to give an opinion under Article 100.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u353	Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.352, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.353 to 5.380 have been withdrawn. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 5.381 is impervious. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.382, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.383.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u354	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u355	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u356	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we feel like the disabled people of Amendment 5.383, because we have discovered that the majority and the Democratic Party are insensitive and, indeed, have a culture of discrimination against the Sardinians. We found out at a vote that didn't cost anything. When you wanted to, in fact, you did. The Commission's budget recommendations are being wasted on this: there is no additional burden. And this is about fusion. It is not that Sardinia is discriminated against, but an antenna has it and therefore the diffusion, as happens for the Italian language programs, can take place with the programs in Sardinian language. There is no additional burden. We have written bad chapters in this Parliament against the Sardinians. We wrote them, Mr President, when President Grasso made the commitment, and all the political groups did the same, to follow the approval of the rules to remedy and compensate for the damage caused by the last flooding in Olbia. And then we got stuck in the Budgetary Committee of the House as President of Boccia. We have also suffered it in the last circumstances, when we have laid the same conditions in the law of stability, and we are subject to it even today, when for some linguistic minorities the provision is extrapolated and a delegation is given. Now, the rule on the European Charter of Minority Languages becomes a useless tool, which is useless to approve, because those who had to satisfy, that is, the secretary of the Democratic Party of Friuli, are already satisfied. This is not the case: I believe that there has been a serious political error today and that there has been a serious injury to a region, to a community and to a population, which will not be forgotten immediately, because it is free and makes no sense, except the face of discrimination, and it has no real reason. It is serious for this reason, because it is not right and there is no motivation, but no one - neither the Government nor the rapporteur - has stood up to say: "We do this because it leads us to ruin sending a couple of transmissions in Sardinian, in the territory of Sardinia." There is no reason and that is the shame: this morning the rapporteur rose to ask: "But is Article 5 coming"? But why? Why make fun of the Sardinians? Why make fun of the region? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] This is an intolerable shame, and it is unacceptable, Mr President, and I would like to stress that. We will vote in favour of this amendment and this is something on which we will write pages every day, because it does not have a single reason or a single justification and it is unacceptable discrimination. There's no time to make her hide or reason to make her forgive.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u357	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u358	Let us not argue now: I agree with everything, but it has nothing to do with the amendment we are talking about. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u359	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). I will save a lot of time, Mr President, by making Senator Uras's words my own and remembering that there are also other Sardinians in this House (in addition to the Senators Uras, Floris and Cotti who have spoken), but they are probably pleased that the outcome of the vote is what we have seen. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u360	I call on Senator Scibona and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 5.383. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.384, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.385 and 5.386 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 5.387, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators, up to the word "cultural." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 5.387 and amendments 5.392 to 5.395 and 5.399 to 5.402 are therefore excluded. Amendments 5.388 to 5.391, 5.396 to 5.398 and 5.403 to 5.409 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.410, tabled by Senator Gasparri, identical to amendment 5.411, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.412 has been withdrawn. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 5.413, 5.414 and 5.415 are impervious. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.416, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.417, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On Amendment 5.418 there is a proposal for a change to the agenda. Senator Crosio, are you welcome?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u361	Mr President, I understand that the rapporteur proposed that the content of amendments 5.418, 5.419 and 5.420 should be placed on a single agenda. If you will allow me, I would like to reflect on this proposal by the rapporteur, which we accept, and I would like to share it with the whole of this House because these three amendments, which seem to be removed from the subject we are dealing with, have a problem which we consider to be very important. In view of the fact that the amendments are perhaps a little excessive, on this agenda we are asking that on all television broadcasts on national territory and on all radios it be prohibited to advertise gambling. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We consider this to be a very important step, as was done at the time for tobacco and as should be done on other issues as well. In fact, I would like to remind the Assembly that in Italy there are 400,000 entertainment devices in over 6,000 clubs, attended by 15 million regular players, including 3 million players at risk of pathological gambling and about 800,000 players already pathological. This problem, which is spreading exponentially in our country, determines an annual health cost to treat people dependent on gambling disease of about 5 or 6 billion euros. This is crazy. At this time when it is difficult to work, we see fathers of the family squandering the little salary they manage to bring home in front of these goddamn machines and I believe that this issue must unite the whole House. I welcome the rapporteur's request, because my amendments were excessive because they only asked the public service to apply this ban; instead, on this agenda, it would be interesting to ask for a commitment to the whole of the radio and television system, in order to definitively prevent the advertising of this infernal machine, which is gambling, which in a civilized country must not be allowed. I therefore ask the whole House to share this agenda because we consider it an important step. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u362	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u363	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u364	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I would like to add my signature. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I see that also Senators Bulgarelli, Rossi Gianluca, Endrizzi and Campanella ask to add their signature. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G5.418 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u365	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u366	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u367	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, advertising is in itself a silent rape of thought. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments]] , because it intervenes where the listener's attention is less ready to accept a message critically. Advertising in children's programmes is not acceptable, nor is advertising for products and services harmful to health. More than fifty years ago we abolished cigarette advertising, today it has become urgent to abolish advertising on gambling. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] For this reason we have presented simple and targeted draft laws, so that at least this aspect which also concerns the culture of a country and civilization is modified. When I say "we" I am not just referring to the 5 Star Movement, but to the many parliamentarians who have signed several legislative proposals to ask for something that Italian citizens would have already decided, something that is demanded by associations that fight for legality and health, that fight for a new and different cultural model. We had already been ready for a year the RAI service contract, which provided for the banning of gambling advertising. It's urgent. Advertising attracts children to play: gambling is forbidden to children under 18 years of age and 51 percent of minors have been gambling in the last year and one third of them hide the amount of money lost from their parents. Among adults we already have almost a million pathological employees and a generation is growing with the idea that the future and the project of life descend from fate and not from their commitment, with the mockery then of a minister who comes to say that young people are dolls. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Liuzzi.]] We're educating them to disengage, not believe in the future. This agenda is therefore absolutely acceptable. Other things we will have to do urgently in this House. The 5 Star Movement will ask that the urgent calendarization in opposition of all the legislative proposals for the abolition of the advertising of gambling, but meanwhile we want to see the commitment of the government that had already spoken favorably but still has not shown us any act. I expect a favourable opinion on this agenda. We support it compactly. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u368	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u369	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u370	DE BIASI (PD). Mr President, there are several draft laws on this issue which I find essential. I have no reservation about the abolition of advertising gambling on television, but knowing that we will also have to talk about online advertising, because the last deaths are for gambling on the web. However, I would ask my colleagues not to give the numbers at random, because otherwise we also naivete extravagant ideas. It is not true, in fact, that five billion is spent on treatment for gambling addiction: perhaps so! Last year's Stability Act allocated 50 million, and not even all the Services against Dependencies (Serd) combined to 200 million or 300 million. In the government's fiscal delegation there were 200 million contributions, today we are at 50 million. It is not true that there are three or four million people who are being treated, it is not even true that there are two: maybe they were being treated, people who are suffering from pathological gambling addiction. I would therefore kindly pray to keep ourselves in the field of rationality, otherwise we tell lies to the people and naivete a fear that has no reason to be. Rather, at the right time, let us be a little more supportive when we ask for resources for services. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u371	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u372	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u373	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I believe that some senators in this House have a short memory, partly because it was on 5 September 2013 when it was adopted in the Senate, almost unanimously, a motion that committed the Government to a 12-month moratorium even on the issue of new licences. There was undersecretary Alberto Giorgetti on that occasion, who resigned, who were then rejected by the then president of the Council of Ministers Letta. Mr President, I am convinced, because I know how things work among people, that this agenda will be adopted by an overwhelming majority. And how could you vote against it? The problem is that we have to be honest with ourselves. Agendas are worth as the toilet paper, because they are not taken into account by the Government and the motions are even less so. There's no point in talking about how much they cost to your health. Senator De Biasi, everything's fine, but when the murder goes through the news, which has a gambling situation behind it, what's the social cost? It is not the question of putting more money on the management of addictions and drug services (Serd). The question is to avoid the spread of gambling in all our cities with machines. This is the situation that has arisen. The government is now cashing in on citizens' shoulders and health and putting their hands in the pockets of citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]] Then, no more approved agendas that then fall into thin air: let us take note of them, take legal measures and approve them. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Government, if it has such desire and interest to intervene for the benefit of its citizens, makes an urgent measure. Don't just promise to reduce taxes and remove these kinds of machines and prove that you don't have collusion with the mafia, which is behind the management of gambling machines. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeon.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u374	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u375	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u376	BULGARRELLI (M5S). I just wanted to remind you that it's not just a matter of public health. Around gambling there are definitely crime and mafias [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] : this is a certainty. Before you talked a lot about tax evasion about paying the RAI fee and don't worry about going to get the money as far as gambling at the mafia is concerned: this is ridiculous. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Simeoni and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u377	I remind everyone that we are doing a reform on RAI. This is a very important subject. I believe that it is not only a matter of assessing the cost to the State of this problem, but also of the cost to families, because there is not only what can be made available by the State.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u378	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u379	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u380	URAS (Misto-SEL). President, you are right; we are doing a reform of the public service radio and television: we are doing the reform of a sort of passport that arrives in all homes and families and is seen in all countries. We are what we are for what we communicate. That is why I intend to sign this initiative, if that is possible. I would like to vote for it and declare the vote in favour of my Group and my party and say to all of us: Senator Candiani is right when he recalls the debates that have taken place in this House. We cannot forget what we say and what we think three weeks earlier. Politics is not only opportunism or instrumentality: it is also truth, sometimes. We must be consistent with what we have said and promised. I'll tell the government. The story about Sardinia that was discussed a moment ago will weigh on you. It is unbecoming that he does not even have a motivation, dear Giancarlo Sangalli: there was not even an accounting motivation, because it is written here that the cover is provided with the subsequent implementing measures of this measure. So there was not even a logical reason from the budgetary point of view. We - as in this case - could have responded to a need and given a representation through the public service of this country more serious than what we also give today, unfortunately, in this Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u381	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u382	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u383	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mrs De Biasi made a point. He was right, I gave the numbers, in the sense that I was wrong to give the number. My colleague, who is always punctual and precise, has guessed. I would also like to remind my colleague that, as you said, I wanted to include online advertising on the agenda and I believe that everyone is satisfied with it. I did not want to start a debate on this issue, but I wanted to share the need to take a step forward on this issue at the moment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We anticipated the financial maneuver.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u384	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u385	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u386	BENCINI (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to point out that, apart from removing advertising on gambling on public television, there is still the fact that wherever you go there is gambling. In fact, there are tobacconists, where there is the possibility of gambling and much more. It would therefore be appropriate to proceed as it has been done for smoking: just as it is illegal to smoke in certain environments, gambling must be made illegal regardless. Let's make gambling illegal, so we won't have the advertising problem anymore.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u387	Colleagues, let's not lose our sense of measure. If we were talking about tobacco reform, we would talk about removing gambling machines from them. [[Applause from the PD Group]] However, since we are talking about advertising on television, we must refer to that and nothing else.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u388	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u389	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u390	IN MAY (CRI). Mr President, I would ask that my signature be signed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u391	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u392	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u393	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, a little clarification. Are the amendments withdrawn by Mr Crosio, signed by the Group as a whole, considered to be an agenda? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Yes, we are talking about amendments 5.418, 5.419 and 5.420.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u394	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u395	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u396	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I rise quickly to reiterate that - you are right - we are talking about governance. In this measure we are inserting other provisions which we have already discussed, which are included in the service contract. Unfortunately, this contract has been lying in a drawer for more than a year. That is why we are struggling to include some provisions in the governance bill.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u397	Colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, I hope in the same enthusiasm the day on which we will have to address the topic here and in the presence of the Minister of Economy, to verify that he follows us in this path.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u398	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u399	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u400	PAGNONCELLI (CRI). Mr President, I ask that I be able to put my signature on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u401	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G5,418 tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 5,421, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u402	Mr President, I absolutely ask that Amendment 5,421 be put to the vote, not least because it does not entail additional costs. The moment a program airs on an average, be it a DVD, rather than a hard drive, there are no additional costs. As for the archives, you can use those of the Provinces that are so closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u403	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u404	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u405	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u406	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, this is a central point because RAI enjoys an immense heritage and a fabulous archive, which is partly valorising and partly losing, given certain conditions in which certain types of technological media, such as film and other magnetic media, are being held back over time. They must therefore be digitized and there is a great deal of work to be done but there is the historical memory of our country. Moreover, if you think of RAI as something that still has to project into the future, we can guarantee a historical memory to young people, that yes, it is true, they are very connected to platforms that are not the TV ones but, in the perspective of a use of these contents, an idea could be to make them available to those who are subscribers on the Internet, as if it were an archive to Netflix, really exterminated, accessible to those who paid the fee. This could be an idea. So this point is fundamental precisely for the identity of the Italian people and of the RAI Italian radio and television.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u407	Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5,421, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 5.422, 5.423, 5.424 and 5.425 are impervious. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.426, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.427, tabled by Senator Gasparri, identical to amendments 5.428, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia, and 5.429, tabled by Senator Crosio and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 5.430, 5.431 and 5.432 are impervious. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.433, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.434, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 5.435, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.435, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 5.436, 5.437, 5.438 and 5.439 are impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,440.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u408	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u409	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u410	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 5,440 because it has already been adopted in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u411	We take note of that. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.441, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.442, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.445, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.443, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.444, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.446, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.447, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.448, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.449, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5,450, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,451, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 5.452, which is identical to amendments 5.453 and 5.455, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). In accordance with Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the simultaneous vote of amendment 5.452, tabled by Senator Gasparri, identical to amendments 5.453, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia, and 5.455, tabled by Senator Crosio and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.456, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 5.457, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5,457, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.458, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would ask for the opinion of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government on the agenda presented in Article 5, as well as on Amendment 5.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u412	Mr President, I am in favour of the G5.100 and G5.101 agendas, while the opinion is against Amendment 5.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u413	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u414	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G5.100 and G5.101 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5 in the amended text.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u415	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u416	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u417	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we shall vote against Article 5, which is an article of delegation to the Government. First of all, we will vote against this article because it is clearly uncovered - it should not have been admitted under Article 81 of the Constitution - as stated in the same article when it refers to the legislative decree which must determine the size of the new and increased burdens and which must be issued only after or at the time of the entry into force of the legislative measures that allocate the necessary financial resources. We are therefore writing an article to which we do not know whether they will be able to follow implementing legislative decrees, because we do not know whether we will have the necessary resources to cover it and whether we will have the necessary measures to allocate the resources to cover the article. On the basis of the fact that there is this rule, Mr President, we have argued that it could not have been extended to the Sardinian language for broadcasting at regional fora. We are faced with paradoxes. The real reason why the Sardinian language will not be included among those mentioned in Article 5 (d) - and it is a reason that hurts a suffering community - lies in the fact that we are not supporters of the Government: it is in this simple fact, that we, I repeat, are not supporters of the Government. In fact, if we had been supporters of the government, the Sardinian language would have been added. This is not a way that positively marks the process of development of national politics, the action of its parties, the connection of these parties with the communities of which our population is composed; on the contrary, it pushes them away and there is no bragging about this. Look, these chapters are written in parliamentary acts and are now seen on television, they are broadcast and everyone is aware of them. When we do something as wrong as this, it is known that the next day will be resumed and, slowly, the furrow between those who are here and those who are outside, between those who defend the rights and those who instead suppress and violate them will be dug more and more. It makes me like that some of you, who should think as I do, in this case did not bother to support the sacrosanct right of a community with a single word in the debate. This will also be marked, this will also have an impact. Mr President, today I met an authoritative person of great moral prestige who asked me what we can do for Sardinia. One thing we can do. I tell that person from this microphone: one thing we can definitely do. We must stop discriminating against Sardinia and Sardinia, through the rules that are voted on in Parliament. I repeat: we must stop discriminating against Sardinia and the Sardinians through the rules that are being voted on in this House! [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and Senator Scilipoti Isgrò.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u418	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 5 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.1, tabled by Senators Minzolini and Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having to organise the continuation of the work, I would remind my fellow Members that Article 6 remains to be examined, on which we will have to make about twenty votes and whose examination should therefore be quite quick, and Article 2, which is a weight item. If you agree, I will proceed quickly to the examination of Article 6 and then, if necessary, we will take a little more account of the wording of the amendments and the discussion of Article 2. We shall therefore proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u419	I am in favour of Amendments 6,500/14, tabled by Senator Cociancich and 6,500. The opinion is opposed to all other amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u420	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u421	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.1, which is identical to Amendments 6,200 and 6,201. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.1, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini, identical to amendments 6,200, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia, and 6,201, tabled by Senator Crosio and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,500/1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6,500/2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u422	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u423	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u424	Mr Fornaro (PD). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 6,500/2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u425	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6,500/3.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u426	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u427	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u428	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am sorry that Senator Fornaro withdrew amendment 6,500/2, the same as my amendment, on 6,500/3. It is an amending proposal that deletes paragraph 1 of amendment 6,500 tabled by the Government, in place of the previous writing of article 6. The Government intends to give all the powers to the CEO by subverting the board of directors, subverting the principles enshrined in the Constitutional Court with four judgments issued in 1974, in the eighties, in 2008 and in 2009, to which we refer and to which reference is made that the law that fortunately we will apply next Tuesday, in compliance also with the constitutional principles to which that law is informed. The government wants to give power to itself, contrary to the rules in force and the judgments of the Court. Attention, because giving all these powers to the CEO, subversing the board of directors, will lead to the unconstitutionality of this law, which is born dead. In fact, Senator Fornaro had correctly identified, like me, the need to suppress paragraph 1. What does it say? First of all, we note that this law is going to happen who knows when. So, by practically translating, first of all the board of directors is renewed by the law currently in force, which will take place next Tuesday. I repeat, this law will be passed in a long time, because it will have to pass to the examination of the House, then maybe they will have to return the delegation to article 4 that has been cancelled, then it will return to the Senate, then it will make some travels. The Director-General will become such in the next few days with the limited and respectful powers of the Board of Directors elected by Parliament, thanks to this paragraph 1, which I believe should be deleted, and which Senator Fornaro also wanted to delete. When the law we are discussing is passed, the Director-General will become CEO with broad but unconstitutional powers. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u429	Colleagues, do not disturb the colleague who is intervening.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u430	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). The deletion of paragraph 1 provided for in my amendment avoids that when this law is passed, which recalls a joke that has been recited many times in the Senate Chamber, the regulation of RAI becomes unconstitutional. The progress of these days leaves me sufficiently serene, but I invite you to vote on my amendment - and I say with respect also to those who had made the same assessment of maintaining it - so that this law, when it is ever passed, will become unconstitutional and give all the power to the Government. Senator Mineo is talking on the phone right now, but I'll call you back. There is talk against the power and role of Parliament, but the CEO with all the powers, Senator Mineo, is contrary to the principle of pluralism. So with Amendment 6,500/3 we want to delete the figure of this super-cEO. I freely trust in the votes of those who share this principle, regardless of their membership. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u431	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u432	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u433	TONINI (PD). Mr President, I would ask you to check the order of our votes a little more thoroughly, because our offices point out to us that the adoption of Article 6, without having voted on Article 2 first, if amendments were to be made to Article 2, could lead to problems of systematic regulation. So, I would ask for an additional inquiry on this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u434	We'll check with the offices right away. In the meantime, we are voting on the sub-amendments which are independent of the adoption of the article. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,500/3, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,500/4, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,500/5, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,500/6, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,500/7, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,500/8, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6,500/9.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u435	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u436	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u437	Mr Fornaro (PD). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 6,500/9.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u438	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u439	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u440	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to echo Amendment 6,500/9.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u441	That's not necessary, Senator Gasparri. The amendment is essentially identical to the subsequent 6,500/10, 6,500/11 and 6,500/12. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment No 6,500/10, which is essentially identical to Amendments Nos 6,500/11 and 6,500/12.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u442	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u443	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u444	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, sub-amendment 6,500/10 deletes paragraph 3, which, as has already been said, is the part which gives the Director-General the "powers" of the CEO, as contained in the law. Then we will see what the powers will be when we examine Article 2. This means that we give a great deal of power to this Director-General, but, as we have repeatedly said in this House, we continue to appoint the Board of Directors by the old law. You can't tell what kind of hybrid this is. Maybe cloning? I would say a hybrid; a genetically modified organism: we could call it this new board of directors that comes about with the grafting of a man by superpowers. Frankly, however, we like Superciuk and never Superman as a superhero - if he allows me a joke, since the time he's waiting for us here is long - that's what Superciuk and never Superman used to steal from the rich to give to the poor to give to the rich, which is what will happen. Mine was a joke, President; I was absolutely ironic. Apart from the lines, the deletion of paragraph 3 would make sense, although it does not make sense in the light of what is happening, namely that the new board of directors will be appointed by the notorious Gasparri law. Let us never forget that President Renzi came to say in public, clearly, that the Board of Directors would never be renewed with the old "Gasparri law"; instead, on Tuesday we will do just that, so it seems to me that there is always the famous congruence between the facts and the words that this ambiguous pseudo-person, called President Renzi, comes continually to say, not only inside, but also outside of this Chamber. It would perhaps be appropriate to repeal paragraph 3 of Article 6. It would simply take normal courage, nothing more, to avoid doing this strange genetically modified organism. I ask all senators to just feel free. You know, freedom is something that makes us feel good, it's a profound, beautiful concept; basically, it's freedom that allows us to be men, people, and to look in the mirror not only in the morning but also in the evening, when we go to bed. It would be enough simply to be free to say that we do not like genetically modified organisms: we have the courage to be free and to vote on sub-amendment 6,500/10.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u445	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u446	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u447	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Amendment 6,500/11, which I tabled with Senator Minzolini, states exactly what I said earlier. Senator Cioffi, on the basis of the heterogeneous aims - then we will explain what it is - also presented and illustrated an amendment that restores the powers of the Director-General provided for by the notorious law in force. I thank him, therefore, for unknowingly making a contribution to restoring and maintaining that constitutional principle, which Senator Mineo and other senators in other cases have made in order to prevent the overpower of a future Managing Director appointed by the Government from compressing a Board of Directors expressed by Parliament, in contradiction with the Constitution. Sometimes, even if they don't know it, they make good statements. We shall vote in favour of amendment 6,500/11. [[Applause from Senator Mandelli]] CIOFFI (M5S). I studied. You don't know.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u448	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,500/10, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators, essentially identical to amendments 6,500/11, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini, and 6,500/12, tabled by Senator Crosio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,500/13, tabled by Senator Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,500/14, tabled by Senator Cociancich. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Great success of Senator Cociancich. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,500/15, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,500/16, tabled by Senator Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,500/17, tabled by Senator Pagnoncelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,500/18, tabled by Senator Crosio, which is essentially identical to amendment 6,500/19, tabled by Senator Crosio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,500/20, tabled by Senator Pagnoncelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,500/21, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,500/22, tabled by Senator Pagnoncelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We have thus come to the vote on Amendment 6,500, which is entirely a replacement for Article 6. I have to agree with Senator Tonini: referring to Article 2, in the unfortunate - or wished - hypothesis that this would be rejected, we would find ourselves in a mess, so the vote on amendment 6,500 will be the last, immediately after the possible approval of Article 2. We shall therefore proceed to the examination of Rule 2, which was previously set aside, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I call on the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u449	Mr President, several amendments to Article 2 re-examine the issue of the power of the Managing Director and Director-General. In particular, we have already seen amendments to the original text in the Commission. (at 19.20) (Follows GASPARRI). The function of a President-in-Office of the Council has been restored, which is there today and will be there next week, thanks to the rule that a two-thirds majority of the vote of the Parliamentary Supervisory Committee is required for the President proposed by the Government to become such. Therefore, there is an obligation to share, which is a good thing, which in theory everyone hopes for but which then, when laws foresee it, tries to eliminate. In addition to this, we believe that there are other issues, with amendments concerning the binding opinion of the Management Board in relation to the Director-General's proposals. Already in the Commission, as we have restored with our amendments the figure of the President of guarantee, which is provided for in the current law and which will still be there, when this law will never be passed, we have introduced the mandatory opinion for the appointment of networks and newspapers. We believe that the Council's opinion should be binding and, therefore, we have tabled amendments in this respect. I see that other senators from other groups have also tabled them, but I hope that they do not do as they did before: that is to say, that they present the amendment and that, when called to order, they put the principles in the drawer for party discipline. Some of them, however, have freely taken part in this debate. I have quoted Senator Mineo several times, whom I have known for a long time and with respect to which I have very different ideas. On some issues, however, there can be room for comparison in the relationship between pluralism, democracy, Parliament and the public service. The point, in fact, is not to give all the power to the government. What Renzi wanted to do without success was a trick: away the parties from RAI to put only one, his, giving all the powers to the Government. The maneuver was attempted. Trying to keep her going, but she's failed for now. And in its fallibility Parliament is better, where the thoughts are many and different than the government pro tempore, which can be of one color or another. Article 2 deals with these issues. And it was good for Senator Tonini, wisely, to postpone the vote on Article 6, rewritten by the Government, because also the somewhat questionable way (and I could describe it in a slightly more incisive way) of the Government to conduct the work has created an interweaving. Article 2 is important and we will have to vote on it and follow it carefully and - I hope - also consistently on the part of those who have made proposals for amendments that I hope will not end some of the proposals with the withdrawn amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u450	Madam President, I shall go into detail, amendment by amendment, in the explanation of vote. Surely Article 2 covers the whole question of the heart of what we propose. There is an entirely replacement amendment which provides for the reform of the AGCOM which, in our draft law, had to function as the first point for verification and for the function of the steering booth, which we can make him carry out even without reforming it. A transparent procedure for the submission of candidates for the Management Board and for the role of CEO is also provided for. This is because we believe that the first, the founding, point for a new RAI consists of three basic requirements. The first relates to good repute, that is to say, the fact that a candidate has no criminal background, has not been sentenced and is not in a legal state which is not appropriate to the role he or she should play. The second is independence, which was the fundamental point of our bill. Moreover, this point saw similar, in the proposal of the Renzi Government and in that of the 5 Star Movement, the two aspects: that is, a very slim board of directors. Simply, while the Premier predicted that this board of directors, very slim, was appointed and dependent on the Government and the parties, we instead applied a very simple equation: the greater operation of a slim board of directors is directly proportional to its greater independence. Clearly, as we build control equipment on it, we slow down the decision-making process. The characteristics of RAI, inherent in the fact that it is a huge company, which must be reformed almost from the foundations, in some ways - which must be done quickly - required a very effective ability to operate and agility of the board of directors. Unfortunately, in the Commission, we were faced with a basic text of the draft law starting from that of the government, which did not provide for this independence. We then tabled a number of amendments, which we have written and reworded specifically - but I will present them to you later, in the explanation of vote, because you will have to be careful - which relate to these positive and negative requirements. Among the positive requirements - I repeat - there are the competences, identified by areas: we must think that RAI is a society that has technologies, therefore, there must be technological skills, but also editorial skills, because it is a cultural industry, as well as legal and managerial, because a board of directors does that. Among the negative requirements, however, we include fundamental concepts, first of all the independence of candidates: no candidate, as we had foreseen in our legal text, can enter the office of board of directors if in the last five years he has been in Parliament and, in politics or in the secretariat of a party and, if he has therefore held elected or governmental positions. This was immediately seen as an outrage to Parliament by many, but not by all; on the contrary, many have told me that it was an excellent proposal, which I will explain later in detail. After that, there were other negative requirements, which I will explain later. Another fundamental aspect that President Tarantola reminded us yesterday, during the hearing in the RAI Supervisory Committee, is about transparent procedures. One thing that we consider essential is that the proposals and curricula of candidates are collected, as well as a description of how they intend to implement the public service, with a transparent procedure, which is then published, visible and accessible on the Internet. I have mentioned President Tarantola because - as you said - transparent procedures correspond to effective and democratic procedures, which tend above all to eliminate the plague in RAI, that is, the mediocrity of the recommended, which puts the whole system in crisis. If we could have a comprehensive transparency plan - and I have to say that some things have been transposed, which I am pleased about - the bill would already begin to improve. Although it is controlled by politics and government, the new board of directors would start to invest in the profiles of competence, which is what it needs first of all. The CEO, then, is a big problem, because Italy is the only country that would see a public service in which the shareholders' meeting decides directly who it is. Not only that: the managing director has many powers, but on this - I repeat - we are also in agreement, because, if one must reform a company, it must be operational; the problem, however, is its independence. Many people have told us, believe me: Ingrid Deltenre, Director-General of the EBU (European Broadcasting Union), who manages and brings together all European public services, with a billion spectators. And if you tell us, I'd stretch an ear. Professor Cheli, in a hearing at the Supervisory Committee, told us that it is not unconstitutional to predict that politicians do not set foot in RAI for a time. Perhaps, however, it is not constitutional for the government to decide directly who it will administer, as well as its editorial lines and internal appointments in the field of public radio and television service. This is expected in Moldova and Bulgaria. That is unacceptable. Starting to conclude, the votes are also important, because in the text the four candidates expressed by Chamber and Senate are elected with a vote limited to one. This implies that, with a large majority prize, in the face of very fragmented oppositions, the majority - if you like - is the en plein, in the sense that it agrees. Let us say that the majority award to the House is 340 Members, predicting that the Senate will disappear, 170 vote one candidate, 170 vote another, oppositions must reach that number or at least approach. If at every vote the majority is defeated and the oppositions do not agree - imagine putting in agreement oppositions so far away on some visions - it means that the CEO is not only appointed by the Government, but the entire board of directors is in the hands of the majority. This can happen now because you are there, but - as I have said several times about constitutional reforms - it is not said that this despotic system that is building tomorrow does not belong to someone else who wins the elections. But I reserve the right to continue. We therefore proposed a vote with a two-thirds majority, which at least provides for an agreement between the parties and a sharing. After all, it is the system that to date guarantees the maximum sharing between political forces.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u451	Madam President, on matters of parliamentary technique we have followed another order, but I would like to point out to my colleagues that, with Article 2, we are at the heart of the draft law: in fact, I would remind you that the measure involves the reform of governance and Article 2 essentially redesigns the governance of the RAI. I will divide my speech into two parts. Firstly, I claim with a bit of pride that the real innovative system, the real reformative action was contained in the draft law that I had presented and which was then transformed into Amendment 2.6. All the more so, after the discussion in the Commission and in the Chamber, I come out even more strengthened in the conviction that the real turning point of the RAI passed from the dual system, that is, from a clearer distinction between the power of direction and control, entrusted to the supervisory board, and the power of management, entrusted to a management board, with an independent president, a managing director with full powers and with three other senior executives of the Company, on the classic dual model of Nordic matrix. I am sorry that Mr Giacomelli is not here, but I do not reveal any secrets - the rapporteur knows that - if I say that there has also been a debate on this issue within the PD Group in the Supervisory Committee. I am aware that in the end the Government's choice has gone somewhere else, that is, towards substantial maintenance - the term "mechanical" is given to me - of the Gasparri law. I would ask him, however, for a symbolic availability in relation to the transformation of amendment 2.6 on the dual system into an agenda on which he is committed to assessing the appropriateness of using the dual system when - I hope soon - he will address the issue of a more comprehensive reform of the RAI, and not only of governance. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur essentially whether he is prepared to turn the agenda into an opportunity. There are also two other issues that I would like to highlight, given that I am now announcing the withdrawal of amendment 2.117, which concerns the sources of appointment of the President and the CEO of the RAI. As far as the President is concerned, in the work of the Commission, in an effort which the Government has made and which I give him, there has been a search for a solution that takes into account a President of guarantee. I have the impression and, therefore, the doubt that in the end the solution found is somehow a step back and not forward. At this point, if you wanted a President of guarantee, you could go towards the solution of a President appointed, as has already been for the past, in agreement between the Presidents of the House and the Senate. We have put the proposal on the table and of course we will wait for the rapporteur's assessment of this and then we will comply. There is one last issue that I personally hold very much and is the subject of the source of appointment of the managing director, on which the confrontation was absolutely loyal and also profitable with the rapporteur. It is true that in the model of classic companies, even more so of companies of the size of RAI, the source of appointment is directly the shareholder who indicates the head of the company. But I would point out that the panorama of a somewhat atypical object, i.e. state televisions, by a public majority, tells us that this is not the case. In the hearing of the director of the EBU, the models for the appointment of the heads of companies and the managing director were indicated at this time. There are basically two: the first is a BBC model, in which there is a division of ownership, and therefore the State no longer has direct ownership and entrusts to a trust, to a foundation the appointment of the heads of companies; the second, widespread in all the main European nations and the European Broadcasting Union (EBU), with the exception of Bulgaria, is the board, that is the board of directors that appoints the managing director. With the exception of Bulgaria, there is no direct appointment of the CEO. I observe in the text of the Government in some way a contradiction, that is the Government says that the managing director is appointed by the board of directors, on proposal of the shareholders' meeting, that is of the Government, that is in fact is a nomination of the Government. I believe that, having the Government the possibility of appointment, both in the new model, and in the model that we have in some way enshrined and provided for in the current Gasparri law, one can identify the power of direction of the shareholder, which I share, in the expression of one of the two advisors who are appointed by the Government on the board of directors. At that point it is the board of directors that appoints the managing director. There is, therefore, no direct appointment. I realize that this is a matter of a formal rather than a substantive nature, but I hope that I have been able to explain that there is a logic behind which, in an atypical company, a public good, a piece of the country's material Constitution as RAI is, there is a clearer distinction between the power of the Executive and the power of Parliament. I feel, from this point of view, at this stage, that I am continuing to insist with the Government and the rapporteur that this element should go in the direction of our amendment, which - I repeat - has nothing revolutionary or obstructive towards the Government. It is simply taking photographs of the best European practices, if not of almost all the practices of the major European public service companies, to apply them also to RAI.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u452	Madam President, a number of previous senators spoke of the heart of the measure. I do not know, though, whether this modest provision has a heart. I'm sure he's got a belly, and I think we're talking about this. It seemed clear to me, from the very first discussions, that governance was meant by an authoritarian cut, which was precisely mentioned. In the Commission we have had moments of in-depth study of European experiences and this section has precedents only in the most primitive European situations from the point of view of setting up and operating not only large public companies and large companies producing information and culture, but I would like to say those of large companies in general. That proposal, in fact, is a governance entirely based and crushed, like all the so-called reforms of this Government, on the Executive. We have dealt with - I say this explicitly - in a radical form a proposal for reasoning within the limits of governance, in order to allow a neurological reality such as RAI Radiotelevisione italiana to connect powerfully and continuously with the outside world, with that social, civil and intellectual fabric fundamental for our country in absolute and for itself. In our draft law there was an absolutely alternative proposal, but we dedicated ourselves with determination and seriousness to do an operation even within Article 2. On the one hand, with the amendments, we have focused not on quantity, but on quality by proposing tools that allow, even with the perspective and cultural dimension desired by the Government's proposal, to offer alternatives. When we talk about the advice of guarantees and the advice of participation, we say this, that is to put ourselves in tune, even before absolutely different instruments and forms of election and contrary to our vision. Given that - as has been mentioned - the dual form has not been chosen, however, it is necessary to give us and give places to this citizenship in order to carry out the function not only of control and guarantee, but also - precisely - of participation. We have even tried to regulate the forms of this participation and control. I have to say that, in the first step from the Commission to this House, we have taken account of the comments that have been made to us - here too I think in a somewhat instrumental and very ideological way, and I refer to the famous stamps under Article 81 of the Constitution - specifying in the sub-amendments that these instruments do not impose any burden on the State. If you read this carefully, you will see that it is made clear that there are no tokens, no emoluments for the members of these bodies. We are faced with bodies that, at times, we expected a different response to, not so much a closure or an instrumental attitude, but an attitude aimed at saying: since they cannot be binding, we make these bodies consultative and therefore do not go to dismantle the scaffolding that a majority and a government consider legitimate and on which they proceed. If not, I do not really understand how, beyond the formality, the debate and listening in this House too are taking place. Materially they don't happen, in the sense that you go with your head down. Only when the head hits some wall, as was the case with reference to Article 4, then questions are asked. I would like the time we have available, although insufficient, to be used to deal with the substance not with the indistinguishable mass of the amendments, but with certain specific amending proposals which represent an alternative, albeit not contradictory, possibility which can open up gaps and contribute to a more balanced judgment on a measure which would otherwise be a single case. I believe that, in this case, the measure would be absolutely observed by the bodies of the European Community, because we have already been told not by a passerby, but by the Director of EBU, that there are no similar cases of legislation in this area, except the famous one in Bulgaria. Let us not put in that list and try, even in these hours, to give us counterweights, even if they are consultative and not cogent. I will not be the one to say how one can find oneself inside a path that allows, precisely, to make a step forward that, although not complete, can respond to the criticisms that are advanced in this regard.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u453	Madam President, as Senator Cervellini has already explained, the amendments we have tabled to this article are of two kinds. As far as the first type is concerned, it is the proposal that we have made, overall and articulated, the result of the draft law that we have presented, which, in truth, had taken for good those statements by Renzi, according to which, at last, a reform of the RAI and its governance would have put it out of the control of the parties. Why did we take it as a good thing? Because we thought that we wanted to refer to the best experiences there are in this sense in Europe, which have a very clear organization profile - I think of Germany, Great Britain, Spain and, to be honest, I would never have thought of Bulgaria - that try to name the real independence of the company that runs the public service. Since in our country the discussion on what may be the nomination mechanisms (so the governance of the boards of directors) has been going on for a long time and since it for the truth, in past times, has also passionate about the best intelligences and opinions makers of this country, we thought that the fundamental question to be addressed was to introduce a kind of gap between the Company and the different powers, especially those of the parties. For this reason, the main question we raised was to ensure that the Supervisory Committee disappeared and that, on its behalf, but with a very different capacity to represent society and its plural bodies, a Council for Guarantees in the public service was set up, which, in its definition, I believe is very much in the sense of what we mean. It is a guarantee board for the public service composed in an absolutely articulated way. And I would like to remind you here, precisely because it certainly gives the sign of political representation (it is however that it provides for six members elected by the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, two elected by the State-Regions Conference and the ANCI), and then provides for the entry - finally - of the associations of artists, producers, directors and users of the television service. I talked about it earlier, in article 4, about the canon, explaining that the canon is seen as a tax in some way not loved by citizens, because one has never had the courage to call users themselves to a control and participation in the dynamics, management and address of the company. We have found the solution to introduce them into the Guarantee Board, as well as representatives of other associations that I am not here to list. The meaning is very clear: to subtract RAI from the parties and the dynamics of lottification, leaving certainly a pluralistic political representation, but also inserting one of the country and civil society and, however, of all those who should have the possibility to say their own and also to bring their own experience (I used to speak of producers, artists, directors and all the information operators). It is the guarantee board, in our proposal, that appoints the board of directors; it is the famous intercapedine that fully guarantees the pluralism and independence of the service of the public company. What we find here - which is then the heart and the true purpose of this bill, that is to intervene on governance - proposes a completely different model: a very strong control, on the part of the Government, first of all on the board of directors, because in the end we create a director (which is what decides most) composed of the president and two directors of administration, expression of the shareholder, and therefore of the Government. Then there's the CEO's vulnus. In our case, however, the guarantee board, which is the intercapedine, appoints the board of directors, which then appoints the director-general. In our proposal we also address the question of the professionalism, skills and transparency with which members are chosen, asking the question not only of incompatibility, but also of their profile, through the proposal to set up a register at the Authority to register and submit applications and curricula to be consulted, so that the process is transparent and the selection is linked to professionalism. I do not dwell any further on the issue of the establishment of the legislation. It is clear, however, that we have tried to transfer this approach to a number of amendments, which also seek to include, in some way, strong elements of correction which - I am sorry to say - have not been taken into account. We have expressed our attempt to correct the plant through the submission of amendments, proposing the presence on the board of directors also of a representative of the users, to be accompanied by the representative of the workers. We have also indicated a profile of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, with precise features, through the establishment of a register with the Authority for the guarantees in communications. We have put the same question very strongly by bringing back to the board the appointment not of the CEO, but of the Director-General, for the issues we have addressed here, also in the debate on the sub-amendments to the amendment tabled by the rapporteur in Article 6. You've never seen such a thing: nothing but subtract RAI from parties! Here the RAI is placed directly in the hands of the Government and the majority. Let us think about what will happen in the future, when the Italicum comes into force, and the overwhelming majority of the board of directors, equal to two thirds, and the CEO will be the direct expression of the majority and the government. This involves a vulnus to the idea of independence, also due to the fact that it has not seriously addressed a debate on the public service. It is a very dangerous vulnus, which, when it ever comes into force, will also have consequences from the point of view of European legislation. The effort we have made has been to indicate a model that was the best one in Europe. We never imagined that we would consider Bulgaria's. I would like to remind you that Italy already has some problems with the ranking on freedom of information, around the seventieth or seventy-twond place. We would have needed everything, except to go and choose a model - in our opinion - authoritarian and dangerous. In addition, with the delegation provided for in Article 4, the operation was also carried out not to give certainty about resources. I believe that, from this point of view and with this facility, independence not only comes out humiliated, but is in danger of being completely questioned. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u454	Madam President, I should like to start with Amendment 2.347. I believe that Senator Gasparri poses a real question: why did the things for which the left and the Democratic Party have always fought go well before and are no longer good now that they are great partners of the Government? The Left and the Democratic Party have always said that it was necessary to separate the role of direction and control over the public service from the management and that direct management of the Government of the public service was to be avoided. I remember so much criticism of the Gasparri law for the fact that it provided for some direct management of the government on the RAI. The other question is to avoid consociativism: you see, a government management of the RAI can be combined with the breaking of bread to oppositions. But this, in a company that has to do information and culture, becomes a double trend because, on the one hand, you have control of the Government; on the other, you also have control of the most important opposition on your back. With Mr Tocci, then, we have taken up a historic proposal from the left, that of Gentiloni, which proposed a management of the political RAI, parliamentary, but not only political, given the appointment of some members of the control and guidance group by - for example - the National Academy of Linceans or the Conference of the Rectors of Italian Universities, and then a direct management of the RAI completely autonomous. I understand very well, of course - as Senator De Petris has said - that, having to choose within a few hours and with a majority that tends to vote only on the amendments on which there is the favourable opinion of the Government and the rapporteur, this is a flag position, President, which, however, has a great moral value. In fact, we will not save RAI without this characteristic: politics must really withdraw from RAI, and must carry out an action of direction and control, while management must be entrusted to professionals. You talk a lot about the BBC. That's how the BBC works. The second amendment on which I would like to dwell, on 2.362 - and here I distinguish myself from Senator Gasparri - tends to avoid the consociativism, which is not an alternative to the government's dirigism, because the two things can be compatible. It has happened that it has been given to the Parliamentary Supervisory Committee on broadcasting services - and those political bodies that are above RAI, from the Board of Directors to the Director, the CEO, the Parliamentary Supervisory Commission and AGCOM - the de facto choice of the President, who becomes a personality of the opposition, who to some extent balances the CEO. In the amendment that I have tabled we speak specifically of a President of guarantee who is not, however, more elected by a negotiation between majority and opposition: he is a President of guarantee who is elected by presidential decree, heard the Presidents of the Chambers. It is, that is, a President of guarantee who represents the institutions and not an agreement between the majority and the Government, who have all the power in RAI, and the opposition, who has the president's overt point and voice in the matter on the nominations of the directors of journalists. I end by adding that I completely agree with Senator Fornaro: let's avoid at least that the CEO is indicated by the Government. It is the same, because the board of directors will choose the managing director according to its majority and the government will have a strong majority on the board of directors. But let's avoid at least the disproportion of a board of directors that chooses the managing director, but indicating what the government has decided before.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u455	Madam President, I will speak very briefly because I will come back to the matter when I give an explanation of vote. We have identified a little cunning that has been implemented by RAI. When we all set the ceiling on compensation for public sector-controlled administrations together, we made only one derogation, namely for those companies that were listed on the stock exchange or that issued bonds traded on regulated markets. There was a logic in all this. Therefore, some companies, although controlled by the public hand, were removed from the above forecast. The RAI, at the time we determined that rule (first in 2011 and then, with some changes, in 2014), was included among the companies that had to be subject to the ceiling of compensation. Now the RAI has decided to issue bonds, perhaps because of a financial need, but it is still a mechanism that allows to circumvent the prescription of salary ceilings. [[Brusio]] Excuse me, Madam President, but with this buzz it is difficult to continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u456	Senator D'Alì, I understand. I've made constant calls. Colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u457	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). As I think this is a sensitive issue, I would like to ask my colleagues for some attention. Although RAI has decided to issue bonds and therefore to be part of the mechanism that allows it to avoid the ceiling of remuneration (the so-called salary ceiling), I propose that RAI be included in that roof being an absolutely public company: at least, so it wanted to maintain and this reform did not change its characteristics. When we determined the basic rule, we did so knowing that RAI was part of that group of companies. Therefore, the decision to issue financial market bonds is not sufficient to enable this board of directors, but especially the future ones, to compensate its members with figures exorbitant to the ceiling set by Parliament. That is why I have tabled Amendment 2,784, which is essentially equivalent to other amendments tabled by other Members on Article 3. I would therefore like to thank the Presidency for trying to unify the debate and I would recommend to my colleagues, when they are voting, that more attention be paid to the subject than they have shown at the moment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u458	Madam President, I would just like to focus, taking into account the way in which the law has been examined, on some contradictions that have emerged in the management of this important chapter by the Government and by the majority itself. In the RAI Supervisory Committee we now have to elect the RAI Summit because the current one has expired for two months now, which, probably, if there had been more attention, the Government could have anticipated without waiting for the last possible day. Secondly, we are examining a bill that deals mainly with governance, but in the end the new summit is appointed by the old law; this is another great contradiction. In addition, the article we are dealing with is embarrassing as a position in putting the question of a CEO with more powers, than from the point of view of school is also right: we are in a phase of such changes that to manage a company like RAI in the telecommunications sector, which changes day after day, it is clear that you cannot have the type of power that you once had; it is absolutely difficult. Precisely for this reason I do not understand why the CEO has not been given a little more, a greater measure of representativeness. I mean, just because you give him more powers, the type of appointment should be a little wider. What did we do instead? Even in formal terms, as Senator Fornaro rightly said, we make him descend directly from the Government, so more powers but an investiture that has a minor representation. In my opinion, this is another contradiction that probably creates problems, in the sense that it puts me personally in a condition - although I agree that the administrator has more powers at a time like this, precisely because it serves the company - of great difficulty to accept this type of system, this design, precisely because on the element of representativeness it even takes a step back. [[Applause from Senator Amidei.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u459	Madam President, I would like to endorse Amendment 2,784, tabled by Senator D'Alì. I shall then explain the amendments 2.0,200 and 2.0,201, which are very similar in the structure, although they represent substantially different aspects. With the first, it is proposed that three percent of the profits from the commercials broadcast by RAI, in which children are employed, be donated to the fund for childhood and adolescence. This should be the first step not to speculate on minors. The problem is that in this case the 5th Commission has expressed opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. However, we shall discuss this in the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u460	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u461	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u462	Mr Buemi, rapporteur. Madam President, I am simply speaking to inform the Presidency and colleagues of my decision to give up the role of co-rapporteur on this measure. (at 20.12 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u463	The Presidency takes note of this. The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u464	Mr President, I would like to proceed as I have done so far by giving my views in favour. I am in favour of amendment 2.272, subject to rewording. The text would read as follows: The composition of the Management Board shall be defined by favouring the presence of both sexes and by promoting the presence of one and the same.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u465	But you are referring to 2.274, not 2.272.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u466	RANUCCI, rapporteur. Yes, Mr President, amendments 2.272 and 2.274 are similar. Amendment 2.274 refers to both sexes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The rapporteur, what wording would you suggest? RANUCCI, rapporteur. The composition of the Management Board shall be defined by favouring the presence of both sexes. Therefore, I call for the withdrawal of amendment 2.272. I also call for the withdrawal of Senator Cioffi's amendment 2,323 and other senators, otherwise I am against it, as I am in favour of amendment 2,324 at the first signature of Senator Scibona, provided that, for reasons of coordination, the deletion of paragraph 10-a of Article 49 of the new text is envisaged, since the CEO is a member of the Management Board. On Senator Cociancich's amendment 2,495, identical to amendment 2,496, I am in favour. These amendments incorporate the rapporteur's amendment 2.497. I propose a rewording of Senator Airola and other senators' amendment 2.631. In paragraph 1 (e), after paragraph 10, insert the following words: "Proposes to the approval of the board of directors the Plan for transparency and corporate communication, which provides: 1 ) the most appropriate forms of making the information on the overall activity carried out by the Management Board known to the general public, except for special cases of duly justified confidentiality; 2 ) data on total investment in national audiovisual products and international co-production projects; 3 ) information on curricula and gross compensation received by managers; 4 ) the criteria for the assignment of works and supplies; 5) the data resulting from the verification of the appreciation of the general and specific programming of the company, for the purposes of the pursuit of the public service objectives. The opinion is in favour of amendment 2,783, provided that the managing director is excluded from the remuneration ceiling, with the following rewording: In point (e) of paragraph 1, the following shall be inserted after the second paragraph: To the members of the administrative and control bodies of RAI-Radiotelevisione Spa, with the exception of the managing director, the maximum remuneration limit referred to in Article 23-a, paragraphs 5-a and 5-b, of Decree-Law No 201 of 6 December 2011, converted, with amendments, by Law No 214 of 22 December 2011, and subsequent amendments to the Decree-Law No 201 of 6 December 2011. Then, Mr President, I would turn back to Senator Fornaro's request for amendment 2.6, which is a rather special request. It is clear that there are two completely different visions between the governance proposed in this draft law, and that we have discussed so far, and the governance that Senator Fonaro and other colleagues have proposed in our Commission and in the debate. With all due respect for the different visions, because it is clear that this is a different view, Senator Fornaro has asked to turn Amendment 2.6 into an agenda. I have nothing against recognizing that there may be a different possibility. However, I would ask Senator Fornaro to evaluate this reformulation in such a way that it is absolutely not impacting on what we are doing, but that it is a memory of a path that has been made. Senator Fornaro is a great expert in society. We recalled that when the general debate and the rapporteur's reply took place. Today many companies are taking a step backwards, especially from the point of view of governance, including banking, to which many have been inspired. It is clear, then, that there is a rethinking of that model. However, out of respect for those who think otherwise, with a rewording that is not strict with regard to this measure, the agenda can be accepted. On the rest of the amendments, the opinion was negative.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u467	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. I would add a point of reflection on the heart of Article 2, on which many amendments have been made. On the one hand, there are the sources of appointment and, on the other, the relationship between the board of directors and the managing director. I would like the House to reflect on these elements. It is quite clear that, as we have already said, the Senate is a stage in a path that does not exhaust the examination of possibilities. I listened carefully to Senator Fornaro's argument, as well as to other members of the majority, the Opposition Groups and Senator Gasparri. The government's opinion is clear. There is no contradiction with the approach of the Constitutional Court's judgments. The relationship between the board of directors and the managing director must be assessed as a whole. It is true that, as today there is a proposal of the shareholder, it is also true that the board of directors appoints and revokes - can revoke - the managing director. So, in our opinion, there is a balanced system of powers. However, neither on this puto nor on any other we are unavailable to an open comparison that will examine every possibility and verify all points. We weren't in the Senate, and we won't be in the next steps. Since the beginning of this path, the Government has shown that that caricature image of the armored position does not correspond to reality. An invitation to withdraw, made on these points and with this premise not to stiffen the confrontation unnecessarily, I do not think it represents a problem. During the vote, and since we have further steps before us to reflect and compare, I believe that the withdrawal of the amendments concerning the sources of appointment and this report, starting with Senator Fornaro's amendment 2.6 (which has explained his, but has given voice to a position that those who took part in the Commission's work can be diffused), allows us to avoid, simply, stiffening positions. That is why I would like to point out the call for the withdrawal of the amendments which concern these points. Otherwise, the opinion is in line with the rapporteur's opposite if the invitation is not accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u468	Do you accept the invitation to retreat, Senator Fornaro?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u469	Mr President, in thanking the rapporteur and the Undersecretary, it is clear that, with regard to amendment 2.6, the things that my colleague, Senator Ranucci, has said are acceptable: nobody wants to question everything, that is clearly not our intention. Somehow, though, there was a desire for the dual system not to be completely erased from the horizon. A formulation that is simply an invitation to the Government to consider taking into account the adoption of a reform of the dual system within a more general and overall reform of the RAI, in these terms, I believe can be accepted. On the other issue, I would also like to be extremely honest with the Undersecretary Giacomelli: here we have touched on one of the fundamental elements and an extremely delicate aspect, namely the source of appointment of the managing director. I am pleased that the Government has an understanding that this is a problem and that, therefore, in the seat of the Chamber, the solution can be found as close to the European models as possible. From this point of view, therefore, the call is to check the modalities of other large public companies of the European radio and television service, therefore good practices, and to find a solution that avoids such direct appointment by the Government. In the light of Mr Giacomelli's remarks, which remain in the minutes, I withdraw all the amendments to my first signature referred to Article 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u470	Senator Fornaro, with regard to amendment 2.6, of course, awaits the rapporteur's reply: is that so? Mr Fornaro (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u471	Mr President, since I am interested in the relationship with this House, I would simply like to reiterate one point, so that the Government's position is clear. We consider the text that we have proposed to be balanced; we do not believe that it brings a vulnus to democracy or an imbalance in relations between the Government and Parliament and we think that the role of the CEO and his relationship with the Management Board is a balanced and adequate balance of powers to transform the RAI into a company that meets our objectives. I repeat one thing that I have said since the beginning of the journey: we are not unwilling to measure on every point that is proposed by the Groups and by the Assembly, the Senate and the House, and not even on these, the possibility of improvements to the text. It has already happened in the Commission: I just remember that there, on these points, the comparison has given us a positive result, but I want to be clear. This willingness, which has been there since the beginning, continues: the Government's opinion, however, does not start from a negative conception of the text it proposed, but from the possibility of demonstrating, even in a comparison, that it is balanced. On everything else, I also believe that the passage to the other branch of Parliament, as is clear to everyone, in the light of today's votes, will be anything but formal; for the Government a possible new debate is opened in this House, which will check all the points that are proposed on this and on the other issues.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u472	I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda G2.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u473	The opinion was in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u474	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u475	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u476	You have the right to do so. Senator Puglia, would you like to sign the G2.6 agenda? PUGLIA (M5S). Yes, Mr President, and I would like to make my own all the amendments withdrawn by my colleague in the PD. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u477	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u478	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u479	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, my request was for an explanation, which made me wait a long time. In expressing his opinions, the surviving rapporteur, Mr Ranucci, gave an opinion in favour of amendment 2,495 at the first signature of Senator Cociancich. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Then there is also your amendment 2,496. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). As I tabled an identical amendment, I wanted to know whether it should be considered negative simply because I had my first signature. As one of the issues we raised was the elimination of the Directory - let us call it that - and we did not have an answer, I note that the rapporteur, Mr Ranucci, having the names already set, still does not understand the issues we are asking him. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I reminded him that his amendment was identical.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u480	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u481	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u482	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to address you. I know it's late, it's August, and it's the end of July, but we have to do things in a credible way, even if who knows when the law will come into force. The following has happened. Senator Fornaro made some critical comments, withdrew the amendments and then the rapporteur, with the courtesy (I say no irony) that he had, proposed to turn amendment 2.6 into an agenda. It cannot be done, because Amendment 2.6 states the opposite of the law, namely that the Board of Directors is dealing with the dual system. It's another thing: one is white and the other is black. An amendment is voted on and if it is approved it becomes the text of the law. It is obvious that the government must be open to what happens; I know that an agenda is not denied to anyone (I was taught it at the dawn of my political career), but in this case it is a substantial issue. In fact, in Amendment 2.6 (possibly on the agenda) something different is stated: we do not opt for the board of directors elected in part by Parliament, as the Government proposes and as we are doing. That's another thing. Then, if you can present an agenda in this way, I could propose one according to which Senator Ranucci is 2.2 meters tall and he would welcome me because he is a kind person; then another senator could present another agenda according to which he is 1.5 meters tall. Colleagues, we are in Parliament, it is okay to please friends and to hold the debate in an acceptable manner, but we cannot go any further. I say this to the Presidency, of which I am also a member. We cannot present certain agendas; then if the Government declares that it will make an assessment it is another account; however, an agenda has its value, no matter how much we grant them all and I also grant them to myself.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u483	Senator Gasparri, on the first impact, with respect to amendment 2.6 I have made the same reflection. However, when I heard Senator Fornaro's intervention in which he said that the prediction was part of a more comprehensive reform, then frankly I realized that he was not referring to the object we are discussing, but to something later. However, I do not want to be the authentic interpreter of Senator Fornaro. BONFRISCO (CRI). This isn't it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u484	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u485	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u486	Mr Fornaro (PD). Mr President, I do not wish to abuse the patience of my fellow Members, but Mr Gasparri's observation is not unfounded. The spirit was the following, I say this to understand us: it is also clear to me that it is an alternative model, in fact I said that that agenda ended with the invitation, as the President said, to the government to evaluate it within the possibilities when such a reform was being carried out. That being said, if it creates embarrassment or if the Presidency considers it irrational to withdraw it without problems. That wasn't the spirit, I think it was understood. If it creates a procedural problem, I have no difficulty in withdrawing it, because I hope and believe that we will return to the dual system, which I personally believe is the solution for this company.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u487	From the procedural point of view, Senator Fornaro, in your statement, the commitment is not to implement what is envisaged in the amendment, but in view of a broader rule. Among other things, Senator Puglia asked to sign it, so it will be voted on anyway.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u488	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u489	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u490	CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). Mr President, also on behalf of Senator Bocchino, I would like to sign the agenda G2.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u491	The Presidency takes note of this. Amendments 2,200 to 2,203 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.4 SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.4, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.204 and 2.205 have been withdrawn. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 2.206, 2.207 and 2.208 are impervious. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.209, tabled by Senator Stucchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.210, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.211 to 2.215 have been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the G2.6 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u492	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u493	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u494	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, this amendment essentially proposes in a more or less complete way the original proposal which reflects our idea of what the RAI should be. So I wanted to talk about it, because basically the heart of our original proposal, the thing that we consider more and more consistent with the final objective that we had given, that was to free RAI from the parties, was the mode of appointment of the members of the board of directors. We had proposed, and we continue to think that the optimal solution was that the appointment of members would take place through a ban that was to be called by AGCOM, as we have repeatedly said, that it would select a number of people with certain very strict characteristics. This is in order to create a grid from which to choose a number of names that would then become the members of the board of directors, through what we have called a draw, which seemed to us the only way that could really eliminate the indications from the parties. Obviously what will happen on Tuesday, with the appointment of the new board of directors with the current law, will be nothing more than the perpetuation of what has always been and unfortunately also what will be. We really felt that that was the only way, also because, as we have already said in general debate, there was no proposal for another, to free RAI from the parties. We tried to ask someone if there was a different and alternative way, and as we have already said in general discussion, this is essentially the same way that we have identified to choose the director of the work, for example, of a great public work, therefore in the system of concessions. In that case we did exactly that; we said that we would call for a ban and we would choose by drawing a draw from a grid of people of recognized abilities to whom we entrust the management of the works. If you can use this system for a large public work that can cost several billion euros, you don't understand why it doesn't have to be valid to choose a member of RAI's board of directors. We continue to believe that this would be the optimal solution. Then there are a number of amendments that put a brake and a few stakes in place. These are the famous stakes that a person who was also president of RAI told us about, who was overly mocked by a satirical program. However, the stakes are the minimum for when Parliament is going to vote; when that happens, because, as we have already said, this law will come into force, if it ever comes into force, after we have made the new board of directors with the current law. These posts are the minimum indispensable to choose the members of the board of directors. Of course, this amendment also talks about other issues on which the rapporteur has spoken and which he has partially accepted. For example, it also states that all contracts exceeding EUR 2.5 million are subject to the opinion of the Management Board. Instead, in the bill this stake was raised to 10 million euros. Since currently the amount is about 2,582,000 euros, it has not been understood why you want to raise this stake; perhaps it is always to give this great power to the managing director. Perhaps it is the case that on these contracts, which are important, important and substantial, there is a specific opinion, also because later on we will see that we have left the possibility of assigning work below the Community threshold even without competition. This is also a point that we believe is incorrect because it is contrary to what we have said about the procurement code. It is not clear why the RAI can entrust, without making the contest, a contract of works for an amount up to 5.150.000 euros. This is also a particular vulnus. Then there are a number of other things that we'll talk about later. However, it was important to make this statement on this amendment because, being the heart of our proposal, we believe it is important to reiterate, once again, what is our optimal solution. I do not think this is our optimal solution; I think it is an optimal solution, but since there has not been another one, it is the only one that we have encountered in this large number of amendments. That is why we wanted to take action to reaffirm our position. At times, as a Group, our position is held by someone who may be a little eltranzist, rigid or radical. I do not want to use the word utopia in this House because it is important and would require a lot more time to discuss it, however, sometimes remembering to tend to the dream and the possibility of feeling beyond tactics and the pure and a little sad and, perhaps, miserable partition, would allow us to do a better job, to be different and finally, perhaps, to fly with wings. Those great wings would perhaps bring us a different Italy. This is also this RAI reform since it is the tool that is used to do all the things we talked about in the mission on Article 1. Perhaps this Parliament should learn to spread its wings and feel free like a seagull. But sometimes, we believe that perhaps the only way is that the Five Star Movement goes to rule; when we rule we will free our wings and all those who have broken them will weep.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u495	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.7, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.216 to 2.220 have been withdrawn. I invite the rapporteur and the government representative to comment on the sub-amendments to amendment 2,7500, tabled by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u496	I am against all sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u497	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u498	I call on Senator Pagnoncelli and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 2,7500/79. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,7500/80 and 2,7500/81 have been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 2,7500/82, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). In accordance with Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,7500/82, tabled by Senator Crosio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u499	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u500	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u501	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to have the Secretary Senators remove the card that I believe belongs to Senator Scavone, who is voting with the paper ball but is not in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u502	I invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the removal of the card.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u503	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u504	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u505	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, pursuant to Rule 118 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, I request the annulment of the vote just taken, because it has been established that there was a ball of paper voting instead of a senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u506	I give the floor to annul the vote on Amendment 2,7500/82 and its immediate renewal. In accordance with Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,7500/82, tabled by Senator Crosio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,7500/83, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u507	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u508	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u509	IN MAY (CRI). Mr President, I should like to point out that I was unable to take part in this last vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u510	The Presidency takes note of this. Amendment 27500/84 has been withdrawn. I call on Senator Pagnoncelli and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on amendment 2,7500/113. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,750/114 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,750/157, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,7500/158 and 2,7500/159 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2,7500/160, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators, up to the word "every". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 2,7500/160 and amendment 2,750/161 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.7500/162.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u511	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u512	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u513	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, this amendment basically proposes something that we will then find in another amendment later, again on Article 2: these are the requirements that we consider important for the appointment of the members of the Management Board. In fact, some criteria are set out in Article 49, paragraph 4, of the law in force. However, we believe that the requirements of the members of the board that we propose are much clearer and more stringent, even if they can be identified as non-exclusive requirements. Indeed, the current wording of the requirements is quite general. This non-tendant definition, and therefore not very specific in terms of the characteristics and competences of the members of the board of directors, leaves more room for manoeuvre and greater scope for manoeuvre. Since Tuesday, as we have already said, we will have to go and name the members of the board with the old law and since there is this great availability (to name them Tuesday, probably many names are already in the minds, not to mention in the pockets, of those who will then have to choose these names), I think it's good that in this case too we start to put some 'hands in the dish and start to choose what are the characteristics. We proposed a series of characteristics, calibrated on our hypothesis and on our project, which was that - as we said before - to identify five components, precisely to have a slim, efficient and effective board of directors. The words "efficiency" and "effectiveness" always come back to us from a law that has been important in this country for those who cared like me about water, the Galli law, which spoke of efficiency, effectiveness and economics. It is therefore necessary to have a board of directors that is really effective in being able to identify and direct the RAI towards its new mission and it is good that it is composed of specific people and with very clear characteristics. During a speech we had with the rapporteur and the government, we also talked about not making these characteristics exclusive. We thought that maybe this could be a way to meet halfway through, in that speech that was also made by the Undersecretary, but leaving these characteristics, even if not exclusive. Of course, we believe that these characteristics are much more specific than those provided for by the current law and perhaps we should try to throw the heart beyond the obstacle. That is why we have tabled this amendment, which we shall also be discussing later. The request is to try to vote on it; perhaps you can think of rewording it, but the request is to try to vote on it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u514	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,7500/162, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,7500/179, 2,7500/180 and 2,7500/181 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,7500/182, tabled by Senator Crosio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,7500/183.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u515	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u516	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u517	SCIBONA (M5S). Mr President, as far as the characteristics of the members of the Management Board should be concerned, we appreciate the fact that there is the exclusion of ministerial figures (Ministers and Undersecretaries); this is very good. However, with our sub-amendment we say that perhaps we should not forget even the elective figures at national, regional and local level. These, in fact, already having a charge and a remarkable commitment (unless we are here scratching our thumbs), should not have so much time to devote to other; we could also mention the figures of the city councilors, in this case. The fact that there are not, however, in my opinion, is quite serious. I therefore hope that the House will be able to vote in favour of this amendment because it would be a matter of minimum respect for the institutions, the offices and the citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u518	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,7500/183, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,7500/184.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u519	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u520	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u521	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, Amendment 2,7500/184, as well as Amendment 2,7500/183, which we have already voted on - Senator Scibona has already mentioned this - are linked to the subsequent amendments 2,7500/238 and 2,7500/253 which we will discuss later. These amending proposals have been written separately, but they represent a single - and we are interested in talking about these amendments - and they constitute a single body, they are parts of the same vision. This is a very important issue for us, which we think quite rightly: presumably it will be the point - among others, for goodness sake - that will eventually lead us to take a position of contrast to this measure. In the amendment of the rapporteur - and therefore of course of the Government - it was not possible, in fact, to do what I was talking about before, namely to throw the heart beyond the obstacle, to fly. First we talked about flying: it may seem absurd to use this expression, but it is 21 o'clock and we can also think of a seagull flying in the night, if we want to say so. In fact, it has been written that among the members of the board of directors there can not be those who have held during the previous twelve months of Minister, Deputy Minister and Undersecretary. But nothing is said about senators or Members. It might happen, for example, that one of us who is sitting here today is elected as a member of the board, and that would not affect his independence, would not be a problem. It seems to me, instead, that it is a serious and important problem that those who have performed a political function are then to be members of RAI's board of directors, given the important role, for us, I would say fundamental, of RAI itself. Why didn't you have the courage to predict this? The Undersecretary told us that this law, when it ever passes, will not close in the Senate anyway: the House will be able to talk about it again. Good. Why - and I say this with all due respect for the rapporteurs, who have done a great deal of work - has it not been possible to complete the path on this point? Why are we scared? If the sub-amendment that I have tabled was approved by the Senate, in which it is expected that a member of a political body at national, regional and local level cannot join the RAI board of directors, then I would like to see what will happen on Tuesday to elect as a member of the board of directors one that may now sit in this Chamber or perhaps in that of the House. I would like to see whether there would be the courage to go against the will expressed by one of the two branches of Parliament. That is why we are asking everyone to vote in favour of this amending proposal, which we think is important.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u522	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u523	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u524	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I know it is irrational, but I would like to add one thing, because we are talking about a central point on which I would like to draw the attention of my colleagues quickly. Since we have been opposed to the possibility of considering immediately excluding from the Board of Directors of RAI all those who held an elective office, particularly Members of Parliament, and we know that on more than one occasion they have been elected to the Board of Directors of RAI of politicians and have made a mess, I would like to say, first of all, that we do not want to diminish the role of the Member of Parliament. Here we are talking about an independent power, that of information, which is a bit like the judiciary: certain rules that apply to the judiciary should also apply to information. Therefore no one wants to diminish the role of parliamentarians, but objectively there has been an exaggerated presence of politicians, who have entered directly on the Board of Directors of RAI. We're not saying they never have to do this, but we can't do it after a whole lot of time. It seems to me to be a basic concept, especially in the light of the statement: Get the parties out of the RAI. The fact that he cannot be appointed on the Board of Directors of RAI who has just left an elected or governmental office or a party secretariat seems to me to be common sense and shared. By the way, I've been talking to many of you individually, and many of you have told me that it's a good thing. This is also said by constitutionalist Enzo Cheli, according to whom it is not an anti-constitutional norm, but rather a norm to be promoted, because it is the only way not to propose mediocrity in RAI, but competence. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u525	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,7500/184, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,7500/185 to 2,7500/190 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2,750/191, tabled by Senator Pagnoncelli and other senators, until the words "the words" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 2,7500/191 and amendments 2,7500/192 to 2,7500/230 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 2,750/231.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u526	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u527	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u528	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, this is indeed the same subject we have discussed before, both myself and Senators Airola and Scibona. We have said that we do not even think that anyone who sits in this House or in the Chamber of Deputies or is a representative of other fora, such as a Regional Council, can join the RAI Board of Directors. The rapporteur and the government identified the twelve-month threshold, i.e. if someone was Minister 13 months ago, he can join the RAI Board of Directors. We do not ask so much, but at least to bring this threshold to three years, because otherwise this does not make sense. What's the point of talking about a 12-month threshold? To give a concrete example, could the ministers of the Letta government be on the board of directors of RAI or not? What comes to mind, as we're working on, what are we talking about? Holy shit, do we at least have the strength to raise this threshold to 36 months? Otherwise, this doesn't make sense. I invite you to throw your heart a little beyond the obstacle. I and I believe that everyone in the Group thinks that the names you have in your pocket are in conflict with what we are voting now and with the part that provided that they cannot be appointed to the board of directors of the people elected to the Chamber of Deputies or to the Senate or who have been a member of the Government in the previous 12 months. There will be a lot to laugh and wonder when you elect the new board of directors. Maybe you will find out - someone said that thinking wrong is a sin, but often you guess, and I don't say it, but it's a thing said many years ago and repeated so many times - that these people are in conflict with these norms. Personally, I would like to have the glass ball to figure out which names will be made on Tuesday, but if they run counter to these rules, we should feel a little ashamed, at least a little bit: we do not approve these rules because we already have names in our pockets. Can we think of that? Actually, I do. Therefore, if you had some modesty, you could at least expect to change that deadline in 36 months.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u529	I call on Senator Pagnoncelli and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on the first part of amendment 2,750/231, until the words "the word" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 2,7500/231 and amendments 2,7500/232 to 2,7500/254 are therefore excluded. Amendments 2,7500/240, 2,750/251 and 2,7500/275 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,7500/276, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,7500/277, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2 7500/278 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,7500/279, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Scibona and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2,750/280. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,7500/281, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,7500/282 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,7500/283, tabled by Senator Crosio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,7500/284, 2,7500/307 and 2,7500/308 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,7500/315, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,7500/316 and 2,7500/351 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,7500/352, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,750/355.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u530	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u531	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u532	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, we basically ask that the last part of point (f) be deleted, because we basically expect a derogation. You know, every time you read the word "derogacy," we always come to mind - we have said so many times - the derogations made on the Expo and in so many other measures. There is this strange habit, this strange exercise of wanting to derogate from the general rules. Once again, the theme is re-proposed, so I say: if we do not like the norm, let us change it, but let us not always and continuously foresee these derogations; when we do them, it means that the norm we have made or do not like or is wrong. Is it possible that once again we have to provide for derogations from the criteria and ways in which certain things can be done? Why don't we get rid of these things? It really seems to me that we are at ground level and that we do not respect those minimal rules that allow us to feel people simply normal, legislators simply careful to do what is right. Mr President, my speech was merely intended to underline the fact that, in this Parliament, in this Senate (as long as it exists), we are constantly using the exercise of derogation. And since the words "deroga", "exception" or synonyms in the collection of all the laws of Italy and regionals appear 60,000 times, it will be appropriate to start writing laws without making exceptions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u533	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,7500/355, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,7500/356 and 2,7500/359 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,7500/360, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,7500/361 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,7500/362.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u534	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u535	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u536	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, it is envisaged that no person who has been convicted by an irrevocable judgment, or by a judgment of Cassation, cannot become a member of the Board of Directors. We propose with this amendment that this impossibility should also apply in the case of a judgment which has not been brought to trial, as, for example, does the code of ethics of ENEL, just to say one. This too seems to us to be a standard of common sense, given what is happening. Obviously a person is innocent until final judgment, for charity, but at least when we can avoid hypotheses or stains, let's try to do so. We therefore believe that it is appropriate to replace the words "by irrevocable judgment" with the words "and also by a judgment which has not been passed into judgment." This is just to put the famous stakes we were talking about before to make sure that inside the RAI there are simply clean people.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u537	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,750/362, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Scibona and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 2,750/363. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.7500/364.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u538	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u539	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u540	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, even in this case, what I said earlier is true for the CEO. Maybe we ended up in Morpheus' arms and we don't want to remember what the history of our country was. We do not want to remember what it was when a President-in-Office of the Council had three televisions and voted on a law whereby RAI was also divided, directly through revolving doors between Parliament, party secretariats and RAI itself. So, either today you admit that you were wrong to oppose them at that time because they were right (the RAI basically works better this way), or, we decide that those who go to hold such an important office as the CEO of the national public information service are not a gentleman who may come from a competing company, for example, or from political positions, from political parties. I think that's a very common sense rule. In the face of the nation, I ask you why you should not vote on such a proposal; why limit it to a few undersecretaries. Besides, I want to tell you something else. Apart from the fact that these stakes that we are putting will be effective in three years' time, therefore theoretically each of you could be the CEO of RAI (a stake is basically a principle; it does not aim to diminish the role of the parliamentarians, the parliamentarians does the parliamentarians), today the CSM was discussed that an elected magistrate, once out of here, cannot immediately redo the magistrate: there are already measures. Is it clear to everyone that information is another power or not? Or is the information entertainment in the evening, some fiction or some prize game like the parcel game? Is this the RAI? If so, we want this RAI more. We want competent people and to do this we must aim at the professionalism that comes... [[Ironic comments from the AP Group (NDC-UDC)]] ...you can even fuck with me. [[Comments. Recalls of the President]] You are ringing because yesterday you were rescued by one of your own and you are still oppositioning the Justice Commission on Civil Rights. Shame on you! Pagliacci! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini]] They also saved you the President of the Budget Commission, who will be the President again. Shut up! [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u541	Senator Airola, we're all tired.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u542	AIROLA (M5S). I more than you because I gave the heart, the blood on this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We avoid excessive expressions. AIROLA (M5S). The rapporteur and Undersecretary Giacomelli witnessed me. I am proposing an amendment of absolute common sense, which - I repeat - is not unconstitutional, it does not limit your future jobs (even in Mediaset, given the agreements that are being made). I know you don't vote for him. This was the only rule by which you could get out of here and say, "Really, gentlemen, politics will not put your foot in RAI directly, as it always has." Let's remember many cases, the last is Verro, for example, who is still there, the one who sent faxes to Berlusconi saying: No, I can't block Santoro in any way. I'm talking about these people here. If you do not vote on this amendment today, you will either restore or maintain that system there. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u543	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,750/364, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,750/365, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,750/366, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,7500/367, 2,7500/368 and 2,7500/369 have been withdrawn. I call on Senator Scibona and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2,7500/370, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,7500/375 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,750/376, tabled by Senator Crosio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.7500/377.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u544	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u545	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u546	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I had tried to raise my hand earlier, because I wanted to subscribe to Senator Crosio's amendments 2,7500/376 and 2,7500/377. I regret that I could not speak on the previous amendment, which has already been voted on, which asked that those elected should not, in any way, have been appointed politically in the previous ten years. It seems to me quite correct: it is not right that those who go to direct have political links. VOICE BY AP GROUP (NCD-UDC). It has already been voted on. Wake up! [[Ironic comments from PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]] BLUNDO (M5S). Well done, ladies and gentlemen, you have already voted against that. Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, do we want to finish this night or tomorrow morning? BLUNDO (M5S). With amendment 2,7500/377 which has not yet been voted - so, while you are ironic about the previous one, reflected on the current one - you are asking that, at least, this person who has to administer has significant experience in the radio and telecommunications sector. I do not think that anyone who has to deal with something does not even know it, does not even know what kind of functions it has and what might be the right and most appropriate initiatives to strengthen them and to make a better service. On the other hand, it is more appropriate that someone who has already experienced experience within the radio and television sector should be able to make appropriate proposals. There are people who have this kind of experience and it is right that we favour those who have already given so much to radio television, in a correct way, and not those who go there just to ensure service for someone or some political party. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u547	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u548	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u549	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business in order to know the direction of the Presidency on the progress of the proceedings this evening. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The orientation is to work. MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). Mr President, that is the direction of all of us. You're a primus peer for wanting to work. I wanted to know if there will be an interruption to the normal physiological need of dinner or not. Senator Mauro, if you want to go to dinner, ask the Presidency to suspend it and we will do it. I think, however, that perhaps we should see what we can achieve in an hour and then make a decision. MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). Mr President, do not be sensitive. I'm just asking you what is the orientation on the progress of the work. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The point is that no closing time is provided for this sitting and work is being carried out. MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). So without a break? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Mauro, I believe that, rather than discussing the time to stop, it is better to anticipate the closing of a quarter of an hour, because we can succeed. MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). So the normal reasonableness that also responds to physiological needs is not taken into account. [[Happy comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u550	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,7500/377, tabled by Senators Crosio and Blundo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.7500/370.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u551	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u552	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u553	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, we have tabled this sub-amendment because in paragraph 10b the four characteristics which the CEO must possess are reworded, essentially by removing point (b) and point (c), namely the experience in the economic and industrial sector and in the field of reference in which he has achieved positive performance in top positions of responsibility and the authority appropriate to the task and to unify on the basis of reputation and recognition in the reference market. We have not understood why these two points have been eliminated, because we think they are quite acceptable points and I do not understand why they should be removed. With the rewording proposed in point (h) of amendment 2,7500, to which we have tabled sub-amendment 2,7500/378, points (b) and (c) are deleted. I really cannot understand why you want to eliminate them, and this question is addressed to both the rapporteur and the government. We believe that the text that came out of the Commission is better than the proposal made by the rapporteur. So we simply ask you to keep the text as it emerged from the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u554	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,7500/378, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,7500/381 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,7500/382, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,7500/385 to 2,7500/388 have been withdrawn. I call on Senator Pagnoncelli and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on the first part of amendment 2,7500/389, until the words "with the following" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 2,7500/389 and amendments 2,7500/390 to 2,7500/394, amendment 2,7500/396, as well as amendments 2,7500/397 to 2,7500/400 and amendments 2,7500/402, 2,7500/403, 2,7500/405 and 2,7500/406. Amendments 2.7500/395, 2.7500/398, 2.7550/401, 2.7500/404, 2.7500/407, 2.7500/408 and 2.7500/413 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,7500/414, tabled by Senator Scavone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,750/415 and 2,750/416 have fallen due to the absence of the proposer. Amendments 2,7500/417 to 2,7500/430 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2,7500, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.221, 2.222a, 2.223, 2.10, 2.228, 2.229, 2.230, 2.232, 2.244, 2.245 and 2.88 are therefore excluded. Amendments 2.224, 2.225, 2226, 2.227, 2.231, 2.233, 2.234, 2.235, 2.236, 2.237, 2.238, 2.239, 2.240, 2.241, 2.242, 2.243, 2.246, 2.247, 2.248 and 2.249 have been withdrawn. I call on Senator Gasparri to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,250. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Gasparri to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.251. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.252, 2.253 and 2.254 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.255, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2.256, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators, until the words "five years" are mentioned. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 2.256 and subsequent amendment 2.257 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2.258, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators, up to the word "television." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 2.258 and amendment 2.259 are therefore excluded. Amendments 2.260 to 2.263 have been withdrawn. Amendments 2.264, 2.265 and 2.267 are foreclosed by the adoption of amendment 2.7500. Amendments 2.266, 2.268 and 2.269 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.270.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u555	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u556	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u557	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, here we return to the previous speech, namely the characteristics that the members of the Management Board must have. I understand that the rapporteur wanted to give the opposite opinion, because in theory there is a contrast to the characteristics of the law in force, but let us return to the first point, namely that the members of the board of directors must have specific characteristics, because they must consider and identify the role of RAI in the future. Why not then think that they should, for example, be subject to specific managerial experience, in public or private enterprises, or experts in the audiovisual production area with at least five years of managerial experience in the broadcasting sectors and activities. Why not? That sounds like really common sense to me. Or they could be subject to technical-scientific skills that have gained at least managerial experience in public or private enterprises. In short, we believe that the members of the board of directors must have specific experiences, considering that they go to head RAI, not just any company. A construction company is not the same as RAI, nor are ANAS or Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane or any other public company. Each company has specific characteristics: can we ever think that directing ANAS and directing RAI is the same thing? We think not and therefore we believe that certain specific characteristics are necessary, because we need to know well the environment that must be governed: how else can we have a vision? How can we think that the president of ANAS can do one who does not have a specific competence, but who perhaps, even with all due respect, is competent in philosophy, for example? For goodness sake, worthy people, with great capacity and level, but perhaps you need to have a vision of what an infrastructure is, to give an example. Why, then, is this example not appropriate as regards the members of the RAI Board of Directors? We continue to ask ourselves this, because once again, as we have already said, we are faced with the appointment of the new members of the board of directors on Tuesday. We've said this before: God forbid anyone who may be sitting in this House or in the House should be appointed to the RAI board of directors, because we do not think that is the case. Once someone would have called it the political opportunity not to go through those sliding doors that Senator Airola told you about earlier. So, if we think that this action is not correct, we think it is much more correct to identify people of great capacity and quality, precisely because they need to know the market in which they operate. I take a trivial example: how can you imagine evaluating the editorial line on scientific programs someone who has never seen a documentary or imagine how RAI should develop in the field of cable communications? We have already said that the technological transformation related to fiber optics will bring Italy in a different condition and RAI cannot fail to participate in this challenge. So how can we think that on the RAI's board of directors there is no one with specific skills in this field? We have already talked about Netflix's landing in Italy and we have already said that in this country it has never been possible to develop a cable television because there was conflict with that gentleman, with that being called Silvio Berlusconi, who had private televisions and that, as has already been said clearly by the members of my Group, it has also been appropriate of RAI doing the "ace pigliattutto": from Campania I allow myself to use this expression, because this has been done. How, then, can we put a stop to this, if we do not choose people of high quality and competence, of high and specific capacity, who have not played a role in this Parliament? There are probably some very worthy people in this Parliament, maybe some outside the 5 Star Movement, for Christ's sake, but is it possible to think that a person who has played a role here as a legislator will then be running the RAI? Senator Airola has told you well about the power that RAI has in influencing citizens, so it is good that the functions of those who have to legislate and those who have to do something else, which is the cultural change of this country, are deeply detached. That is why we believe that the characteristics that the members of the Management Board must have must be specific; perhaps not exclusive, we have talked about this with the rapporteur and with the Government. It's okay that they're not exclusive, but some solid poles are needed, because otherwise, as usual, we are in this magnum sea in which everyone splashes. However, since we don't like to splash, because we know that you can splash even in the mud, perhaps it is good that these fish swim in the free sea and are cleaned in clean water. So, in order to be able to splash in clean water, you have to make sure that the water is really clean and that these people are fish; not piscitielli (as they say from my side, of the straw piscitielli), but important fish that can feel deeply free: to feel free, they must be people of great quality and have specific skills, because otherwise the shark will come on duty to eat them. We want the members of the board to be strong, authoritative people and not to be servants of someone who tells them what to do, otherwise the RAI will never be free. This is the problem of giving specific characteristics to the members of the board of directors: to be free, so that they have the strength to say no to someone who blows them in the ear asking them to do this pleasure or this one, because the pleasure they do only to the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u558	I hope you've said everything there was to say at this point. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.270, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Gasparri to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.271. (The vote was followed). [[Senator Puglia points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator Puglia, the vote is open. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] The vote was already open. You will make it after your explanation of vote. AIROLA (M5S). You're in a hurry to go home. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have the disposition to be able to harmonize the times. I'm letting you talk without any limitation. SANTANGELO (M5S). Times aren't contingent, they're free! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. They are not free; they can be arranged to allow the final vote tomorrow morning at 9.30 a.m. SANTANGELO (M5S). Can I talk to you? I have to make an explanation of vote. Do I have ten minutes or not? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If the times are not harmonized, Senator Santangelo, and since I have allowed everyone, even two or three per Group, to speak so far, I hope that we do not take advantage of them. SANTANGELO (M5S). It's an explanation of vote. I'm not taking advantage of it. Let Senator Puglia speak. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll cancel the vote and give you a minute, Senator Puglia.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u559	Thank you, Mr President, as you can see, this is the first time I have spoken today.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u560	Senator Puglia, don't get involved in the controversy.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u561	PUGLIA (M5S). I have made absolutely no controversy at all, but I am obliged, after Senator Cioffi's remarks, to make some comments on Amendment 2,271, tabled by Senator Gasparri, which I would also like to ask if I could subscribe to his amendment. Yes, Senator Gasparri's amendment: it takes some liver, but in reality there is something interesting within the amendment, which is not trivial, because in this article it actually talks about the appointment of the members of the board of directors and, in the current article, it is expected that the appointment is carried out in such a way as to ensure the presence of gender. Senator Gasparri, rightly, asks for the suppression of the expression \the presence of gender Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â the presence of gender Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â I really can't handle it, since it's 2015.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u562	Senator Puglia, do we now want to open a debate on the balance of gender presence? [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Among other things, I am sorry, Senator Gasparri, the rapporteur did not do so, but I wanted to suggest it to him: since there is the proposal for rewording amendment 2.274, as well as the call for the withdrawal of Senator Malan's amendment 2.273 and 2.272, I believe that the point is the same as that accepted by the rapporteur. You're gonna pick it up? Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, I withdraw amendment 2.271, Mr President, on the basis of this proposal for the rewording of amendment 2.274. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do you withdraw amendment 2.272, Senator Malan? MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Puglia, finish. PUGLIA (M5S). Of course, I agree with Amendment No 2.271. PRESIDENT. - The debate is But no, it does not: there is a subsequent amendment which was reworded and accepted by the rapporteur, on 2.274. PUGLIA (M5S). Let's see how it's been reworded. The important thing is that we put an end to this mess of people's intelligence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is All right, the Presidency notes that you are in favour of amendment 2.271. Please conclude. PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, it is vital that we go every time to reason on this separation between the sexes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Puglia, we have worked quietly until now, we still have 140 pages of amendments before us. Opening a debate on ludopathy seemed to me to be something that would create the excessive involvement of this House. Now, since this issue is raised in every measure and there has been a solution shared by majority and opposition, let us not reopen the issue of RAI reform. PUGLIA (M5S). The important thing is not to discriminate against either sex.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u563	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u564	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u565	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Mr President, I am sorry, but I thought that in an explanation of vote everyone could choose the arguments he wants.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u566	If you do not talk about the subject which is the subject of the debate, I can call you back and then take the floor. BULGARRELLI (M5S). We were talking about gender balance within the Management Board: it was not an issue that had nothing to do with the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Like last week's. Amendments 2.272 and 2.273 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.274 (text 2), tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.271 is therefore excluded. Amendments 2.275 to 2.290 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,291, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.292 to 2.299 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,300, tabled by Senator Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2301 tabled by Senator Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.302 has been withdrawn. Amendments 2,303, 2,305, 2,304, 2,314 and 2,315 are precluded by the adoption of amendment 2,7500. Amendments 2,306 to 2,322 have been withdrawn. Senator Cioffi, there is a call for withdrawal on Amendment 2,323 because a favourable opinion has been given on the following. You're gonna pick it up?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u567	I understand the rapporteur's request. In fact, this is a part that is not closely linked to the next. We discussed this with the rapporteur. Here we return to the representation of political parties. That's the same point we talked about earlier. I don't want to make it long, but here is the fact that those in a party cannot become members of the board of directors and there is a whole part about the conflict of interest. I'm not taking him back.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u568	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,323, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Scibona, do you accept the rewording of amendment 2.324? SCIBONA (M5S). Is it possible to summarize it quickly?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u569	The opinion is in favour, provided that, for reasons of coordination, the deletion of paragraph 10-a of Article 49 of the first paragraph of the single text is envisaged as the managing director is a member of the Management Board. Since we say that they are causes of forfeiture of the managing director and since the managing director is already managing director there is this coordination. But bear in mind that Amendment 2,324 is good in substance. SCIBONA (M5S). I accept the rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u570	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u571	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u572	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). As it is a delicate issue, I would like to see the reformulation. We still have Article 6 to vote on the CEO and the CEO. I would like to see this text because, in accordance with the applicable law, the Director-General is not a board member. Then, if he becomes one, we'll see if he can become one instead of whom. As I think there are some things that are not precise, I would like to see the text materially. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We're conveying your text. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). It would be better to put it aside for a moment, because there are a lot of issues. We could proceed with the other amendments in the meantime. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. With foreclosures and withdrawals there are no other amendments. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Proceed, but then you will see that the problem will arise later on on Article 6. I warned you.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u573	We will use the final coordination to settle the two texts. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.324 (text 2) tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,325, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,326 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,327, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,328, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,329 to 2,346 have been withdrawn. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 2,347 is impervious. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,348, tabled by Senator Fornaro and other senators, subsequently withdrawn and made by Senator Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.349, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,350, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,351 to 2,357 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.359.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u574	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u575	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u576	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, who knows who you have in mind as CEO, since you did not vote for the exclusion of politics. Know that, even by approving that previous amendment, a good result could have been achieved. Amendment 2.359 instead requires the appointment of the Chairman of the Management Board to be carried out by the Board within the framework of its members. It is expected, however, that the favourable opinion, expressed by a majority of two thirds of its members, will be obtained from the Parliamentary Commission for the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services. We wanted to abolish this Commission, but since it is decided not to make the Management Board independent, it must of course be kept alive. It is clear, in fact, that the more one colonizes himself, through party infiltration or, as I said before, of low-level and mediocre profiles (which are generally those who make a career), the more necessary - at least - a very strong parliamentary control. This will certainly increase the "impedance" of the board of directors and the managing director in carrying out their tasks. However, having no possibility of independence, it is clear that this is how control is carried out. The amendment in question is moving in this direction, also because, from a certain point of view, as I have heard very often repeating in vogue the so-called Gasparri law (so abjured by the President of the Council Renzi), today we have to counteract this power with a parliamentary power. We didn't like it: we wanted a truly independent board of directors and we wouldn't need so many hats, controls, blocks and consultations. It worked well, like a real, working company. Evidently few people here have any idea what it's like to be the CEO of an impressive company like RAI. We need to take a step back. We have already made our observations on the vote limited to one. The amendment provides for a two-thirds majority. It is true that the board of directors, even if it intervened (because it could decide whether or not to confirm the appointment of the managing director), would still be in the hands of the majority. We have already seen it because, out of seven members, six good or bad members are appointed by politics (two by the Government, two by the House and two by the Senate). We have already seen that with the vote limited to one we can, if we are in the majority and if the majority decides it, take all or almost all members. So in the end it is not a problem for Renzi, in his vision as principal of the school, imagining a Plenipotentiary also in RAI, that the CEO can be confirmed by his own board of directors. A faithful majority of the rest already has it: today it has raised the ridge a little, but who knows. The other aspect is the only control that can be opposed to all this: the RAI Supervisory Commission. For God's sake, we were lucky enough to have absolutely worthy presidents in the Commission, but there were also unworthy people who made sure that in any case the Bulgarian edict passed and that in the end politics went beyond its borders and came to work on the editorial line that RAI must have, so also on the conductors and evidently also on the last of the goalkeepers of that company. Amendment 2,359, a bit in the wake of what some of my colleagues were proposing, contains a limitation to the premier's overpower. I make an announcement: in my opinion it will come out sooner or later, because even in the House you said that you will reopen the speech, repeating that this is a law that will probably disappear into thin air, because in three years who knows what situation we will be in. After all, it is only interested that the Director-General takes over the powers of the CEO: at the end of the day this is what interests him. However, if true democratic control still makes sense, we note that Italy would be the only country to have the direct CEO expression of the Premier, the Government, the Presidency of the Council, which we have repeated until exhaustion. This can of course also be constitutional according to your advisors, who perhaps are those of Porcellum, the Giovanardi-Fini law and all the scumbags who have passed through Parliament and who then turned out to be unconstitutional after years, even if at the moment they seemed absolutely lawful. Well, this is one of those cases there. Since we copy so much from Europe, it is clear that in Europe we are the only ones who choose this path. We're also the only ones who still have another anomaly. In this regard, I say to you: look, because that is why we proposed absolute independence from Parliament and from the parties. In Italy we continue to have an anomaly that no one has solved in the last twenty years, that of a former President of the Council, currently still at the head of a large party (in fading, but still a party), which owns television. This has obviously been forgotten, at least in this Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u577	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,359 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,360 and 2,361 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2,362, tabled by Senators Mineo and Tocci, to the words 'n'. 103.................................................................................................................................... (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 2.362 and amendment 2.363 are therefore not included. Amendments 2.364 and 2.365 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.366, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2,367 tabled by Senator Cociancich. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.368 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.369.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u578	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u579	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u580	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, 21 years have passed since 1994. I remember well how the left, in the middle of the Berlusconi empire, said that one had to learn from him to defeat him. In 2003 Violante made a statement in the Chamber of Deputies, making known to all Italians or at least to those who follow, how the left learned. We here now, with our amending proposals, are perhaps showing extreme innocence, because we are asking you to unlearn, to remove your hands from that fundamental instrument which is television control, control of information. It would actually be a huge loss for you, now that you are placing your control over all fields, because the design is unique, control, and this is just another piece of the puzzle, as well as constitutional reform and electoral law. As I have had the opportunity to say, in the first Commission on Monday, with the reforms you are doing on school, health and work, you will no longer have the consent: you will absolutely have to manipulate and control information in order to maintain and hold power and control over everything. You have learned this and learned it very well: you have passed your teacher. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] However, I hope that the Italians, through a few citizens who have entered the institutions, will be able to see all this. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u581	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,369, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,370, 2,371 and 2,372 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.373.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u582	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u583	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u584	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Amendment 2,373 seeks to avoid that, as the text provides, the delegations to the President are limited to certain matters, with the possibility for the Management Board, if it considers it, to entrust other delegations to the President. I believe that it is more appropriate for the Council to be able, if necessary, to entrust the President with other delegations. That is the point of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u585	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.373 tabled by Senator Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,374, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,375 to 2,385 have been withdrawn. Amendments 2,386 and 2,387 are foreclosed by the adoption of amendment 2,750. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.15 tabled by Senators Scavone and Davico. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.388.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u586	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u587	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u588	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I address my colleagues in the majority to tell them that they sometimes have an opportunity to repent, which they never do. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] With this amendment by Senator Crosio, which I ask you to subscribe, ladies and gentlemen, you have once again the opportunity to vote in favour of a certain approach, that is to say, by putting the whole of the RAI board of directors who are professionally able to manage it in a free and competent way and, above all, people who have not held political positions. So you have to let us know whether or not you are willing to free information and with the vote you will give on this amendment you will confirm once again whether you are or are not. I would therefore urge you to think and vote appropriately. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u589	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u590	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u591	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, Senator Blundo has asked to be able to sign the amendment at my first signature. I would like to remind my colleague, who, to my great pleasure, marries our cause, that our draft RAI reform law is the only one to predict that the members of the board of directors should not have held political positions in any capacity during the ten years prior to the appointment. This is contrary to your bill, which provided for only seven years. [[Comments and ironic applause from the M5S Group]] I welcome this approach by my colleague Mr Blundo and I am pleased to welcome his signature with open arms.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u592	Don't get too excited, Senator Crosio.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u593	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u594	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u595	Senator Barani, I remind you that there are still more than 100 votes to be taken. Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, until now we have always been silent. I am pleased to hear that they do not yet know the difference between political nature and party nature. If anything, they must use the term "party nature" and not write that they have never made politics. Each of us makes politics in our lives, for example all citizens do it when they go to vote. So they also have cultural ignorance. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] TAVERNA (M5S). Talk to Crosio: it is an amendment of the League!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u596	I thank all my colleagues for the help you are giving me. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,388, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,389 to 2,393 have been withdrawn. Amendments 2,394 and 2,395 are foreclosed by the adoption of amendment 2,750. Amendments 2.117 and 2.396 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.118, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,397, 2,399 and 2,416 are foreclosed by the adoption of amendment 2,7500. Amendment 2,398 and amendments 2,400 to 2,415 and 2,417 to 2,420 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of amendment 2.421.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u597	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u598	He has the faculty, but very quickly, Senator Cioffi CIOFFI (M5S). I will speak very quickly, Mr President. This is another of the amendments we discussed. Among the many things that have also been included in other amendments, we asked that each candidate should attach his or her curriculum vitae to the application and a summary of his or her vision of the public service. It seems a small thing, but it is a good thing that a candidate to the board of directors explains to us that we should then vote on it (always according to the law), what his vision of the public radio and television service is, so that we can be made available, for when we should vote on it tomorrow - if this law is ever passed - on how he intends to carry out his mandate. This is a small part of this much more complex amendment, but it is likely to be discussed in the House of Deputies. However, we ask that it be approved as it is.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u599	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2,421, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators, up to the words "curriculum vitae". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 2.421 and amendment 2.422 are therefore excluded. Amendment 2.423 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.424, tabled by Senator Fasano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,425 to 2,430 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.431 tabled by Senator Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.432, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,433 to 2,440 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 2.441 tabled by Senator Fasano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.442 to 2.446 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.447, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.448, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.449 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2,450, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.451 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.452, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,453 and 2,454 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.455, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,456 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,457, 2,458 and 2,459 have been withdrawn. Let us move on to amendment 2,460, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,460, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,461 tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.462 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,463 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,464 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,465 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,466 to 2,479 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,480, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.481 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,482 tabled by Senator Palermo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,483 tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,484, 2,485 and 2,486 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,487 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.488 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,489 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,490, 2,491 and 2,492 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.108, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.144, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,493 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,494 tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,495, tabled by Senator Cociancich and other senators, identical to amendment 2,496, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,497, 2,498 and 2,500 are therefore incorporated, with the exception of Amendments 2,502, 2,503, 2,504, 2,509, 2,512 and 2,518. Amendments 2,499, 2,501, 2,505, 2,506, 2,507, 2,508, 2,510, 2,511, 2,513, 2,514, 2,515, 2,516, 2,517, 2,519, 2,520, 2,521 and 2,522 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,523 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.524, tabled by Senator Carraro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,525, 2,149, 2,52, 2,527, 2,151 and 2,528 are precluded by the adoption of amendment 2,750. Amendments 2,526 and 2,529 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,530, tabled by Senator Palermo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 2,531 is impervious. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,532 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,155, tabled by Senators Scavone and Davico. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,157 and 2,533 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,534 tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.535 to 2.539 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,540 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.541, 2.542 and 2.543 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.544, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.545 and 2.546 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2,547 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia, until the words " (a) " are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 2.547 and amendments 2.549, 2.550, 2.551, 2.559 and 2.560 are therefore excluded. Amendments 2.548, 2.552, 2.553, 2.554, 2.555, 2.556 and 2.557 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2,561 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia, up to the words'(b) '. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 2,561 and amendments 2,562, 2,563, 2,564, 2,566 and 2,567 are therefore not included. Amendments 2.565 and 2.568 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,569 tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,570, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2,571 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia, until the words "directives" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 2.571 and amendment 2.572 are therefore not included. Amendment 2.573 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,574 tabled by Senator Fasano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2,575 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia, until the words'(c) '. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 2.575 and amendments 2.576 and 2.577 are therefore excluded. Amendment 2.578 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,579 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,580, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,581 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,582 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,583 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2,584, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia, until the words "company" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 2.584 and amendment 2.585 are therefore excluded. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,586 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,587 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2,588, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia, until the words "administrative" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 2.588 and amendment 2.589 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,590 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2,591, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia, until the word 'network'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 2.591 and amendment 2.592 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,593 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,594 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,595 tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.596, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.597, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.598, tabled by Senator Cociancich, identical to Amendment 2.599, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2,600, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia, up to the words'(d) '. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 2,600 and amendments 2,602, 2,601 and 2,603 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.604, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.605, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u600	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u601	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u602	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to express my appreciation to Senator Buemi who has given up his position as rapporteur and to announce the withdrawal of the amendments to my signature, because the text we are voting on has become so incomprehensible and full of contradictions that it cannot be amended, frankly: it is only to be closed. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u603	Thank you. I take note of that. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.606, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.607, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2.608, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia, until the words "the same" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 2.608 and amendment 2.609 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.610, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.611, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.612, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.613, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.614, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.615, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia, identical to amendment 2.616, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.617 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.618, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.619, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.620, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.621.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u604	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u605	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u606	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I withdraw amendments 2.621 to 2.628 and Amendment 2.630.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u607	Thank you, Senator. I take note of that. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.629, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Airola to comment on the rewording proposed by the rapporteur of amendment 2.631.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u608	Mr President, I welcome the rapporteur's proposal and, if I may, make an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u609	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u610	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, the proposal for a rewording is accepted. I now make a brief explanation of vote to tell you about the transparency plan. In recent years we have asked RAI many times about the data, for example, how much money is given to the fiction industry and to which companies. Do you believe that they have never given me, even the past ones, on the grounds that they are rather unbelievable, such as the fact that RAI is a competing company in a free market regime? No. RAI is a company that receives two billion public money and continues to water, at least for fiction, a small circuit of society, the famous happy five. We want to know some data, even on a confidential basis, that will enable us to monitor, as the RAI Supervisory Committee does, how RAI is spending citizens' money, especially when problems are identified, as in the case of fiction. Imagine that RAI gives 190 million euros, mainly to five companies, with even poor results. Without removing anything from Bernabei's LUX Vide and various fictions such as "Don Matteo," these are products that, objectively, are not saleable, even considering that we are talking about media companies. The only way to limit this damage is transparency. And from the first day that I arrived at the RAI Supervisory Committee, I asked for everything, even past things that no longer even entered into possible conflicts of interest.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u611	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.631 (text 2), tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.632 is therefore incorporated, with the exception of amendments 2.634, 2.635, 2.638, 2.6640, 2.641, 2.643, 2.644, 2.646, 2.648, 2.650, 2.652, 2.653, 2.654, 2.655, 2.657, 2.658, 2.659, 2.660, 2.661, 2.662, 2.664, 2.665, 2.667, 2.668, 2.670 and 2.671. Amendments 2.633, 2.636, 2.637, 2.639, 2.642, 2.645, 2.647, 2.649, 2.651, 2.656, 2.663, 2.666 and 2.669 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.672, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u612	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u613	I shall cancel the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u614	You have it, Senator Crimes. CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, there are too many lights going on, as if the whole House were present, when it was half empty.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u615	Senator Crimes, I believe that some senator, in good faith, took advantage of Senator Airola's explanation of vote to get away briefly. Now, however, I invite the senators present to remove the "balls" from empty positions. Time has run out and those who wanted to come back to this House must have come back already. With the new vote we will immediately be aware of the actual presences. I would like to refer again to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.672, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 2.673.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u616	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u617	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u618	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, we have long discussed and tried to specify this passage which is important to us and concerns the members of the Management Board. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We have discussed it "long" before, but now we have to do it briefly. CIOFFI (M5S). Yes, Mr President, in fact, I was referring to the fact that in previous hours we have said that it is essential that the members of the Management Board should not be persons sitting in this House, as we have said, or in the House. This, as we have already said, has probably not been accepted by the House because someone - and we will see what happens on Tuesday - is planning to vote on a name that could be that of a member of this House or that of the House. If, however, we do not want to do this for the members of the Management Board, the amendment before us asks you to do it at least for the CEO: let us ensure that at least he has not held elective public office. I think it is really the minimum trade union, as is often said, since then, when this law is passed, it will have all those famous superpowers: let us see that we approve it in this branch of Parliament; then I want to see what we are going to do with the position of Director-General, who will have the powers of the CEO, to someone who was sitting in this Chamber. The problem is that if, on Tuesday, when we go to vote, at least the law passed by this branch of Parliament does not foresee it, at least it will have saved its face. We therefore ask that we have the courage to approve this: at least, when it happens that the CEO will be someone who has held elective positions in the seven years before the appointment, this will be contrary to what this branch of Parliament has approved. We are really talking about the minimum, that is the fact that the managing director - therefore the general manager, who will have the powers of the managing director - is not one who sits in here. Mr President, I think that this is really the least we owe to the correctness of thought and to the fact that we are consistent between what we do and what we say. So let's try to put it, this little stake for the CEO. That is what this amendment says, nothing more and nothing less. I therefore think it is appropriate to vote on this amendment, because it is indeed appropriate to vote on it: I do not want to repeat myself, Mr President, but the thought of meeting with a Director-General like myself, Senator Cioffi - which, of course, will never happen, but I say this out of absurdity, not to mention the names of others - terrifies me somewhat. If it terrifies me, I think it will terrify anyone in this House. I therefore think it is appropriate that no one should feel so terrified by this idea of jumping and perhaps unhealthy and that this stake should therefore be placed. I want to see what it is with then Tuesday, when we know the names, the board of directors will be able to choose as managing director - indeed, as general manager, because we are always referring to the law in force - a person who sits in this Chamber or in that of the House. I therefore ask all the members of this Parliament to have the courage to say "I do not want to do so and, since I do not want to do so, I am voting in favour of this amendment." [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u619	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2.673, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators, until the words 'in charge' in the Minutes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 2.673 and amendments 2.674 and 2.675 are therefore excluded. Amendments 2,676, 2,677, 2,678, 2,679, 2,680, 2,683, 2,685, 2,687, 2,689, 2,692, 2,694, 2,695, 2,696, 2,698, 2,699, 2,700, 2,701, 2,703, 2,704, 2,708, 2,713, 2,714, 2,715, 2,716, 2,717, 2,718, 2,719, 2,720, 2,721, 2,722, 2,726, 2,727, 2,728, 2,729, 2,733, 2,735, 2,736, 2,739, 2,739, 2,740, 2,742, 2,743, 2,744, 2,745, 2,747, 2,749, 2,750, 2,751, 2,752, 2,753 and 2,754 have been withdrawn. Amendments 2,681, 2,682, 2,684, 2,686, 2,688, 2,690, 2,691, 2,693, 2,697, 2,702, 2,705, 2,706, 2,709, 2,710, 2,712, 2,723, 2,724, 2,730, 2,731, 2,732, 2,734 and 2,748 are precluded by the adoption of amendment 2,750. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,755, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,180, tabled by Senators Scavone and Davico. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,756 and 2,757 have been withdrawn. I call on Senator Scibona and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,758, tabled by Mr Scibona and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,759 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,760.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u620	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u621	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u622	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I withdraw Amendments 2,760, 2,761, 2,762, 2,767, 2,768, 2,769, 2,770 and 2,773.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u623	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2,763, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,764 to 2,770 have been withdrawn. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2,771, tabled by Senator Airola and other Senators, until the words "later years" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 2,771 and amendment 2,772 are therefore excluded. Amendment 2,773 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,774, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Malan, has Amendment 2,775 been withdrawn? [[Senator Malan's consent.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u624	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u625	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u626	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, you have addressed Senator Malan, but Amendment 2,775 is signed by Senators Minzolini and Gasparri.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u627	Until now, it was Senator Malan who informed me of the withdrawn amendments of the Senators of the Group. [[Senator Minzolini's consent.]] I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.197, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,776, 2.777 and 2.778 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,779, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,780, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,781, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendments previously provided for in Article 3 which have been moved to this stage, as requested by Senator D'Ali. I am referring to Amendments 3,270, 3.7, 3.214, 3.269, 2.782, 2.783 and finally Amendment 2,784.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u628	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u629	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u630	SCIBONA (M5S). Mr President, I repeat what I said earlier. We are in a disastrous economic situation, I do not say where we have the pieces, so it would be advisable at least to put a roof. We have always had as a limit the remuneration of the first President of the Court and it seems to me that it is already enough: it is not necessarily necessary to waste the money, also because in the end it affects all the rest of the advice, the first women - even if they are not women - and therefore we are going to spend a lot of money and, of course, the budget goes wild. I keep hoping that there's a motu proprio that will click on the green button, because people outside anyway have no money and do not live.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u631	Senator Cioffi, do you accept the rewording proposed by the rapporteur on Amendment 2,783? CIOFFI (M5S). I accept that, Mr President, although I would obviously have preferred the original text, but at this time we are all magnanimous and good. PRESIDENT. - The debate is If he gives you a favourable opinion, the rapporteur will rather be good.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u632	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u633	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u634	AIROLA (M5S). This is in line with the fact that administrative and supervisory bodies can be expected to have a limit, because recently they have not had it, indeed lately they have had it the Director-General and not all its executives, the host of people who have carried it along. The fact that we ask to exclude from the roof the managing director can make jump, because it may surprise that the 5 Star Movement asks that the compensation be set free. The reason is that we want him to be a good, competent and capable person to get his hands on this juniper that is the RAI. To do this, we must have the opportunity to have a person on the market who is perhaps very capable, always in our vision of politics, that I do not know if it is that of the gasparrian policy of ancient memory. We will be transeunte, but be quiet: in two thousand years you will still have Gasparri, if you continue like this. However, having said that, it is important that the MEF and the President-in-Office of the Council, i.e. those who will then seek a suitable figure, have the opportunity to pay it properly, because RAI is a serious patient and needs a great doctor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u635	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u636	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u637	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we must not be confused between populism and issues of rules. We have established in two successive decisions of the financial laws of 2011 and 2014 that publicly controlled companies were subject to a ceiling of remuneration, except those listed on the stock exchange or authorized to issue bond instruments on regulated financial markets. The RAI has always been inside the roofed subsidiaries, then it happened that in the last year the RAI has issued bonds and this would make it escape the ceiling of compensation and liberalize it according to the discretion of the assembly. I believe that, having given absolutely publicistic nature, reiterated also with this reform, to RAI and being the RAI under absolute control of the public administration of the treasure, we must not give RAI, just because it made a bond issue, the possibility to escape the roof established for all other companies under public control. This is the subject that we have also raised in the Budget Committee, on which we have been discussing for a long time. As I recall, the Budget Committee was absolutely oriented towards keeping the RAI in the ranks of publicly controlled companies, thus subject to the ceiling of compensation. It's not about whether it's good or bad or what people think about it, but it's a matter of rules and since when we set the rules, RAI was part of that prediction, I think it has to stay there. I therefore believe that it should not take advantage, just because it has issued a bond, of this escapism in order to release the obligation to maintain the ceiling laid down for all other publicly controlled companies. That is why I think that colleagues want to consider, beyond the easy populisms, Amendment 2,784. I would like to understand from the rapporteur why there is no favourable opinion. Is there the government's will to release the RAI from the ceiling of compensation?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u638	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,270, tabled by Senators Scibona and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.7, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators, essentially identical to amendments 3.214, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators, and 3.269, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Scibona and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 2.782. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,783 (text 2), tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,784, tabled by Senators D'Alì and Bignami. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,785, 2,787, 2,791 and 2,792 have been withdrawn. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 2,786, 2,788, 2,789 and 2,790 are impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,793.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u639	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u640	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u641	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I withdraw Amendments 2,793, 2,794, 2,796, 2,798, 2,803 and 2,844.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u642	Amendments 2,793 to 2,796 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,797, tabled by Senators Mineo and Tocci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,798 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,799, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2,800, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators, up to the words "related compensations". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 2,800 and amendment 2,801 are therefore excluded. Amendments 2.802, 2.803 and 2.804 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2,805 tabled by Senator Romano, which is essentially identical to Amendment 2,806, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.807 to 2.833 and amendments 2.841, 2.843, 2.844, 2.845 and 2.847 have been withdrawn. Amendments 2.834 to 2.840 and amendments 2.842 and 2.846 are foreclosed by the adoption of amendment 2.7500. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.848, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,849 and 2,850 are foreclosed by the adoption of amendment 2,750. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2,851, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia, until the words "otherwise" are stated. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 2.851 and amendment 2.852 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.222, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini, identical to amendment 2.853, tabled by Senators Airola and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.854 and 2.855 have been withdrawn. I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agendas and amendments to add additional articles after Article 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u643	I am against the G2.100 and G2.101 agendas. As far as the agenda is concerned, although the content is interesting, the opinion is opposed, as there is the problem of devolution of funds to protect the heritage. The opinion on the agenda was also opposed by Mr G2,103. Since a fund is identified for the financing of activities identified as cultural, thanks to the resources from the canon and commercials, we do not believe it can be accepted. The opinion was opposed to the amendments aimed at adding additional articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u644	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u645	Senator Crosio, do you insist on voting on the agenda for your signature? CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.100, presented by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.101, presented by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would ask Senator Bignami if she insists on voting on the agenda for G2.102.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u646	Mr President, having noted the rapporteur's appreciation of the content of the agenda, I would like to know how it is directed towards a possible rewording (at least for the child section) or a change in the agenda to accept as a recommendation. I remember that we own 60% of the artistic goods.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u647	Senator Ranucci, what's your opinion?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u648	I would remind you that in Article 5 there is an amendment by the rapporteur which pays attention to minors in broadcasts. On this agenda we are talking more about funds or resources that can be reserved for these purposes, on which we are certainly in agreement. However, we do not believe that the government can be committed to finding funds using resources from RAI advertising.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u649	I'm not talking about advertising in general, I'm talking about the one where minors appear. The use of minors is a bit exploited and, as a form of compensation, you can then...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u650	Senator Bignami, the RAI budget is not part of our budget. We're discussing other people's money. I understand very well the intention with which the agenda was proposed, but I recommend that it be withdrawn. I think there is a chance to reformulate it more correctly, but without the numbers. Senator Bignami, do you insist on voting on the agenda? BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Yeah, the next one, too. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.102, presented by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.103, presented by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 2 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.0,200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.200, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u651	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u652	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u653	SCIBONA (M5S). Mr President, since Senator Ciampolillo is missing, they are telling me that there is a ball in Senator Gibiino's voting position.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u654	Let's check it out. Maybe there are two and not one! [[Some senators remove a paper ball from a voting post. Applause from the M5S Group.]] Everyone can start a piece of paper and get stuck right in the hole: these things happen every day. [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u655	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u656	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u657	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr. President, excuse me for the time. Pursuant to Rule 118 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I would kindly ask you to cancel the last vote, because of the ball inserted in the hole of the voting position.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u658	The vote was already closed and, therefore, I am unable to... SANTANGELO (M5S). You voted, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I can't certify it. SANTANGELO (M5S). If you don't want to cancel it, if you take responsibility for it and put it to the record. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us put to the record that I had the ball removed and that this vote will take place without it. SANTANGELO (M5S). So you got a vote and it's registered. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't worry, my shoulders are big, Senator Santangelo. [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.201, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.201, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.202, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.202, tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.0.203.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u659	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u660	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u661	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to ask briefly for explanations of what I referred to in the illustration. We have amended amendment 2.0.203 on the Council for participation precisely in order to respond to the comments already made in the Commission. In paragraph 6: (...) Participation in the Council shall not give entitlement to remuneration, presence tokens, reimbursements or any amounts denominated. (...) (...) the company RAI S.p.A. must provide with the human, instrumental and financial resources available under applicable legislation, without causing new and increased burdens on public finance. Explain Article 81 to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u662	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.203, tabled by Senators Cervellini and Barozzino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.0.204 has fallen due to the absence of the proposers. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 6,500, in the amended text.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u663	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u664	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u665	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, it seems to me that this is the last amendment and, therefore, we are happy with one final explanation of vote. Let us return to a point on which we discussed earlier, namely the transitional provision that allows the Director-General (named by the law of a person present in this Chamber, who has assumed his paternity) to have the characteristics, functions and tasks of the CEO, as will be reported by this law, provided that he ever sees the light. This is something we tried to explain earlier, when we were talking about sub-amendments, trying to counter the rule because we think it is incorrect. You give someone something, while there is someone else who takes something: it is the classic example of partition that the government wanted to do. We have allowed what once was the majority in Parliament to elect the board of directors with the current law, but preserving the characteristics of the managing director, which will be carried out by the general manager. We have tried to say that we do not believe this type of partition to be truly correct and fair. You can't understand why you have to pass a law and just take a piece of it. Maybe that little bit is the thing we're most interested in, having the famous superman who can do the good and the bad weather, maybe even the middle, with the superpowers we're giving him. The problem then, Mr President, is precisely this: we have already said a great deal that it could happen - we shall see it in the next few days - that becoming members of the Management Board are elected people in Parliament or in the regional councils - who knows - but in any case people who hold a political office. This is already in itself a vulnus, which we have tried to explain to the House, but which was obviously deaf to this request. And we did not really understand the reason for this deafness, but probably the names have already been distributed and perhaps one of them did not respond to certain characteristics. We do not understand how this can happen: we do not understand, that is, because we do not have the dignity to tell ourselves that we are stronger than the names that are reported to us. We didn't want to put that famous stake, which would have represented a vulnus of the new board of directors. I repeat, however, that we will see how things are going next week, provided that the new board of directors is voted on. Maybe it will be - as it were - a hit and go; let's see if we can do it right away, otherwise we will talk about it in September. We will see what will happen and what will be the ability to do this. However, if you want to elect the new RAI board with the Gasparri law, at least do not give it superpowers, otherwise we create a hybrid - we have already talked about it - a sort of genetically modified organism, although I seem to remember that the precautionary principle still exists in Europe compared to genetically modified organisms. And, in order to respect this principle, perhaps it was not appropriate to give the Director-General the powers of the CEO, because in this way we have built a somewhat strange hybrid, which unfortunately we do not like. We have never liked GMOs, let alone if we like a GMO with a human form. We dare not think of the form of this organism: perhaps the new director-general with superpowers will sprout four arms and maybe two heads; Maybe it'll be bicephalus, so we'll find ourselves in a rather strange situation, Mr. President, where we'll have... VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Stop! Stop! CIOFFI (M5S). But enough what? I want you here to talk six hours! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Don't fuck up! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, we are at the last vote. I believe that after 404 votes, if a colleague wants to make an explanation of vote, he has the freedom to do so. CIOFFI (M5S). I want to make my explanation of vote and I do not want to hear enough, because here we are deciding the future of RAI. And maybe it's not enough to say. If you wanted to close, you could all vote on what we proposed and the problem would not exist. With transitional rules made in this way, do you want to put it or not? Then at least listen to the speech, at least this. What the fuck? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Marinello]] I apologize for the swearing, ma'am, I didn't mean it. Let's get back to the CEO's speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u666	Now, however, you should come to the conclusion, Senator Cioffi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u667	CIOFFI (M5S). I'm sorry, ma'am, we're all a little tired. I don't want to be vulgar. This House deserves it, but I don't want to be. The problem - I repeat - is that. We have introduced a transitional arrangement by the will of the Government, because in this way we have achieved what the Government itself and another part of this House wanted. Mr President, this is not good, because it is absurd. Did you like the Gasparri law? You could have held the board of directors of the Gasparri law, with the powers provided for by that law. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Doing so is not good, it really does not make sense: the transitional provisions make no sense but to guarantee the division. This is really something we cannot understand, and that is why we are a little outraged and have tabled amendments aimed at restoring a principle of normality. The President of the Council has come to tell us that he does not like the Gasparri law, but then appoints the board of directors according to the law, but wants the powers of the managing director to be attributed: this is how something is done outside the world. A vision of power is confirmed in the hands of a person, even if he is not able to play that role - although he desires it, because he would like to be, in an all-understanding way, the only man of power throughout the State - precisely because he does not have the ability to think how things are done in a normal way. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Was the government's goal to do something like that? We have said this before: we would like the Director-General to...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u668	Senator Cioffi, finish, otherwise I will be forced to harmonize the times.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u669	CIOFFI (M5S). Finally, Mr President, I think my speech has been clear. So let us wish our colleague Mr Buccarella, who today deserves those of the whole Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u670	The Presidency supports the wishes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u671	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u672	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u673	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, since now, together with all the members of the 1st Commission, I will have to go to work in the Commission, I want to share some of this time. I find it quite frankly that the Government's amendment, tabled as a transitional provision, which we have tried to remove, through various deleterious amendments, is somewhat disrespectful to the House. I have said this before: as you can see, we have been voting on amendments and regulations until now and tomorrow morning we will be voting on a draft law dealing only with governance and, at the same time, next Tuesday we will vote on the RAI's board of directors, according to the rules of the Gasparri law. So, all this, in the end, has been done to make sure that in a few months, when the procedure will be over - perhaps and who knows when - what really interested will be realized, that is, to move the powers previewed for the figure of the managing director on the general manager. Frankly I find what emerges at the end of this path also offensive, because it wanted to put on the field and pass the idea to the public that there is a reform of the RAI. At the end of this whole operation, however, we will find ourselves with a board of directors appointed with the rules still in force of the much reproached - also on this political side - Gasparri law, and with a general manager, to whom I do not know whether the various norms of incompatibility that we have indicated at this moment, that in fact becomes a managing director, will apply. If, in the end, that was the only purpose - and I say this to the representatives of the Government - we would first have focused on it alone and perhaps it would have been much clearer to the public. I hope you don't want to treat this as the great reform of RAI. That is why our vote will be against.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u674	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u675	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u676	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I believe that this government amendment is the signing of a failure. After so many statements from the Prime Minister that he wanted to give this country a reform without politics on the RAI's board of directors, the signature on this amendment is a failure. The Italians will understand this, but we will also repeat it in an explanation of vote that this reform is not good, just as the Prime Minister's thinking is not good. At first it could be good, but in the end the result is the following: give us back the Gasparri law that, even with all its criticalities, in the end is better than what you will go to approve. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u677	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,500, in the amended text, tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Colleagues, as established, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u678	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u679	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u680	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking under Rule 55 (7) of the Rules of Procedure. As all colleagues know, from Fiumicino airport there is news of a situation that is at the limit of the indecent for the main Italian airport, especially during this period. This situation gives an unbecoming and unworthy image of our country. And since we have not heard a word about this from the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, it would be appropriate for the Minister himself to come immediately to report to Parliament on what is going on. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is the second fire in a short time and we would like to know what is happening, the reason for the delays that are there and how it is facing this situation, because today the airport of Fiumicino is in a mess. And you will all be aware of it tomorrow, when you try to leave to return to your territories.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u681	President Crimi's request is that, on tomorrow's day, the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport may come and report, in the time and availability he wants to give us, to the situation of the fire at Fiumicino airport. If there is unanimity, we will put this item on the agenda and be informed about the time of the possible information by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u682	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-494.ana.u683	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Friday, July 31, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 23.08 a.m.
