ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u4	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9.41 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u10	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I asked to speak because I think it is right that the Senate House should remember the figure of Mario Dondero, one of the most significant international figures of photography and photojournalism, of the live story made in images, because of Walter Benjamin's motto very dear to Dondero: "a photo is worth 1,000 words." At some point in his youthful apprenticeship, Dondero chose to photograph rather than write, because it was more consistent with the value of witnessing, with the civil commitment to the story of truth in all its essence, without aesthetics and without artifices. In his photos, Dondero's gaze is involved, aware, accomplice, but never intrusive. What he reveals in the warm and epic tones of his black and white, in the faces marked but never domesticated, is an irreducible humanity from which the hope emerges: this is the figure of his poetics - all political - that openly contrasts cynicism and narcissism. For Dondero, life and work are one, in a continuous search that makes it a tireless, legendary traveler. Learn the very young trade, in the post-war Milan; he is a reporter to the "Next!" at "The Unity" at "Milan Evening"; it is the time of the elective friendships with Ugo Mulas, Uliano Lucas, Luciano Bianciardi; they are the years of the "agra life," very hard, and of the dinner of the bar Jamaica, in Brera. After Milan it will be the turn of Paris, London, Rome and then of Africa, the Middle East, Cambodia, Thailand; in short: the whole world, in an absolute urgency to witness, to tell what others do not see and keep silent; it is the view of the excluded and its images that make up a "political conscience." In the shots of Dondero there is the "History," the one that breaks into the great stages: the '68 in Paris, Belfast, Athens; the '89 in Berlin; the great leaders, the Heads of State. And there is the story that sits every day in the lives of ordinary people: children in the suburbs of Algiers, rural teachers in Ireland, Sardinian farmers, Emilian workers. The portraits that he makes, for example those of the men of memory in the villages of Mali or those of the great protagonists of European culture, (such as Beckett, Sartre, Pasolini), have the same symbolic meaning that unites them to the mission of the photographer that he feels strong: to pass on the stories of the community, to make them "common cultural good," with the aim of awakening conscience and commitment; that commitment that for Dondero was chosen of life when in 1944, at only sixteen years (but in the physicist he proved thirteen, no more), left his home to join the partisans of the Republic of Ossola. A decision he called "an absolute duty" in his accounts. It was a generation's commitment to change the world, to counter injustice and inequality. A partisan heritage that always coincided with its very existence, with the example to be given to others. He said in an interview: "For me politics is the sense of citizenship, it is the defense of rights, of social achievements and, for the work I do, it is information in search of truth." Dondero, the nomad, in the last fifteen years of his life chose Fermo, the Fermano, the Marches: an intense love, strongly reciprocated by the whole of our community, in particular by the new generations. His travels, his return, continued until a few months ago, as long as it was possible. Whoever knew him, and there are so many in every part of the world, can tell the same thing, in some magical way: it happened that Dondero appeared; it happened to be next to him, suddenly, in a train, on a bus, in a subway car, in a bar, in Rome, in his Genoa, in Paris. It happened to me: to hear me call and recognize him among the faces of that humanity on the road that he loved so much. Hi Mario and thank you. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u11	The Presidency supports your remembrance.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u14	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would also like to appeal, through your own person, to the other parliamentary groups. It is important to consider that these commemorations, if they have a meaning (and must have it for the whole of the House), must at least be made known before they are made by the other parliamentary groups, even in order not to diminish the figure of those who are then commemorated. The risk is that some sort of practice will be established, so that the twenty minutes of waiting for the start of the votes will be occupied by commemorations of which no one is aware. We associate ourselves with what has just been said, having not heard from it before. But we would not want the practice to degenerate so that, in order to fill twenty minutes, the commemoration of the neighbor would also take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u17	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I rise to join and thank Senator Verducci for recalling an extraordinary figure from the twentieth century in Italy, such as Mario Dondero: something more than a neighbor, but a tireless witness, if I may say so, of our time. Moreover, a figure of great human, cultural and even political depth, therefore not simply a photographer, but precisely an important witness of a very significant piece of the history of this country. Senator Verducci recalled his journey, his friendships, the years in which he, Uliano Lucas, Mulas and the other great figures of Italian photography had also marked an element of great novelty; they told the world and the great transformations of our country. And then the civil commitment, begun already at the time of the Anti-fascist Resistance; had been partisan; then 1968. In short, truly an extraordinary figure of our twentieth century. I think that our Group, and I really hope the whole House, wants to remember this in the best possible way, because Mario Dondero was not just a photographer, but an Italian of great value and of great importance. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u18	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1880-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. I would also remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report and a number of questions were raised for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Gasparri to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u19	Mr President, the climate of confusion in our work - we are on the eve of Christmas and we are waiting for the law of stability, so it is known that at these stages work becomes more intense and tends to conclude the work itself - I would not like to underestimate the obvious violations of the Constitution which are contained in this small bill, basically composed of only five articles, which does not change the overall structure of the radio and television system. In fact, 90% (I say this to those who will have to, archived this or that law, resign themselves to the law that we approved in 2004), the setup will remain the one in force today: the rules regarding the designation of the RAI summits, not secondary matter indeed very sensitive but - of course - everything else that has involved the multiplication of the television offer (just to see today, even without a satellite subscription, how much has grown the offer with terrestrial digital) therefore all the themes of pluralism and freedom of information, has found important and comprehensive answers. However, this draft law, although focused only on certain matters relating to the set-ups, the criteria for the appointment of RAI leaders and some side-effects that we will then address in our discussion, undermines a principle that has repeatedly seen the Constitutional Court express itself; the Constitutional Court which, in these hours, has been managed by the present majority with contempt for the principles of balance and democracy, of which, at the various stages of republican life, many of us have been guaranteed. I recall, for example, when, in this House, publicly, I, the Parent Company in the last parliamentary term of a large majority group, took charge of the election (which took place for a single rejection vote) in the Constitutional Court of the current head of state, Sergio Mattarella, who did not find strong support even within his Party of belonging or of origin, the PD, who tried to have other representatives elected (I remember Mr Violante and other aspiring members of the Court). We, who were then in the majority and with substantial numbers, took charge of this election, as is well known; President Napolitano, who is part of this Assembly, often called me as the Parent Company to follow, impartially but very carefully, the course of the elections of the Constitutional Court. Today - and I am always speaking incidentally - I hope that it is not true what I read on page 3 of the Republic, namely that the current President, Mattarella, who at the time enjoyed a guarantee of constitutional and parliamentary balance that we, then with different numbers in this House, took the burden of guaranteeing, would endorse yesterday's operation. Why am I talking about this? Because we are talking about the Constitutional Court, the Council, the guardian of the fundamental principles of our constitutional democracy, which should therefore, in its composition, take into account a pluralism of thoughts and guidelines. You see, precisely this provision recalls the judgments and decisions of the Constitutional Court which we referred to in our preliminary question, which concern the role of RAI, the public service. The Constitutional Court has dealt with it several times, in particular by judgment No 225 of 1974, judgment No 194 of 1987, order No 61 of 2008 and judgment No 69 of 2009. In these four decisions of the Constitutional Court (three judgments and one order), the Court, from 1974 to 2009, then over thirty-five years, with compositions that have obviously changed over time (the term of office of the judges of the Court lasts nine years, as is well known, so over thirty-five years they have rotated dozens of personalities in the Court) has always reiterated that the substantial publisher of the public service is Parliament and has always reiterated the need for the address and control of RAI to remain in the hands of Parliament. 9:56 p.m. (Following GASPARRI). So much so that, then, it was from the judgments of the Court censored the law Mammì and the law Maccanico and never has been censored by the Court the law that I and others led to the approval in 2004, just because the principles of the governance of the RAI, of this law in force and not yet modified (because the bill that we are examining is not yet approved, maybe it will be, we will see), have respected judgments and decisions of the Constitutional Court, which never, from 2004 to today, has found a way to contest and challenge it. The law that today leads to the approval of the Senate alters this principle reiterated by the Constitutional Court, because if on the board of directors - and only after having engaged in a political-parliamentary battle - four of the seven board members will be elected by the Parliament, by the Chamber and Senate Assemblies (no longer by the Parliamentary Supervisory Committee on broadcasting services, but it is still a parliamentary source and therefore that principle is respected), passing the directors from nine to seven it is clear that the incidence of Parliament will decrease, because it will elect four members out of seven. I would like to remind you that today, however, Parliament elects seven out of nine of them and in fact elects an eighth of them, which is the President, because without the vote of two thirds of the Parliamentary Supervisory Commission, the President does not become such. Therefore, the current law assigns to Parliament the appointment of eight advisers, in fact, out of nine, while the law in question makes them designate four out of seven, which, however, matter nothing, because the power is entrusted to the Director-General, which this law transforms into CEO, who can make all the appointments he wants, regardless of the Board of Directors of RAI. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Only thanks to the amendments, which with Senator Paolo Romani and other senators we presented to the Commission during the first reading of the law to the Senate, will the council express at least an opinion on the nominations of the directors of networks and newspapers, which however is not binding and which would become such only if the two thirds of the council - very rare eventuality - rejected the proposals of the future CEO, who is appointed by the Government and will have, in fact, absolute powers. Therefore, the principle enshrined by the Constitutional Court in the aforementioned judgments, namely the centrality of Parliament as a publisher and de facto owner of the RAI, is violated. I recall that the Government manages the events of the Constitutional Court, as we have seen, and I hope that what Goffredo De Marchis wrote on page 3 of the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" about President Matarella's endorsement is false. This is another story, and I hope that President Mattarella will deny that he has put the stamp on bandit operations carried out in these hours. The Constitutional Court, in fact, is important and also in the area of information and public service is the guarantor of Parliament's role. Colleagues, I am not referring to lottification, but to democracy. Here we represent many ideas and groups, we vote and we can also represent the opinion of the Italians in the elegant bodies. It's not lottery, it's democracy. Replacing all this, with a government decision, does not win democracy over the alleged lottification, but makes one party win only, the lottification of one [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] , with the appointment by the Government of the Managing Director, who became CEO, who commands for all. So, if the composition of the Constitutional Court and RAI are dealt with in these terms, there is a democratic issue in our country. The question before us concerns a specific matter, but it refers to a fundamental issue, which concerns the way in which fundamental balances are to be managed at this stage of political and democratic life. That is why I have linked this speech to the Constitutional Court, as it is a related subject. If the Court delivers judgements with a burst and is elected in a certain way, who guarantees the democratic balance? This is not the defence of lottification, it is the defence of democracy, and I am surprised that Parliament is passing a law establishing the figure of the managing director who will do everything. It is said that RAI is a company, but it is a publicly owned company. From the left it has been said so many times that RAI must guarantee impartiality and cannot be treated as an ordinary company. It is not a company: when it is privatised - and the law in force would allow it - it can be treated as an ordinary company. As long as it is a radio and television service, regulated by conventions and service contracts, RAI is an administrator of democracy, freedom and pluralism, which must be subject to specific rules. We wouldn't make a law governing RAI's life right now if it wasn't a company of some kind. It seems to me that my time is running out and I therefore call on Parliament to vote in favour of the question referred to by Mr QP3, because this law will give power to only one, appointed by the Government, but against the judgments of the Court: since the Court has consistently ruled from 1974 to 2009, I hope that the current Constitutional Court, despite your abuses and cheatings, will also have the courage to reiterate the truth. Dear Undersecretary Giacomelli, be careful not to make an unconstitutional law. We, however, do not intend to do so! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u20	We shall now proceed to the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling. Verification of the CANDIANI quorum (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1880-B PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the question referred, with several reasons, by Senator Crosio and other senators (QP1), Senator De Petris and other senators (QP2), Senator Romani Paolo and other senators (QP3) and Senator Cioffi and other senators (QP4). It's not approved. MARTELLI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u21	Mr President, the question of how public service arrangements are managed is extremely important for our democracy. We do not invent it today; we remember that, during the governments of the center-right, the issue of RAI was fundamental. Every day there was talk of RAI and the very serious fact that, in the field of public service, space was also given to the positions of the political parties that represented the majority of the country and that, consequently, expressed the Government. Today, however, it is considered that this issue is not important and it is considered correct that RAI becomes a private property of the Government, which is quite different from Parliament. We remember that RAI is the property of Italian citizens, who are its shareholders through the Treasury, who own 99 percent of this very important company in our country. And the citizens are not all represented by the government, even if the government had the support of 51% of the citizens, as in some ways would be normal. The current government is an expression of parties that, in the most favorable polls, do not reach 40%, indeed they are well below, because they are around 35%. I am referring to those citizens who say in the polls that they could vote for this or that party; the same thing is true if we go to see the results of the elections. Well, this Italian out of five or this Italian out of six, who voted for one of the parties supporting this Government, is somehow represented in a RAI that is an expression of the government alone. But this is exactly the opposite of what a public service must be. The Government, in any country, has a certain ease in obtaining, in the media and in the media, visions of the sympathetic facts with the Government itself. The difficulty is for all the other parties, of course. In fact, the international observers of a country's democracy are not only going to check whether there are elections in that country, because almost all countries are holding elections, but they are going to check - many of us have, as international observers, on the occasion of the elections in other countries - what the situation of the media is. They check, that is, who has control over the mass media and, in particular, how a public service of communication, television and radio is run, which many countries have and Italy has for a long time, even before there was the Republic. Well, with the situation that emerges with this bill we will have a board of directors that will count almost nothing and will be little more than representative, being able - think about it! And only thanks to our amendments - to express opinions, while all the power will be in the hands of the Director-General and CEO, who will be able to decide everything. This is a situation of occupying the power which is disturbing even in the light of what happens every day: a systematic occupation of power through appointments in public bodies. And yesterday we saw it in the Constitutional Court that, for the first time in almost seventy years of Republic, it has no judge that is an expression of the center-right, that according to some polls represents the most important part of the electorate of our country and in any case one of the two most important parts. All this is already disturbing with the current situation of power occupation. Let's imagine once the unfortunate constitutional and electoral reform had to pass, which would put all power directly in the hands, without even the need for the skillful or shameless tricks put in place in recent months and days, of a single party, which counts the consent of 25% of the few Italians who go to vote. In the meantime, you are pre-municated by taking over and militarily occupying the RAI. When the Gasparri law, which is currently in force, created the existing situation, in which there is a broad representation and a real guarantee of pluralism in the RAI, the current Democratic Party has launched itself in all sorts of demonstrations. I remember the girotondini, the intellectual tokens, the same ones that perhaps a few years ago were due to the beautiful situation of freedom that existed in the Soviet Union, which were unleashed against the Berlusconian occupation of RAI. Those same people today are on the side of those who occupy, of those who want to make RAI - even if it did not have the importance it has from the media point of view, it is however a very important company and, in particular, it is a public heritage - a kind of daily regime, a multimedia means of regime that must represent the vision of a single part. True, the Italians are much smarter than the demagogueries think they are and it is not enough to tell them through the public service that everything is fine, because the reality is stronger even than the most pervicacious and insinuating propagande. But such a situation is not acceptable. In fact, it is not only a question of proposing a view of things in a different way and giving precedence to the opinions of a part, but also of highlighting or deleting certain news. The RAI will delete all the news - many already work to do so today, of course - that they are uncomfortable to the lords of the government, who must rob pensioners, in spite of the judgments of the Constitutional Court, and militarily occupy the Constitutional Court, then issuing decrees with a strong attention for the bankers and a very small one for those who by the bankers themselves were cheated and so on. Therefore, in order to perpetrate these situations longer and possibly for decades, the President of the Council Matteo Renzi needs a kneeling RAI that suffocates the voices of dissent and also a Constitution that takes away all space to dissent in order to continue in that direction in a greater way. If he already does these things now, knowing - good or bad - that more or less normal elections can still be there, let alone when he has everything in hand and has tried to normalize the country. Well, although there is already a tendency today not to talk about the problem, this is a disaster and a very serious attack on democracy. Thomas Jefferson said that, for a democracy to function - and let's talk about the eighteenth century - it essentially takes two things: functioning institutions and a communication (at the time called the press) free and pluralist and, of the two, considered pluralistic communication more important. That is why the current government wants to stifle plural information first and then stifle democracy even in substance. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] (at 10.11 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u22	Senator Rossi Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as I said in the 8th Commission at the time of my amendments, I would like to help make this really a reform of the RAI, without ever entering into the issue of the new concession that will be discussed in this House with a view to the next deadline of 6 May 2016. I believe that there is a fundamental risk that the adoption of this bill, as it is, will expose Italy to a Community infringement procedure for violating the rules laid down under the principle of competition and compliance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Reading the text well, it is clear that there is a conceptual error, strongly accentuated in the passage to the House, perhaps not wanted and to be remedied. Already when we examined the text for the first time in the Commission, just the representative of the Government shared that one could not in that bill assume that the assignee of the new concession, after the expiration of 6 May 2016, would still be the RAI. And, therefore, it was not correct to write the name of RAI in all the passages related to the periods after the expiry of the concession, but it would have been better to bring back the public service concessionaire. And that's how others feel about it. I have listened to a number of positions in recent years and have been able to evaluate and listen to very interesting and competent opinions during hearings in the Supervisory Committee and in the 8th Commission. For example, in the prospectus prepared by the auditing company that accompanied the listing of RAI Way, at the point where potential buyers of shares are informed of the risks of the transaction, on page 72, we find written, with regard to the risks associated with the failure to renew the concession of RAI, that the failure of the concessionary relationship between the State and RAI could have negative effects on the issuer, i.e. for RAI Way and, therefore, for shareholders. In 2013, then, Deputy Minister Catralà, in audition in the RAI Supervisory Committee, argued that it is not said that, after May 6, 2016, RAI will still be the concessionaire of the public service and strongly supported the need to put the stamp on the programs paid with the money of the canon: great idea for a real transparency. Even the EBU (the European Broadcasting Union) at the hearing of the RAI Supervisory Committee confirmed that in some countries we have more public service assignments and, moreover, reiterated what I said, namely that private companies in Germany have not allowed public television to develop multimedia, the web, because with public money, i.e. with state aid, it is not acceptable to develop competition on digital platforms. In the RAI Commission, I asked the new Director-General Campo Dall'Orto what he thought about this, since in the illustration he focused a lot on multimedia. He hasn't answered to this day. In Germany - let it be clear - the multimedia project of the public service has been blocked and nothing can make us exclude that such an address in Italy would be appealable in Europe, with the risk of sanctions for our country on this too. There are now 22 persons entitled to a portion of the fee in Germany, and in Switzerland there are different subjects located on the territory. Even in England there is a strong debate about granting to the BBC, which must become more transparent and will have to publish costs above £500. More than more than 200,000 euros as foreseen in this measure! Other than a derogation from the Procurement Code! The bill we are debating today is absolutely legitimate: perhaps not acceptable, but absolutely legitimate. In fact, since the RAI is owned by the State, it is legitimate to legislate on its governance and other issues, but one cannot and should not have included and mixed within the measure the assumption that the RAI will be the future concessionaire after 6 May 2016. It's wrong, and it's a useless force. In this way, as a result of the adoption of this measure, it will be possible for those who wish to make their views known in Europe without having to wait for the issue of granting to be dealt with. Similarly, it cannot be assumed that other parties cannot offer a better service at significantly lower costs. Think that, if you use - as you should - the tool of the race for the identification of the new dealer (or of the new dealers), it would be conceivable a saving of more than 500 million euros per year, of which only 120 from optimization of the transmitted channels and from the necessity of a band for the RAI. I do not know if my colleagues are aware that RAI signed with RAI Way, a month before the stock exchange listing (when RAI, therefore, was still 100% shareholder), a contract of 4 billion euros (about 200 million a year for 21 years). Therefore, with the amendments I have tabled to the Commission and retabled in this House, I try to correct these mistakes and the confusion between the reform of the RAI and the new concession of the public service, confusion - as I have already said - exalted and amplified in the transition to the Chamber of Deputies. I would also like to mention the inclusion of the Ministry of Economic Development in Article 5 of the public consultation. I would remind you that in Britain these consultations are being held two years in advance, while we have been talking about this for four months, clearly demonstrating that this is a farce. I believe that the provision should be removed, or in the Commission (or now in this House) we should have given the direction on how this consultation should be carried out. I have tabled an amendment on this point. In addition, I find it extremely important to extend the derogations from the Procurement Code and even to extend them to companies which are part of RAI in the Chamber of Deputies. How do you do that? This is done right now that you discover 38 million euros in black, that you kidnap the audits kept hidden in RAI instead of brought into the prosecutor's office and the car of the person who had managed the internal audits of RAI is burned? In the face of this situation, which is now subject to mafia warnings, do we extend the meshes and derogate to the procurement code? Just now that the new procurement code provides that no derogations are allowed? Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am only trying to make my contribution to avoiding the grave error of carrying out a bill that speaks of everything, more than anything, as we would say in RAI, and mixes matters of RAI competence with other matters relating to the public service and the expiry of the concession. We still have to understand, although with enormous delay, what can be defined as a public service and who can provide it at the lowest cost, in the pure interest of the citizens. If then the RAI has assigned it, we will have to make other considerations: see what will be assigned, how many channels, for how many years, for radio, for TV and maybe not for multimedia. How many years does the concession have to last? Seven or eight? Public service channels, as in the rest of Europe, how many will they have to be? In the rest of Europe there are three or five, and not fifteen. It will have to be examined whether it is possible or not, and possibly in what terms, to extend to the new media without harming the rights of competitors who do not receive State aid. As far as advertising is concerned, it will be necessary to consider whether it is in favour of maintaining a mixed system of fees/advertising, or whether the person receiving the fee has to give up advertising. Advertising prices, if allowed, will have to be market prices. Advertising must certainly not be sold at dumped prices, as Sipra has done in recent years, for a person receiving State aid of more than EUR 1.7 billion. The draft law under consideration, as it says, opens up European exhibits and contributes to undermining the concept of public service at national and European level. It is good to know that the issue of public service thus imposed on citizens is in strong discussion not only in Italy, but throughout Europe. The citizens of Europe are sick of hearing that public service is all that is offered by the dealer, that it is talk shows, dance programmes and so on. It is necessary to define the perimeter of the public service in a clear and shared way by those who pay the fee. With this bill and the arrogance that you bring in, you will blow up the system either out of rebellion of the citizens or out of disrespect of the principles of competition. I read, to close, a phrase taken from the daily newspaper "The Daily Telegraph" which adapts very well to what is happening now in Italy and RAI: "The BBC has finished working in this buried culture of the last century. We're the BBC, we do what we want, we don't have to answer." Then the Daily Telegraph will continue: They get the money of the fee, which is a tax and, as is right, the public wants to know how the money is spent: the public must have evidence in terms of transparency against the paid fee that is mandatory, only for the fact that they have a television set. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u25	Mr President, if we were to think in this House about the real issues underlying the laws that we are examining, it would be enough to have listened carefully to Senator Rossi's speech to understand how this bill is absolutely negative. The problem, however, is that in this House, for a long time now, we have not listened to and only take decisions pleasing to the Government, without any critical sense not so much in the oppositions, which, as a matter of duty, exercise it, but not even in the majority, which would have the duty to eliminate and correct the forcings that the Government constantly proposes and which do not concern only this bill. All the statements made by Senator Maurizio Rossi, very serious from the point of view of balance in a society that wants to be liberal and modern and between economic, social and even political components, originate from a basic defect. I am referring to the fact that we still think that we can keep a public service primarily on the people's feet, which only responds to political input. I do not know how long it will take for our country to enter into a concept of a liberal and open country, where competition is exercised not by laws, but by market, as it would be right for it to happen. I do not know how much longer we will tolerate the fact that a television enters the homes of each of us with a credibility that comes from the intrusive fact - if you can use this term - and that instead is undermined at the root by political conditionings. Public service no longer exists. There is a television at the service of the government. We have seen it and we feel it every day in our homes. For the truth, since this is a legacy that comes from a period when, at least openly, there was no democracy in Italy, it would really be time to close this experience. On the other hand, unimplemented and unheard of, as happens when it is not appropriate for a certain part of the political class, there was also a referendum, with which the Italians expressed the desire to put an end to the existence of the public television service. But it is clear that, when citizens express themselves in a sense contrary to the will of those who, in a prevailing way, influence the world of information, that expression is immediately discarded, disregarded and not implemented. We argue that the absolute inconsistencies, the forcing of regulations, the derogations from the codes of procurement and the laws on competition, the taxation camouflaged through the canon originate from the fact that there is still in Italy a television owned by the Treasury and, therefore, owned by the Government. What, then, do we ask for this to be done in order to reconcile this absolute anomaly with a liberal and modern society? Among other things, all other Western democracies have also paved the way for us to adapt ourselves to the true rules of competition and the market. We ask that when we make a law to reform the public service television, we do not force ourselves? But it's in King Ipsa. He's absolutely in king ipsa. All the nefariousness of this law is added to the main nefariousness that the public television service is not only strengthened in its public matrix, but is enslaved, through some inconsistencies of the norm, even more to the political power. Times have not changed since there was talk of a lottery, and also of the usher who has to raise the bar at the entrance of the various television venues. In fact, they've changed for the worse. While then it was said in a more stated way that one channel went to one and one channel to another, now it is meant that there is no longer conditioning, when instead it is seen daily, in a transparent and clear way, through the messages that come from those broadcasters in our homes. Colleagues, I think not only that this measure should not be approved, but that a serious review of the overall approach of the presence of the public television service in our country should also be made. The question to which the Italians have already replied in a referendum, saying that they no longer want public television, must be re-examined and, if necessary, once again submitted to the citizens if necessary. And this time, when citizens express themselves, their will must be recorded and implemented. Otherwise, we have everything to do, if only to be able to say that we are representatives of the people in this Parliament, where ever it still has its own voice. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gibiino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u26	Madam President, Forza Italia today, in this House a little empty (and I thank you for your presence and also my colleague, Mr Ranucci, who followed the measure in the Commission)... CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Few but good! GIBIINO (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, but few but good are not enough, because this makes the pair with a RAI that should be public service, and you will then have to see what news will transfer to the outside of what happens here inside. This reform of the RAI can only be linked to pseudo-reforms that should help citizens to be better represented. And I quote Italicum, an electoral law that simply serves a party, which may have 25% of the Italians' consent, to have a majority in this House. I am also thinking of the bicameral system that becomes monocameral, even if in reality it does not serve to speed up the procedure of formation of the norms that regulate the life of our country and between citizens. It is simply to reduce the number of Members who have to vote at a certain stage and, if the PD party has won the elections at that time, it may also be able to avoid wasting time. Moving on to RAI reform, today everything is played in communication, correct communication, correctly or not conveying the information and the number of hours of attendance per week that political leaders have in this or in that television program. In this context, it is not only the incomprehensible fact that Italians have to pay a fee for a public service that is not public, since the offer of information and fun also happens through other television stations, but also what is now mandatory to pay the fee also for facilities where there may be no TV. And now we come to the powers that are given unusually to the general manager and the CEO of RAI. They are total powers, because the Management Board is given the opportunity to intervene on certain choices only if a two-thirds majority of the opposition is formed. I would, however, like to see whether a Director-General can resist a board of directors which has more than two thirds of disagreements with him: he would no longer be Director-General, he would be a substitute for another and, therefore, the actual problem would not arise. Since 1974 the Constitutional Court has imposed a directive whereby the Italian State had to have a law allowing pluralism of information, the representation of all parties and ideas and, above all, that the RAI or the concessionaire of the public service was not directly connected with the Executive power, because otherwise the latter through the RAI would have conveyed information to the citizens in accordance with its action. Senator Maurizio Rossi spoke with great punctuality and full of details in the 8th Commission, in the Supervisory Committee and this morning in the Chamber. Senator Rossi, is there anything going on after you made those statements? No. Senator D'Alì mentioned a referendum that took place and hopes for another referendum. Is anything going to happen after your statements? No. DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Who knows? GIBIINO (FI-PdL XVII). Already this intervention by a colleague means that I have aroused some interest. Senator Gasparri, who has entered the Chamber at this moment, must be granted, however, after the great disputes that he has suffered from his law, the fact that he has implemented, in the wake of what has been indicated by the Constitutional Court, a principle of right to protect citizens, the people, Italy and, at the end, also of the Executive in turn that at that time governs our country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u27	Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u28	Madam President, since Mr Gibiino has welcomed Mr Gasparri's entry into the Chamber - and, when it comes to RAI, his interest is quite clear - I take this opportunity once again to apologise to him. In these years when we shared the work in the parliamentary classrooms, perhaps sometimes I have been a bit scratchy about RAI. I must say that, once again, we can see that there is no limit to the worst, Mr Gasparri. That is to say, give us back the Gasparri law, basically, compared to what this Parliament wants to approve at a definitive stage today: the reform, or supposedly such, of the RAI. However, I would like to stress one thing: the state of the art. I have here with me the articles in the newspapers of the last few days and hours on the situation of RAI, the RAI system, which - I remind myself and everyone - is a country system. "The Messenger": "Tantents for TV contracts," three arrests. Then: "Bustarelle TV, in prison the manager Biancifiori" Bribes and fraud: the TV manager is arrested; Black sources and bribes for TV procurement; TV sets and bribes; Arrested the top manager, and so on. This is the situation in our country at the present time; at least it is what we read in the newspapers, even if it will not be all there. But there is a "però" that perhaps we should go to stress. First of all, it is a great pleasure to see that even colleagues with whom I shared in the previous legislature the Government and the majority have enlightened themselves on the road to Damascus and have discovered that there can be a TV, a television, a free, pluralistic information, which does not belong to a single person. All right, it's never too late to figure out how things should be. I, who am a country boy, was also deluded. I would like to recall the words of the Florentine embosser on the issue of RAI, who said: "We want to scrap the parties from RAI"; We want to take it, eliminate waste and return it to citizens who are the real owners of the public service. Great our Matthew, great. And I believed it, because I thought that this time, as it did with the unions and with so many situations in the country a little bit 'unscathed, a bit'strange and a bit 'borderline, would take hold of the situation and we would be surprised to really give a blow and a hug to our country on information and public TV, now bogged down, kneaded. Among other things, I remember the problem of recent years, unfortunately, with conflicts of interest: I remember how many debates were held in Parliament on the issue of conflicts of interest. And the Premier said that his intention was to "compete" in the European scenario with more and more force, "free the RAI from parties, but also from governments, and return it to citizens." This meant, in his opinion, giving autonomy and independence. Beautiful words, classic, typical of the Florentine embosser. Today, however, at the end of the day, we have something very, very different. We will not vote for this measure and it seems to me quite clear, because as the Northern League we had proposed another type of law, which is very different. In our opinion, something had to change, and the problem lies in the governance of the RAI, but also in the alleged revolution. We really wanted a different governance and our proposal was very simple: first, by 6 May 2016 - it's a topical date, as my colleague Maurizio Rossi recalled earlier - 49 percent had to become private and 51 percent public. Consequently - our draft law accompanied this reform of the RAI - there would be the abolition of the canon (with the bill n. 746). And we had also proposed how we wanted it to be the canon, which is not so, but it is a tax. I'll buy Inter's subscription if I want to go see the team play. It's a subscription. If I don't want to see her at the stadium, I won't take it. This is a tax, because I am obliged to pay it. I would remind you, Madam President, that in the most serious country, from my point of view, in Europe - the Swiss Confederation - they will hold a referendum to abolish the tax on television, on public service. The other day 500,000 signatures were deposited in Bern and there will be a referendum: this is democracy. It is not excluded that this referendum will pass and those of the Swiss SSR, who are quite concerned, are already running to the shelter to understand what can be done. It's a serious country. We, instead, put the tax into the bill, so we are sure that also from me, in Valtellina, will finally pay the canon, because it is from me that the canon is escaped, mainly in Lombardy and in the Bergamo valleys, usually. But on the way back to governance, we had proposed, with our draft law, first of all that the board of directors should be made up of seven members in office five years, re-elected only once and, with a small detail: these persons should not have held positions of a political nature, in whatever capacity, in the ten years before the appointment. Excessive? Not from our point of view, but someone does. Even here the question is not even taken into account. But going beyond this vision of ours, perhaps a little Taliban, how should the board of directors be composed? Not as you compose it, crying vengeance to heaven. A member was certainly to be elected by the State-Regions Conference representing local authorities. It seems quite obvious to me, but this goes against your political nature, which tends to centralize everything, to annihilate the local political administrative power, because there is evil (in your bugged brain), so this is not prosecutable. Three members, including the President, were to be appointed by the relevant parliamentary committees - and that is all right - and one by the National Consumer Council. Is it a crime to think that the National Consumer Council can express its own representative within the Management Board? That's right, it has to be done, it seems quite obvious to me. Ours was the responsibility of the RAI employee assembly - and this too seems to me to be sensible - and one, finally, of Agcom. Finally, we proposed that the board of directors appoint the managing director in office for five years and that the spending power be limited to 10 million euros, limiting also the tasks of the supervisory commission. But we speak in terms of money, because the House gives us something nice - and I will say it in a perhaps more poisonous way in my explanation of vote - and interesting. The change made by the Chamber gives us a RAI that contrasts with what we read in the headlines: a gang of thieves is still stealing on the contracts, also in the RAI (and they put them in jail, put the cuffs on him and brought them in). What do we do? Let us say that RAI must not be subject to the essential rules of procurement, not only in terms of production, but also in terms of supplies. There is a small gem here: the 14th Commission has issued an opinion, which is not an obstacle, but which seems very clear to me, calling everyone's attention to the fact that perhaps it is not necessary to proceed as we are doing. In particular, when you enter into the question of money and procurement - certain rules are written: I do not take them back, but they are certainly in the act and are consultable - it is perhaps the case to have another attitude. I am also referring to the fact that yesterday, in the Commission, on the agenda for the Senate's work, a proposal from Senator De Petris, which I shared, was examined to deal with the draft law for the reform of the procurement code before the reform of the RAI. It was an interesting proposal, which perhaps would offer us the opportunity to work and debate in a perhaps more redundant way. Instead, we are discussing the draft RAI law and I believe that the reform of the procurement code, which was planned for today and tomorrow, will be discussed in January, because I think I understand that we will not work tomorrow. I would have liked to stop and discuss the procurement code and I also studied it, but we will not examine that text and postpone it until January: I am sorry. This is the pace of this government, with this Florentine charlatan and we have to be content. What else, Mr President, if not that we are deeply saddened by the fact that, once again, our country has missed yet another opportunity to really do something new? It was hoped, since earlier the setback was made up of Silvio Berlusconi. You on the left said that, taking out Berlusconi, we'd fix everything. Now his clone has arrived, maybe even a little bit unsuccessful, and we have what we have. I should like to conclude by briefly recalling the words and the report presented in the Commission by the Director-General of EBU, which is the association of all European televisions - I say this in a somewhat 'bovina' way - and I recall that this lady represents a 'billion' of people. What I am saying is to the record and if you will, Madam President, I can give you the written text of the statements in question. The Director-General, therefore, compared the duration of the mandate in the main European public services with that envisaged in this reform, reminded us in her report that: It is only in Italy that the duration is as short: 3 years as in Bulgaria. These are his words, which I quote in a textual way. He said that in the Commission and there was a bit of impasse on the part of the PD colleagues who were present at the hearing. The lady doesn't speak well Italian, but she makes herself understood well: as they say, "she made herself understood well." So let's turn this situation into history, too. Something has changed, but the substance has not changed. Our RAI - indeed your RAI - that we deliver to the future, is a plotted RAI, in which there will be a super manager "licensed to kill," who will have written in his DNA the task of being censor to those who do not think like the boss. We saw him at Leopolda the other day: they smash the photographs of newspapers that write something wrong and put the free press out. The RAI must be on another line, that of the boss: one must say what the boss thinks and he must work who thinks like the boss. This is the new TV, free, pluralistic and modern, projected into the future, which gives us Renzi and who, like Renzi, will vote for it, so you (I am referring in particular to colleagues from the PD, who have so much opposed Silvio Berlusconi's television and the attitude of President Berlusconi, who is not up to me to defend here). I find it a bit funny, with all due respect, to hear the colleagues of Forza Italia, who launched this morning in the spasmodic defense of pluralist television, saying that they are okay with it. But the truth is another, Madam President, and I shall perhaps make it clearer in my explanation of vote. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u29	Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u30	Madam President, these days we are witnessing new developments in the RAI affair, drawn up on well-known guidelines: corruption, political interference in appointments, amendments to the law of stability on the canon. In the procurement investigation (44 investigated to shed light on 38 million euros of black funds) the entrepreneur David Biancifiori was recently arrested, with his collaborator and a financier, on the charge of association to criminals aimed at tax crimes, including the issue of false invoices, fraudulent declaration and corruption; among the suspects there are also RAI officials and managers. There were also episodes to say the least disturbing, such as the participation of the prejudiced Luigi Bisignani, former piduist, sentenced in cassation to two years in the Enimont trial, as opinionist of the public service in the broadcast "Virus" on RAI 2. I wonder, but where are we? Far from me, of course, and from the forces I represent to have censored attitudes towards opinions, but it is one thing to interview any person who can make their contribution on a subject, other is to make them perform, in a public broadcast of the public service, a role of opinionist who is asked to give us an orientation on many things. Rightly on "The Daily Fact," a few days ago, Loris Mazzetti said that it is not a matter of free information. In these days the name of this gentleman has also been made in reference to the events of the Vatican; it has been said that he would be the adviser of the famous "deep gorge." We therefore move on an extremely delicate terrain, in which a shadow (perhaps even more than a shadow) invests in this dark cone the public radio and television service. We are not in the years of monopoly. Many, also thanks to new technologies, are the tools and platforms on which the orientation and formation of consciences is determined; but we are in front of the largest public industrial company, which produces broadcast information, show, fiction. Then there is the question of the appointment of the new Board of Directors of RAI, which seems to fully enjoy the placet renziano, especially with respect to the Triad Dal l'Orto, Guelfi, Verdelli, to the point of making the Government shivering on the bitter controversy for the announced participation of the new Director-General to Leopolda. Will it then be a coincidence that the artistic director of Leopolda, Simona Ercolani, is a candidate for RAI? That's not a naive question. Moreover, the decision of the Government to proceed to the appointment of the Board of Directors of RAI according to the old rules was perhaps the most effective denial to what Matteo Renzi had declared on the reform of RAI, since the middle of last year and precisely to Leopolda, where he had announced that the parties would leave RAI, Finmeccanica and the appointments on the boards of directors, adding that RAI would return to produce culture in total freedom. Here is a new heavy division of posts on the board of directors. So from the RAI - I translate the statements of the President of the Council at the time - the parties come out and only one party enters it; therefore the RAI has only one party. The RAI reform bill is authoritarian, cooperative and at the same time mediocre, because it does not deal with the whole of the policies and regulations of the system with regard to the radio and television system: it is arrogant and closed on a narrow vision of the public service, which cancels forty years of public information. It seems to witness an old projection of the Light Institute, seen and reviewed hundreds of times, with always the same ending and a voice in the background that reminds us of the matrix of production. Against the proposal of the Government, without balancing the powers of management, direction and control, with a head company - the only country Italy together with Bulgaria, as it has been remembered - appointed directly by the Executive and with full powers, legalizing the top tendency of the man only to the command, we worked in the Commission public works in order to enter the principles of the proposal advanced from Italian Left and SEL to the Chamber and the Senate. A proposal prepared with movements and civil society: a pyramid then reversed, with a council of guarantees, at zero cost, with a fee proportional to income, withdrawal of purpose as guarantee for users of a plural information, with counterweight systems and controls, so that this reform was not a restoration operation that transfers the pluralization of the Gasparri law to the unique dimension of the government's will. It took months to write it and to start the discussion and for some time we also deluded ourselves that the government wanted to start a confrontation between political forces, social representatives and citizens; instead it was just agitation of the waters to appoint the board of directors according to the old logic dividers. To this is added the general bleak and worrying context of a public service that does not fulfil its duties of completeness, impartiality and pluralism of information, as confirmed by numerous resolutions of the Authority for the guarantees in communications of certification of violations. The data on political pluralism provided by the Centre for Listening to Broadcasting Information are also disconcerting with respect to the space reserved for the Government and its majority: disconcerting, from a non-democratic country! A target, of course, we have centered it: we have removed the delegation to the Government on the canon; in fact we have managed to delete the original article 4 of the RAI reform bill that concerned the canon, despite the contrary opinion of the rapporteur and the government. We at the Italian Left and SEL also tabled, in addition to the deletion of the entire Article 4, some strategic amendments on the tax progressiveness of the fee (i.e. proportional to income), on certain resources and on equity. The proposal to turn them into an agenda - a weak and useless instrument, especially since it is a delegation - has been rejected. In these days we have learned that part of the major revenue foreseen by the reform, according to an amendment to the Stability Act approved in the Budget Committee in the House, will go to the RAI company: the rest will be used to feed, among others, the Tax Pressure Reduction Fund and the new fund to ensure pluralism and innovation of local radio and TV information. We cannot help but note that this measure should have been dealt with in the context of a serious debate on the reform of publishing and the whole information system (electronic media, press and so on), a sector which is taking on dramatic aspects. Today, after an exhausting battle conducted in the institutional and territorial fora, together with many associations such as MoveOn Italy, Adusbef, RCI, Article 21, Federconsumers, Legambiente, Freedom and Justice and others, together with the citizens who supported us in the appeal "Reform the RAI " COMMON Good," we will safeguard the Public Service against a private vision, for the direct participation of citizens in communication and for the independence and autonomy of the public service, we note that the umpteenth piece of the overall counter-reform of this Government, aimed at disrupting the Constitution, the work, the school and now also the RAI, still today the most powerful public instrument in the formation of consciences. Let us therefore touch on an absolutely sensitive subject. In declaring our opposition to this bill that will transform the public service into a government agency, I would like to remind the Government that even occupying all public spaces will not be able to silence the democratic confrontation, the intermediate bodies, let alone the participation of citizens: as it was for the good school, we will continue to make critical mass in defense of what remains of the strategic garrisons of democracy, culture and the formation of consciences, freedom of information, the collective identity of a country. All common goods guaranteed by our Constitution will always be at the side of our political action. Today we move towards the past. Allow me to say this: the RAI fief returns to the hands of one party. The next station, after the Leopolda, will be the return to black and white, because there really would be consistency. Yesterday I read what Vincenzo Vita wrote, that in addition to being a former colleague of ours he had important positions in past Governments on this front, using a reasoning and then arriving at a conclusion (and we too come spontaneously to ask ourselves): how can President Mattarella digest such a misdeeds, who in 1990 resigned as Minister for the untenable heaviness of the law Mammì on the issue, mother of subsequent disasters? But maybe it was a different time. We will continue this battle and stubbornly fail to comply with the superficial judgements that have been given in recent months to our proposals, all of which enter into merit and have no obstructive veins. I would also like to say that: some of the judgments in this regard make us proud. We - as I recalled - have made proposals, together with many other associations, focusing mainly on the issues of guarantee and participation. Therefore, with a special amendment, we proposed to set up a Council for Public Service Guarantees and a Council for Participation. In that amendment we also specified that ours was only a line of direction, but if there had been (and there are certainly) other associations or subjects to be considered in these bodies we would not have had any tendency to exclusion; indeed, we would have wanted to compare to ensure that they had full citizenship within these instruments. The goal is to have a transparent public service, under control, and that can also bring innovative ideas and proposals that start from below. On these amendments a judgment was expressed, not of opposition, but of inadmissibility, despite having specified that they were all proposals without additional costs and charges, unlike what always happens with the draft laws and, including this, submitted by the Government and the majority. I tell you then that you are right: these proposals, in their simplicity, precisely in the fact that they do not involve burdens for the State or for the RAI company are really inadmissible. We will stubbornly continue to support them, together with the citizens who have proposed and elaborated them with us. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u31	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u32	Madam President, I would first like to welcome the Government's choice - I do not know to what extent it is to be attributed directly to the Undersecretary Giacomelli - to have managed so far with balance and prudence the sensitive matters that have been attributed to him; indeed, perhaps at times with excessive balance, because I believe that there are many events on which, while respecting the autonomy of the RAI, even the Government with discretion should take a look at the need for impartiality and plurality of the public service. The balance derives from the fact - I have already pointed out this morning in the intervention on the question referred for a preliminary ruling, which unfortunately has been rejected - that the installation of Law No 112 - let's call it - in order not to make autocitations - on the television system has been maintained in force. This law therefore deals with some aspects of governance and some of the RAI's competences and roles. It was decided at the first reading in the Senate to intervene also on the matter of the canon, but then the rejection of the then article 4 of the bill caused it to find definition elsewhere. In the bill of stability has been in some way defined the story, it seems to me also clarifying (but we wait for the text to arrive formally from the Chamber) the question of the attribution of the major receipts presumable with the rent in bill: whether to RAI, whether to the reduction of taxes or also to the local issue, that - I think - for a quota of up to 50 million will be able to participate in these revenues. I was saying, therefore, that the substantial plant (Antitrust, system layout) has remained intact; it has not been touched by this bill and therefore I must conclude that, ten years later, the Constitutional Court does not object to Law No 112 that led to the approval: the plant is maintained, so it was wrong who criticized it, who contested its lack of pluralism and freedom, when instead it involved the opposite. I have already mentioned - but I would also like to remind you here - that days ago I appreciated a tweet by former Senator Petruccioli, who has dealt a lot with this matter - he was President of RAI, director of newspapers - in which he wrote: "I see the first of the Scala, staying at home, on RAI 5". Today the RAI offers more than ten channels on digital terrestrial accessible by all at no extra cost: it is not satellite television for payment, it is not a pay TV - apart from the obligation of the fee - but it is the television that everyone can see, even at this moment, at 11:05 on Thursday of 17 December. The RAI has 13 channels, two of which are of sport, the most well-known generalists, those of culture and cinema; therefore, at this moment any user can look at anything: opera, theatre, cinema, sport. Therefore, technology also helps us to solve some aspects of the culture and quality of the content, with the multiplication of the offer. Then it is obvious that a product placed in the generalist channel of greater listening at a certain time has an impact on the greater audience, but also here the RAI must combine qualitative growth with the need to maintain numbers and a wide user, both for advertising and because the public service is also made by entertainment, sports, by many forms of dissemination. There are programs that RAI has been doing for years, in which scientific aspects (I think, for example, archaeology) are spread by journalists (or sometimes by subjects that are not even journalists), even with a cut and a tone that we could call more national popular, but that makes those topics usable by a wide audience, because then quality must not become incommunicability, misunderstanding. In the first post-war period the function of RAI was even of literacy of the country; Today the country is different and schooling, fortunately, has changed much and for the better; however, RAI can and must do much from the point of view of the dissemination of knowledge. That is why we believe it is wrong to intervene on a single point in Law No 112 - which remains fully in force - and that is on the events that concern the RAI summit, with a worse evolution, because everyone has argued with the interference of politics, except then interfere. There were leaders who were also unwelcome to the current President of the Council, and it happens, then, by their will - famous is the case of Floris - they transmigrated elsewhere; no one threw them out, but they understood that they were not welcome. I do not follow all the programmes - those of a political nature are now so many - but they tell me that a few nights ago, on another private network, Floris himself took some revenge against the current President of the Council. Therefore, there is no doubt that there has been a historical interaction between public service and politics, as there is no doubt that these interferences should be limited, so much so that we introduced by law - and it was confirmed even after the discussion we made in the Senate - the principle of an elected president with the ratification of two thirds of the Parliamentary Supervisory Commission. The two-thirds are a quorum that must be reached with the competition of all parties, so to put the RAI presidency a little out of the mix. Confirming this choice I think was right. She didn't take the road, which I felt years ago, of entrusting RAI to a foundation. But who makes the foundation? Is it a neutral entity? Is it coming from Mars? He arrives with Han Solo, on the Millennium Falcon of Star Wars, from other galaxies, and they bowl it here? A foundation would have its own physicality, property, conduction. Parliament is better off. I am surprised when, from the right criticism to the excesses of political interference, Parliament's role is then cleared up. It is better for RAI, according to the judgments I cited before the Court, to maintain parliamentary control. The formal owner is the Government. However, the Government has powers; even with the law in force the general manager is appointed by the shareholder, which is the Treasury, but then it must be voted by the board of directors, which has real powers and must approve a whole series of appointments. Already with the Monti Government there was a change in fact: the opinion of the Board of Directors was reduced, decisive and binding, to editorial appointments (network directors and newspapers), leaving the rest (head of staff, more management figures) to the competence of the Director-General. Now this draft law expels the board of directors who, thanks only to my amendments, will be able to give an opinion on the nominations of network directors and headmasters. However, these opinions, which are mandatory but not binding, will only become binding if two thirds of the members reject the proposals of the Director-General, which this measure raises to CEO. Who appoints this CEO? The shareholder. Who's the shareholder? The Ministry of Economics and Finance. What is the Ministry of Economics and Finance? Government. We are therefore talking about the President of the Council and the appointment that is being made is not technical. The current director-general was right to listen to the advice of Senator Fasano, who several times, with public statements, invited him not to go to Leopolda, as he had announced. Campo Dall'Orto was a well-known visitor to Leopolda. Was he appointed Director General because he went to Leopolda? I don't know, but he was going. He announced he was going to Leopolda this year, but he didn't. The general manager, tomorrow CEO of RAI, can certainly go to political conferences and express his opinion; in this case, however, there is a more binding adhesion to a current project. It is not a manifestation of the Democratic Party, but an event that marks a certain belonging and a certain way of understanding, legitimately, its own position. The Director-General must also carry out a public function of comparison with politics, but not of belonging to a current, so much so that this year he did not go to Leopolda. But was he named because he went to Leopolda or because he was good? We'll see about that. I do not know whether he is good or not: I have seen him during the hearings in the RAI Commission and I can have doubts or reservations. However, I know that the choice was political, because in previous experiences in other companies that person was removed because he was not fit for the task (these are sources that I might mention and that, if anything, I will call back in the course of the debate). The draft law under consideration is therefore not acceptable, because it gives all the power to one and, undersecretary Giacomelli, goes against the judgments of the Constitutional Court. As I said when examining the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, the composition of the Constitutional Court is also important for this reason. On the press agencies I defined what happened yesterday as an act of political banditry. To exclude a confrontation with all parties in the appointment of the judges of the Constitutional Court aggravates everything because it shows that a Constitutional Court is wanted in a certain way to adopt a certain type of judgment. I have seen that President Napolitano has just come to the Chamber and I am sorry he is not here now. The then president of the Napolitano Republic called the leaders, regardless of political affiliations. When I was a group leader, he called me to ask how the nominations of the judges of the Constitutional Court were going and it was recommended to elect them and to do it in a balanced way. Today I read in the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" an article by Goffredo De Marchis, according to which President Mattarella would have endorsed yesterday's ignoble operation. However, I do not believe this because I know and appreciate it and I hope that there will be some denials. I quote these facts because the public service, RAI and the Constitutional Court rulings are at the heart of democracy. RAI is not just any company, it's not MTV, Discovery or anything else: it's public service. Then it can be sold or stopped: the rules are there, even if no government, neither center-right nor left-wing, has ever implemented them. As long as there is a public service, Parliament will play a central and fundamental role in its policy. It will be said that there must also be a board of directors which gives non-binding opinions, as well as a parliamentary supervisory committee. That is true, but I believe that the absolute power of the managing director that is being created is a danger to democratic balances. It seems strange to me that they are silent about those who have been wandering around, talking about rules against gags and implementing attempts at polemics, aggressions and disputes of libertarian laws. I saw just yesterday that Giuseppe Giulietti, who has tirelessly recovered from the parliamentary trombature of not being rebranded and who was immediately "recovered" and appointed president of the National Federation of the Italian press, spoke of the notorious Gasparri law. What does he say about the CEO of RAI? He was also head of USIGRAI, the RAI's only internal union. He talks, talks, talks, and does congress, but he doesn't speak clearly. Is this bill that provides for the figure of a super-cEO who commands everything a democratic and pluralistic provision? Where are those who denounced gags and newspapers that put yellow pitches (which are not the ones we use to remember maroons)? There was a time when on the front page of some newspapers a yellow timbre was placed to signal that there was the biech center-right that served the information. Now we will have the "Leopoldino," appointed Director General, who becomes CEO and will be able to do essentially what he wants. Of course, there is a public opinion and a clear context of television activity that will not possibly deprive us, in the face of abuse, of the possibility of polemics and political battles, but this approach is not good. I repeat, this is not good. Parliament, which is being expropriated of a fundamental role that the Constitutional Court in 1974, 1989, 2008 and 2009 marked, takes on an attitude that I consider suicidal and irresponsible. There is an objective unconstitutionality of this small and short law: it intervenes only on one point, but it harms a fundamental principle. I have tried to represent - and I will do so today - this point of view by denouncing a serious mistake that is being made. It is said that there is alternation, but the fact that there will be another government tomorrow that can use excessive powers over RAI does not justify the error: that error can be shared over time and democratic alternation does not make that error a right thing. We hope that there will be a democratic alternation and a possibility of using the rules differently. We are therefore in a moment of real democratic emergency because a series of events are combined: we are not confronted when we must elect the President of the Republic - a person I esteem, I repeat, but who was proposed in a context not of sharing - and we interpreted in this Senate Chamber the rule of secret or obvious vote on an occasion - alas - famous and painful for us of decadence of our leader and applied in the opposite direction; yesterday, with a preordained plan, we took on the pretext of a parliamentary controversy, which will also be legitimate. It is not the President-in-Office of the Council who chooses the opposition party leaders. This is also an unpleasant way of interfering and ingesting in the political debate, at a time when the controversy is revived because it is under attack with banking, economic and family events that we will discuss elsewhere (because we will obviously discuss them without any silence). I therefore believe that there is a complex of factors (Constitutional Court, election of the President of the Republic, interpretation of the Regulations when there is Berlusconi to be expelled from the Senate, law on RAI that gives power to only one) that question the fundamental principles of pluralism and the balance of democracy, which is made up of respect for all. We are not defending the lottification here, but a law that is the only one in the matter of RAI that has never been contested by the Constitutional Court, which imposed rules of the law Mammi, of the law Maccanico and will tear this apart, unless the judges of the Court have elected them with a Lion pact of servility to the needs of the Government. The life, in fact, is long, the governments pass and, therefore, there will be not only a judge in Berlin, but one at the Council that, in line with the judgments of decades, will say that the government's overpower over RAI, sanctioned by this legend, is abusive, unconstitutional and illegal. That is a fact to which we do not pay due attention because it is now 17 December and today's problem is when this debate ends and when we vote on the amendments, because there are aircraft. The planes fly at all hours; there are many; today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow and, therefore, there is no problem. Therefore, we can and must discuss the time needed. Already the fact that a decree-law was not made if it wanted to make one in the matter of RAI, but we challenged it and that the trust, which would be another obnoxious and abuse, has not been put in place, are appreciable facts. We then discuss the substance of this matter. It will be said: the third passage is virtual; the law has already been partially modified. When a law is clearly unconstitutional like this one, a majority vote does not remove its substantial flaws. Therefore, we must keep the debate open and call everyone's attention to avoid a serious mistake because it is to the detriment of the public service: it will not safeguard pluralism and freedom of information. Already now we see that at RAI, just to give an example, the general manager, who has not yet become CEO, has already made seven recruitments from outside for quality posts in a few months, unlike his predecessors (like Lorenza Lei, who made two in all his long term, or Masi, who made four or five in years of mandate). Now they've already made seven external hires. Does RAI need external recruitment? I understand if one takes the genius of the moment, but with 16,000 employees, a head of publishing or a head of the press office will find himself as well. I don't make names to not harm anyone's careers, but I assure you that there are great directors without a job, of any cultural orientation, that within the RAI are paid to do nothing and that they could cover these tasks, which instead are entrusted to external subjects, all then chosen in the wake of a unique thought; some even come from party staff, as happened in past days. It is perhaps useless to say from which party it has drawn; the Democratic Party, the one that has already somehow discharged the debts of the Unity: 107 million euros. Do I think of the people of Arezzo and the banks, to whom denies the money a State that has given 107 million euros public to repay the debts of the Unity? But do we want to talk about it, Juliet and the others? This is the same figure that would be reserved for the bondholders of banks, whose situation is treated as that relating to the debt of the unit. Frankly, this seems incredible to me, but we are going to discuss this in the law of stability and motion until the Senate is functioning. The Senate will have other destinies and outcomes in the future, but as long as we can discuss them, we will talk about them, because they are all issues related to information too. Is it wise to use 107 million public money because "The Unit" was in debt? And then who's gonna tell the guys the banks took the money from? Is it more important, as a credit, what someone had with "Unity" or what someone boasts with banks? These are all issues that make us talk, with concern, about a real emergency, and there is no bravado, bullish and more or less intimidating attitude of the President of the Council that can prevent discussion on these issues. There is no need to raise your tones, because even with calm tones you can denounce all this. That is why we believe that this is a wrong law and invite the government to reconsider. It would be an act of wisdom if undersecretary Giacomelli surprised us by saying that the government wants to reflect a little more, because Parliament is important. I am also referring to the future Parliament, which, if this reform is finally adopted, will be different from what it is today. This House, if it represents regions and territories, will have its say on the public service. How many times in the past wondered why the Regions did not compete to express someone on the board of directors? The future Senate, which will have a very strong territorial roots, will have this opportunity. We will get there, but there will always be a public part: the Regions and the territories. It is the citizens, and it is not the person who sits at Palazzo Chigi (today there sits one, tomorrow there will be another) who sends his CEO of trust to make the public service his manipulity, pretending to say that the parties do not deal with it. By chance, those who went to play that role took him from the Leopolda attendees. They're all taken to the left by the outsiders now. So we have not seen very transparent procedures. They did a verification within RAI and found no one who could cure the press office or marketing; but look at this: with 16,000 employees? ( [[Applause from Senator Bernini.]] I hope that the Government will end this by giving up a wrong bill and defending the real reasons for the pluralism and freedom of which Parliament is, has been and will always be the guarantor. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u33	I greet a representative of students from the School of the Middle School "Gioacchino Rossini" in Visciano, in the province of Naples, who today attend our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciampolillo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u35	Madam President, the reform of the RAI proposed by the Government is yet another example of the hypocrisy of a political class, accustomed to deceiving citizens in the name of a false newness, with declarations of fake renewal that actually tend to hide the nothing behind the work of our dear Renzi and his cheerful troop of old young people. After all, what could we expect from a young man who grew up attending the commercial television studios of his real political godfather? There is talk of public service to justify the payment of the fee by the poor citizens. Certainly not everyone has the opportunity to save his family by enjoying the decree-laws of his friend, President of the Council. Not everyone has the opportunity to accuse their fake political opponent for years by invoking a law on conflict of interest, except then govern and legislate in favor of their friends and relatives. I do not think it is wrong to argue that this draft RAI reform law is actually intended solely to change the system of election or, better, to appoint those who will be responsible for guiding the public information system in Italy. The Government, again on this occasion, contradicting the flagrant requests for renewal of the RAI, confirms its falsehood by re-proposing in fact the old scheme of political lottification of appointments, depressing the demands and expectations of those who seriously and without masters imagine that they can make a contribution to the cultural and social growth of Italy. One cannot be surprised, then, if the boys are more attentive to teleshopping or to the private life of some alleged throneist or veil or olgettina, rather than trying to understand the reasons for the many contradictions of our world. Once again, politics affirms its supremacy over citizens, with a government presenting in Parliament a fake reform that is essentially based on an absolute Renza dogma, that is, the government understood as command, as a biech and authoritarian exercise of the will to impose its own choices. The only goal is to get your hands on the RAI and control it; in short, a bit like it has already been done with the school. There is a person who must be in charge and, of course, there is a system of appointing him to ensure that the President of the Council has absolute control over the public information system. The 5 Star Movement had proposed a board of directors composed of five members that operate full-time and without any connection with the parties and with the Government and with a duration able to offer a long-term vision of the public service; a vision of renewal, able to ensure independence from the political power, through a system of choice certainly far from that provided in the government's bill. Italy needs free and independent public information. Italy, therefore, needs a free, independent board of directors, able to offer a pluralistic and autonomous vision and to give a strategy of freedom and strategic openness towards the future to the entire radio and television system. How can one think that the government appoints who should ensure free criticism and information also about the work of the government itself? What are the guarantees for citizens? I would also like to stress that the future of young people cannot be placed solely in the hands of cold managers at the service of the government. I would also like to take advantage of the Government's presence to point out that, in the context of this reform, an agenda has been voted almost unanimously by this House which even provides for the publicity of the Chamber's and Senate's work to be guaranteed through transmission on digital terrestrial, but these two new channels have not yet been seen on the Mux of digital terrestrial. In that case, the citizens would have the opportunity to see what is happening right now directly on their television screens, so this is a lack of the Commission in relation to a commitment that has been made and voted almost unanimously by this House. Perhaps it is necessary to remember our history and the ability of Italy, through art, culture and science, to trace a new future and to give something deeper than a mere expense account, as usual to the citizens. The 5 Star Movement is ready to give voice to citizens, with the simplicity and pride of those who understand, for the common good, that it is time to build a radio and television system that is truly at the service of citizens and not of parties or, even worse, of this Government. The 5 Star Movement wants a free RAI, that knows and can freely criticize the political power, the judicial power, the economic power; a true public service in defense of the citizens and the right of each to free and pluralist information. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u36	Senator Bernini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u37	Madam President, I apologise, but lately I have been a little blindsided and trying to catch up on my way. I listened very carefully (it is said and it seems almost like a stylish clause, but in this case it really is not) to the speeches that preceded me: I listened to Senator Ranucci's report, which in the first step to the Senate tried to give the government bill a more respectful approach to Parliament's prerogatives. It is no coincidence that I am using this expression here today, because it is precisely Parliament's prerogatives that I think we should speak about the draft law under consideration. We are dealing with a very sensitive matter, as Senator Gasparri recalled in the intervention that preceded me. On the contrary, I draw close to this subject with great respect; I dealt with it technically in my previous academic life when I dealt precisely with that law of 2004 which has a great precedent through that US discipline, the telecommunications act, which aims to bring together many principles. I do not say values, because our Constitution has consciously chosen not to speak of values, but of principles: so many constitutional principles that, with reference to the topic of communication, starting from the short century, have proved to be fundamental. We are dealing with very sensitive issues, I repeat; we are talking about the right of access, from which arises the need for a right of plural access, of all the voices, because we are referring to a public service that, as the Constitutional Court says several times (in some ways a little unheard), has a nature of social service, which must therefore have as its main publisher - and I use this expression not by chance - the national community. It must not be the result of a majority expression necessarily protempore, which varies according to the different electoral and government dynamics, but it must represent all of us. As far as communication is concerned, I mentioned the short century, which through the passage of radio, the first television emitency, has proved to be communication and propaganda. Attention, precisely through these increasingly wide-ranging, increasingly multimedia, increasingly interconnected forms of communication, constitutional principles are expressed, manifested and exploded. I repeat, the right to access, pluralism, listening and expression of all voices and manifestations of thought. According to Article 41 (in addition to Article 21 and Articles 2 and 3 which speak of equality and fundamental rights), the right to enter is also deeply involved in this affair, because, as Senator Gasparri rightly pointed out, we are also talking about antitrust and anti-monopoly issues. All this brought about by such important principles and values - and I apologize again to Senator Ranucci who tried, together with the Undersecretary Giacomelli, to do his best to remedy this pathology typical of this Government - is quite uncompatible with that communication and propaganda that is a typical figure of this Government, which through roboating announcements says: for the first time we have dealt with a matter immobile for twenty years; for the first time we have given a sense and a new structure to themes too often neglected by politics; for the first time we have won immobilism. This sounds a lot like communication and propaganda, especially on a law, No. 112 of 2004, that this bill fortunately touches very little. As has been mentioned in this debate, the so-called Gasparri Act of 2004 was not touched by the Constitutional Court because it works and has proved to work. Many times too many demagogic arguments have been made, colleagues: like when you say "outside the RAI" parties. Well, when the RAI becomes a public company or is privatised, then we'll get out of that dynamic parliamentaryisation that the Constitutional Court itself wanted for RAI. Colleagues, do we want an RAI in the hands of the Executive? Outside the RAI parties to put in one party, the government party? Is that what we want? Unfortunately, this is what this bill proposes, in a way that is not even so hidden. But that is not what the Constitutional Court is asking for and it is not what the Constitution requires with the articles that I mentioned earlier, not by chance, one by one. It is not what makes this bill, that is to propose plural access in the organization chart and in the manifestation of the governance of the RAI company that, I repeat, colleagues, is once again reaffirmed as a public service, in public hands, managed through an inevitable - I repeat, inevitable - parliamentary control activity. The Constitution and the Constitutional Court, in fact, say that it must be inevitable, in the face of such important rights that must not be left in the hands of the Executive, the parliamentary control activity, which, Senator Ranucci, unfortunately the first bill, the one I mentioned before (all communication and propaganda), had in mind to undermine even more of this text. There was even talk of nominations by the Commission without those characteristics of blando - too mild, as far as I am concerned - control by the Supervisory Committee or the Board of Directors of RAI. There was even talk of a decree-law, an absolute unicum. [[Recalls of the President]] Is that for me, President? Have I run out of time? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, sorry. I called for silence in the Chamber to listen better to his words. Time passes quickly when you have fun, but it would have been too fast in this case. I said that it would be an absolute unicum the idea of proposing a reform of the RAI through a decree-law; a reform that, moreover, I repeat, to de minimis - and I would like to reiterate very clearly - the Gasparri law, which has demonstrated in these ten years of being able to pass all the exams, all the tests of maturity, both in its application phase, and in comparison with the Constitutional Court. That is crucial, colleagues. In fact, you will remember that in 2004 and 2005 - I remember it from my post - some constitutionalist colleagues joined appeals, such as Article 21. I remember the former colleague, former president of RAI, Zaccaria, who made, through the association "Article 21" an appeal talking about the autocratic management of RAI by the general manager who, as configured by Gasparri law, is nothing compared to the CEO, as configured by this bill. Let me now - also to avoid, Madam President, that the bell sounds for me this time - refer above all to two aspects in this draft law that make me very worried; indeed three, because I would put in the canon too. Mr Gasparri spoke about this earlier and we could immediately unravel the subject of the canon, which is what intrigues me most of all. Link Ranucci, for what reason, in a reform that you want - always in that crowd of communication and propaganda that is characteristic of this Government, so roboating announcements follow minimal results - organic RAI does not include also the regulation of the canon, which instead is part of the law of stability? Moreover, it is a very troubled regulation: we do not understand if we will pay for it from the first two months of 2016 or if perhaps, for election reasons, since there are local elections, we will start paying for it from July. This is how I say it, en passant, between us that we should be legislators: we also turn a tax of purpose into a tariff, which is quite brutal from a fiscal point of view. But what do we care? We are now violating the Constitution and the parliamentary regulations, what do we care about turning a tax into a tariff? It's nothing compared to what we're doing. But in this iconoclastic crowd that characterizes you of the majority (we of the minority, sincerely, we try, with the low power of our numbers, to oppose this iconoclastic impulse), also the canon is treated in a very curious way, especially because, if the majority had really wanted to reduce the canon, this was the time to do so; instead, this is the moment when the canon is inserted in the bill and there will be an extrajective of a billion euro that, as my colleague Gasparri rightly recalled, is not well known to what and who will be destined, since normally the destinations are multiple. Do you remember the European flexibility clause? She left first for security and immigration, then moved on to everything: investments, police, culture. It is all multi-destination, too bad that, then, the mails are always those and usually are not enough even for the first destination. Another issue I would like to address, Madam President, (I try to avoid being indisciplined) is that of the Management Board. There has been a lot of talk about the CEO and I would like to refer in part to the critical remarks I fully agree with the previous Members. I would like to concentrate on the risk that the appointment of the board of directors, according to this bill, will lead in terms of pluralism. I said that communication through the radio and television service, as long as it is a public service or operated by a private dealer, provided that it belongs to the public hand, is a social service, which must represent all of us. The Board of Directors therefore goes from nine to seven members, with a ludicrous way of reducing expenditure: to provide for two directors less is not that it is much a spending review. Colleagues, you will tell me that, as President Renzi said yesterday, even the 80 euros count, but it depends on whether they really give and how they allocate. The real problem is that these sects - instead of nine - administrative advisers risk, due to the combined arrangement of that "extraordinary" constitutional reform that we are approving and the electoral law, being all of the same color. For the majority of the Chamber of Deputies and for this Senate after the regional worker, which will tend to be monocolour, we risk having at least six RAI advisors, leaving out the one elected by the representation of RAI employees, of the same political color. You call this pluralism? I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying nothing about the figure of the head of the board of directors, that is, the managing director, who has far more authoritarian and autocratic connotations, but the left - I also recognize in this case the presence of people who have made very vigorous comments on the Gasparri law, which are now silent - singularly silent and certainly cross-eyed, at this moment it no longer sees. Attention, because if we do not make a critical reflection on what we are approving, we will once again risk doing damage, which we now see on paper, but which we will soon see applied to a reality, which, moreover, is destined to be increasingly multimedia, interconnected and important, with respect to which we all colleagues, and especially the majority, will have a great responsibility in the future. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Campanella. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u38	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u39	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u40	Mr President, I would like to thank all my colleagues for their speeches, which have all been constructive. I think, however, that perhaps some things need to be emphasized and reiterated. Firstly, I want to talk about the CEO's powers, which are strategic powers and which have been said to be out of the norm. I invite everyone to verify what are the functions of a CEO in any company, but in order to enter precisely the within of the powers of the managing director of the RAI company it is read in the bill under consideration that the board of directors approves the industrial plan and the editorial plan, the estimate of annual expenditure, as well as the investments in the company. It's not the CEO, it's the board of directors. So what does the CEO do? He - again according to the text of the law to our examination - responds to the Board of Directors on the management of the company and ensures the consistency of television programming with the editorial lines and directives formulated and adopted by the Board of Directors. He shall also propose for the approval of the Board of Directors the company's acts and contracts and shall implement the industrial plan made by the Board of Directors. So if we want to say that there's only one man in charge, we don't know how companies work in our country. There is not only one man in command, but a man who takes responsibility, while the industrial and programming guidelines are in the hands of the board of directors. I would like to reiterate that, even in the light of what I have heard too many times. I must also say that, thanks to the contribution of many Groups, the corporate communication and transparency plan is proposed by the managing director, but it is approved by the board of directors. I want to reiterate this forcefully. Secondly, it is said that there is a constitutional problem with the formation of the board of directors. Well, four members of the board of directors are voted by Parliament: this is what the Constitution wants, and these were the comments made. They are not appointed by the Government, but by Parliament. So there is full parliamentaryisation, because it is four out of seven, and one is even appointed by the employees. The majority shareholder does not appoint, but suggests the managing director and the chairman to the board of directors; these are elected and voted by the board of directors itself. I therefore believe that there is no vulnus on this point. Another aspect that many colleagues have highlighted is procurement. Someone has rightly raised the scandal of bribes paid: I would like to remind you that those EUR 38 million have been brought to light by the internal audit. That is, within the RAI a service works, which has provided these data to the judiciary, which is intervening (we'll see how it ends). So today there is (and tomorrow there will be even more) an internal audit system that will monitor procurement. I would stress that contracts which will not be subject to the rules of the code are only those which concern programming, transmission times, in short, the artistic part, because we believe that RAI should have the opportunity to act immediately and to acquire programmes and broadcasts very quickly. I remember however that the limit for the managing director is fixed in 10 million euros. All acts and contracts which amount to more than EUR 10 million shall be submitted for approval by the Management Board. In addition, in this draft law the conflict of interest was raised to greater attention. In addition to that, I would also like to respond to a number of colleagues who have highlighted another fundamental point. I thank Senator Bernini, because her speeches are always very enlightened and I follow them with great attention. I very much respect the prerogatives of this Parliament, Senator Bernini. You have rightly asked why the regulation of the canon has not been included in this law. Senator, Parliament is sovereign: it was in this bill, because the Government had incorporated it in it but, since Parliament is sovereign, that part was rejected by Parliament. So the government has taken up the issue of the canon and inserted it into the bill of stability. More parliamentaryisation of this, what must we do to ensure that RAI really has the chance to be competitive? Finally, no tax in Italy was cut by 17 percent, because the fee was decreased by 17 percent. Why do we keep saying that the fee is a tax? The fee will be paid for 100 euros, distributed in ten or five months, depending on whether you pay the monthly or bimonthly bill. So there was a decrease in the canon. Then, if we are to say that we must promote the evasion of the canon, on this I do not agree objectively, because I think that everyone must pay the canon. Among other things, I remember that the fee you pay in Italy is the lowest in Europe (100 euros). So I think a good job's been done. Some say that this is not a general reform of RAI. Look at the fact that saying that it always takes a lot more is a problem of our country; well-off is a sport very much followed. I believe that we can start from this reform of governance and this reform of RAI management to say that we will finally have a modern RAI, ready with the times and ready to face not only the market, but also all the technological innovations that the future will bring us. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u41	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u42	Madam President, I believe that the things that the rapporteur has said exempt me from a long speech, because he has given Members a precise account of all the objections. I would just like to leave the proceedings of the Senate with a clear assessment of the Government, which does not agree with the assumption of the unconstitutionality on which the Assembly has already expressed itself, nor does it want this text to undermine the decisions and approaches of the Constitutional Court. What Senator Ranucci said is very clear: the powers of management and implementation of the director's directives do not affect the role of the board of directors at all. As for the imprecision that is used by those who want to attack the reform for which the Government appoints, precise that the Government indicates the administrator and the formal appointment is of the board of directors, that therefore has the power to revoke it: the board of directors parliamentary majority. In the case of contracts, I would like to draw attention to what the rapporteur, Mr Ranucci, said and add one point: I have no more information than my colleagues have, but I read that we are talking about procurement investigations. When it is said that the new rules on production and marketing remove the obligation to tender, criticism is legitimate. I believe that the necessary control work to ensure legality cannot be exhausted in the definition of a mode, as we see from the current news, but entrusts RAI bodies with a more incisive duty to strengthen internal controls. Finally, two annotations which do not concern the measure, but which have been cited. On the canon, I recall that there were colleagues in this House, for the truth of various political fronts, I also recall some voices that were then in the Democratic Party Group, who strongly attacked the idea of delegation, evoking the risk that RAI's independence would be undermined, despite the fact that the text denied it. We have taken note of Parliament's will and we have felt, in the appropriate measure of stability - which will come here and which you will then examine - to express the will of the Government which, as you can see, beyond the opinion that can be had on the instrument, does not undermine at all, because it was not in our intentions, the independence and autonomy of the company. Finally, just because I think silence is inappropriate, I address President Gasparri: I believe that the text bearing his name, Mr President, should not be emphasized or demonised. It is a text that reflects the situation of that period, including technological developments in that sector. Inevitably, I think we will have to reflect on this together, with Parliament. The government has said several times that there will be various acts with which we will intervene. We have launched the guidelines for the renewal of the concession, presented an idea of reform of the canon on which the Senate will express itself and reform the governance. Together we will also review the Gasparri law plant. Let me conclude on the call you wanted to make to a newspaper article. I am absolutely certain that the role that President Mattarella has played in the passage mentioned, as in any other situation, is within the full respect of the prerogatives and powers that the Constitution assigns to the President. I do not think we can doubt that the concern that drives President Mattarella's mandate is exactly that of the full regularity of the function assigned to him by the Constitution. If anything, if I were to imagine who had a decisive role in determining that evolution on the Court, I would think of another President, that of a parliamentary group in the House, rather than other figures. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u45	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, pursuant to Rule 96 of our Rules of Procedure, I would ask you not to move on to the Rules of Procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would remind you, again under Rule 96 of our Rules of Procedure, that one member per Group may speak on this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u48	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, this is the further attempt to make a reflection, because approving this law that violates the Constitution is wrong. I believe that Senator Malan offers another opportunity to avoid a mistake and I thank him for that on behalf of our Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u49	If there are no other speakers, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles. Verification of the MALAN quorum (FI-PdL XVII). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1880-B PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles, made by Senator Malan. It's not approved. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u50	Madam President, Article 1 concerns the national service contract. With amendments 1.1 and 1.4 we call for the deletion of this article and subject to some of its amendments, because we believe that there is no need to revise the rules governing the service contract, which is periodically discussed and renewed in order to define some basic guidelines and guidelines concerning RAI. These may relate to aspects related to minors, serve to ensure that people with different skills or qualitative and cultural aspects can be used. The service contract is an important act. What is a bit absurd is that, on the one hand, we introduce innovative rules with this bill, on the other hand, we do not renew the service contract. The service contract is discussed between the RAI and the Government, a text is then drawn up and submitted to the Parliamentary Supervisory Committee to give its opinion. We are very late with the service contract. With Amendment 1.1, which calls for the deletion of Article 1, we want to highlight this incongruity: let us redo the rule instead of renewing the service contract. It's a weird way to proceed. The service contract already exists for a long time, but it is not renewed. There has been a whole process of investigation - I believe that colleagues from the Supervisory Committee are also present today who remember all the discussions and the prescribed passages - and then this service contract is not renewed. So why are we going to introduce innovative rules that frankly do little in substance serve and intervene on some minor aspects that concern, for example, RAI headquarters? I would also ask you to be careful about this, because you want to give a mandate to intervene differently on the premises. I would like to address my colleagues, since each of us lives in a different part of Italy: with respect to the regional offices of RAI, with the latest managements, in particular the director-general who preceded the latter, we wanted to close them and bring them together at some point. If the Regions are reformed and there will be macro-regions there will also be the macro-sites of the RAI, but in the current state the Regions are those that are and therefore it cannot be said that in the Region "x" the seat closes because it has less inhabitants and it joins with another. It is obvious that Liguria has fewer inhabitants than Piedmont. What do we do? 11:59 a.m. (Follows GASPARRI). Does the headquarters of Liguria, which has a regional council, have elected bodies of the territory, have a cultural and social life that must be told? I would not like the case of regional fora, which is referred to in this article, to be used to compress spaces of freedom and pluralism, because the RAI, if it does the public service, must also do the regional service. Then, you can fight waste, decide how many people there must be. There are regional offices of the RAI, in terms of size, in some cities of Italy, which objectively, especially with the current technological evolution, do not require the spaces that are still available to us; but this is a theme. Other is to assume to suppress seats. Let's think, for example, of Sardinia: there are offices in Sassari that are added to those of Cagliari because those who know Sardinia know that the territory is long and vast, so it is necessary to have a point of presence also in other places. We can simplify with technology certain procedures of pouring, but I would not like that also the reference that in this article (in paragraph 3) is made to the foreheads can cause situations of imbalance. Economic considerations should also be made with regard to the fund for structural economic policy interventions and other figures which, in my opinion, should now be revised, because at some point funds are being increased, but next year we will have the energy bill with the fee. On the other hand, we have seen that, in the debate that our colleagues in the House have had on the bill of stability, the rules relating to the canon have been laid down even more precisely. So why do we have to spend money on this Article 1 when we have more money? That's what they say. It is obvious; there is no need for an economic study: if you switch from the canon paid voluntarily (with a strong and regrettable escape) to the canon collected in electric bill, which has been chosen because everyone has an electric service - and those who have not got it from the state and the local administrations because it means that lives in conditions of particular discomfort - an increase in revenue is expected. What is the need, then, to intervene with this article, paragraph 3-b, with appropriations and provisions of figures, since that paragraph stipulates that the amount of paragraph 3-a is increased by 5 million euros for the year 2015 and about 10 million annual from 2016? With the rent in the bill we will have this increase of receipts. Moreover, the House has been discussed that a part will have to go to the same RAI, a part (50 million) will have to be reserved for the local broadcasting and a part will go to the funds for the reduction of taxes. So, frankly, I think the provision of Article 1 is wrong. That is why, in explaining the amendments, I believe that 1.1, which is deleted, is absolutely important and worthy of the attention of this House. It also avoids a waste of additional public resources which are allocated when revenue is expected to increase, precisely through the bill fee. What's the need? When this discussion was held, the government had not yet presented the bill of stability (therefore there was no certainty); by now the provision to the Senate has passed, to the House, more or less between a marchetta and the other - as someone said - is passing, so frankly I believe that there are the cover-ups, sums that are overbearing. In view of this, Article 1 has no reason to be, neither for the part relating to the appropriations of resources nor for the part relating to the service contract which is not renewed. In fact, I make an appeal, Undersecretary Giacomelli: let's do something about the action between the Government, RAI and Parliament. We have a service contract that has been lying for a very long time. I do not remember how many months have passed - the President of the Supervisory Commission is a Member, so I cannot question him in real time - but we are in a crazy delay. And the service contract has its importance, especially today that RAI has 13 channels and, as I recalled in the intervention in the general discussion, it is operational on the level of the various branches of culture (from local cultures, to the cultures of the territory) not only audiovisual, but also theatrical. I am thinking of live performances and those of various kinds and nature, I am also thinking of sport as a factor of social promotion and sport for disabled people, today becoming an important factor and, with the Paralympics, of global importance. There are many aspects in the service contract that should be adjusted to increase the activity and presence of RAI. However, the service contract delays and we issue unnecessary rules to change its nature and regulation. For this reason, Mr President, I believe that the deletion of Article 1 in Amendment 1.1. The entire bill is excessive and wrong. I share some of the points made by Mr Giacomelli, who said that there is a technological development which, as I have said several times, requires a legislative update. The system law of 2004 today faces a different world. Just think about broadband, the Internet and the circulation of the audiovisual; young people do not watch generalist television and inform themselves through social networks and arrive at audiovisual content. There is no doubt that the system needs to be modernized, but we will discuss this elsewhere. The draft law under consideration is not modernised, but goes from Parliament's pluralism to the government's monocracy and, in addition, with improper money intended. We should redefine the service contract rather than do a baroque work of unnecessary standards.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u51	Mr President, I would like to return to the mistakes contained in this draft law, the adoption of which risks exposing Italy to a Community infringement procedure for the violation of the rules laid down under the principle of competition. Since Article 1 of the measure there is a surreptitious attempt to establish that RAI will forever be the provider and the public service operator. This is the fundamental and wrong point of this bill, which had to deal only with issues related to RAI as a state-owned company. Article 1 refers to the "concession" which recognizes the role of RAI-Radiotelevisione italiana Spa as the manager of the public radio, television and multimedia service. Please note that on May 6, 2016 the concession to RAI expires. Public service is in crisis not only in Italy, but throughout Europe and citizens are tired of paying for a public service of which they do not understand nature. It cannot be called public service anything the dealer eroghi. It is necessary to define what must be paid through the fee and there must be the famous separate accounting to assess whether public service programmes will be paid or otherwise, as is the case today. For this reason, the idea of the kettle that Deputy Minister Cattricalà wanted to put in, which would have clearly revealed on the screen programs that are not public service, but are paid with the citizens' money. In the various amendments tabled to Article 1, starting from the first one, it is made clear that RAI will not necessarily be the next operator of the public television service and that it would already be a clear violation of competition rules by now, without preparing an appropriate competition. In fact, already in other countries we are talking about the abolition of the canon, or a plurality of subjects to which it is destined. We know the disaster in RAI of multimedia: in RAI there are 650 websites, each of which paid tens of thousands of euros. This is a lot of money without any contact being made. The RAI on the website is really in a dramatic situation. We think that today there is already a multimedia system that works in Italy and other sites, but do we think we have to allow RAI to throw tens of millions of euros of public money in order to go and make competing private sites? In Germany this has been prohibited: publishers of websites and newspapers have forbidden the public service to invest on the web. The German public service is not authorized to store footage over a week, so as not to make unfair competition with public money to all private individuals investing in that sector. I heard Director Campo Dall'Orto in the Supervisory Committee talk about what he wants to do about multimedia and asked him if he knew what was going on in Germany and whether he was aware that we are exposing Italy to an infringement. Most likely there will be those who will say: they are able to manage Internet sites and public service much better than RAI, at an enormous cost lower than RAI. What do we tell the citizens? That they have to pay 100 million euros because it is the RAI, when there are those who would give that service to 10 million? We want to talk about the radio service, which is another point? Radio RAI costs 120 million and loses 80 million. Isoradio, which was to give the service on the highway, does less listen and is overclassed by national private broadcasters who provide better service and we want to tell citizens that they have to throw 80 million more a year for ten years of concession, which means 800 million euros, for a service that is useless and better done by private individuals? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This was not to be included in this text. The renewal or expiry of the concession should not be confused with what can and must be done in RAI. This bill is legitimate with regard to only the matter that regulates RAI, whether or not it remains the concessionaire of the public service or whether it becomes it only for one part. I do not say that; it has been said by the company that has prepared the statement of RAI Way's listing. Three months before bringing RAI Way to the market, a contract was made between RAI, owner of 100 percent of RAI Way, and RAI Way itself of 4 billion euros, 200 million per year for 21 years, totally useless because RAI doesn't need all those frequencies. If, as in other countries of the world and Europe, it had three or five public service channels, instead of five frequencies it would need one or two and instead of 200 million a year, it would pay 50 or 60. We have already found 150 million savings for 21 years, equivalent to 3 billion euros. This tells us about the risks associated with the failure to renew the concession to RAI. This is the prospectus for shareholders so that they don't get fucked up tomorrow. Whoever wrote this sends a warning. The failure of the grantive relationship between the State and RAI could have negative effects on the issuer, i.e. for RAI Way and, therefore, for shareholders. This is written on page 73 of the statement of notice to shareholders of the sale of RAI Way. The text was definitely worse in the House. Here we have accepted the text of the House because it must be transposed in this way into the Commission and nothing must be changed, even if there are errors. By now, in the third reading we must approve, even if in the Chamber they have mistaken because they have accentuated the double meaning of this bill. There is in fact the legitimate meaning, which concerns what was to be done and which provided to address the issue of RAI and SpA and to include in all points of the draft law to protect RAI - here we are talking about the shareholder RAI who wants to put certain stakes - the following wording: "if still concessionaire of the public service" and not "what concessionaire" of the public service, as if it were for an indefinite time. This law is not enough in Parliament to pass on 6 May 2016, which is the date of expiry of the RAI Convention. We should let Parliament pass on the new concession, which will have to determine what the public service will be and what citizens, beyond the amount of the fee, have to pay as a public service. And since May 7, 2016, this figure could no longer be equal to 1 billion 700 million as it is today, to pay also programs such as "Dancing Under the Stars" or others that have nothing to do with the public service. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] The sum could be 500 million, and then the fee may fall to 30 euros. We'll say it for the next 20 years. We are in fact finishing a twenty-year cycle that had started with analog, with a different system. Today, however, we are talking about the draft RAI law, but the draft law for the new concession must come to the House shortly, and we will have to tell the citizens what we call the public service. When we discuss article 5 in the Chamber, we will talk about this survey, conducted to define what will be public service, with a public consultation done in four months. But the BBC takes two years to conduct a public survey!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u52	Mr President, honestly we are very surprised that our proposal, Amendment 1,16, has not been taken into account, even in the Commission's work. It is an amendment which seeks in some way to give a public spirit to this attempt to reform, in the sense that we believe that this draft law only intervenes on the governance of the RAI, in a wrong way as we have already demonstrated amply, but it does not address the real issues. It keeps out completely, and therefore is by no means a reform, nodes such as the mission of the public service. That was supposed to be the real debate and the real issue we should have focused on today. With this amendment we simply say that, precisely because there is this very serious deficiency, when the concession is renewed, a public consultation should be opened to be carried out by ensuring the widest possible participation concerning the mission of the public broadcasting service, the future strategic choices and the objectives to be pursued by it. This consultation, which could of course also be telematic, would in some way be a way out to try to put the future and also the role of public service in a complex and media society like ours at the centre of public opinion and users' attention. Having defined, in our proposal for a law, (because this is also the case with Article 21 of the Constitution) the public broadcasting service as a common good, at least the possibility of a public debate on the role of the public service and on the mission, when renewing the concession, should be taken into consideration by the rapporteur and by this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u53	I am against Amendments 1.1, 1.4, 1.13, 1.14 and 1.15. On Amendment 1.16 I would like to say to Senator De Petris that he may not have read the text well, but in Article 5 (5) of the draft law, exactly what you are asking for has been included in the House, that is, that the granting of the concession takes place after public consultation, so the opinion is contrary for this reason, otherwise I call for the withdrawal. Turning to agendas, I am voting in favour of the agenda G1,100; on the agenda G1,101 the opinion is in favour of a rewording which includes, at the beginning of the part of the agenda, the words: "A consider whether to envisage" and then, after the words: "radiophonic" and "television" to conclude the period with the following: "Times to exploit all linguistic minorities". Finally, I call for the agenda to be withdrawn, because the text of the stability bill already provides for what it requires.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u54	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u55	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1. AIROLA (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u58	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, the M5S Group will vote in favour of the deletion of Article 1, not because something has not been accepted in relation to the draft law under consideration, but because, as it emerged from the House and the way it had been, we will reject it in its entirety. In particular there are two critical issues, the first of which refers to the national service contract. I find it shameful that the one drawn up in the Parliamentary Commission for the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services in 2013 and 2014 has not been transposed, already lagging behind the deadline of the previous one in 2012. I think that's the soul of the debate that we would have had to face in these classrooms to determine exactly what public service we wanted before we invested money. In this sense, I am also referring to what I sincerely call a kind of marchetta, because it is unique to give money only to some places. I understand that there are problems for the Autonomous Province of Bolzano for the right bilingual public service; however, in light of the fact that we have not established exactly what public service we wanted, to foresee the provision of this extra money seems to me to be an absolutely uneven gesture; probably, before it would have been correct to discuss what public service we wanted. In this respect there is a document which we have all voted unanimously in the Supervisory Committee, a work done with months of hearings and discussions, and now we see proposals put in a drawer that would define the absence of advertising on the channels for children, the absence of advertising of gambling. We will probably implement them with other measures, but it was right to vote first on that, that is, to transpose that document and think together with the new leadership, where the public service that was needed by citizens and the country should go, and after deciding how much money and who to give it to.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u59	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet students and professors of the Technical Trade Institute "Pacinotti" in Pisa, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u60	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u63	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Amendment 1.4 concerns point (b) of paragraph 1.4. For the reasons why we had also called for the deletion of the entire article with the previous amendment, we consider it unnecessary to go and review the rules of the service contract, since it is not renewed so that we are doing an absolutely unnecessary exercise. We believe that at least this point can be corrected with our amendment 1.4 which concerns point (b) of the first paragraph and therefore also some of the specifications made with respect to the modalities of renewal of the service contract, since today RAI is a multimedia reality. We call on colleagues, especially those who do not follow this subject, to reflect: we change rules that we do not apply, neither those that are in force nor those that are innovative that we are going to establish. The problem is this: the service contract is not renewed and we are talking here about its future rules. This is frankly a somewhat absurd way to legislate, and that is why we call for the vote in favour of amendment 1.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u64	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.13, tabled by Senators Rossi Maurizio and De Pietro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.14, tabled by Senators Rossi Maurizio and De Pietro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.15, tabled by Senator Rossi Maurizio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator De Petris, do you accept the call for the withdrawal of amendment 1.16 or do you wish to vote on it?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u65	Mr President, we can only confirm that. To the rapporteur Ranucci I say that paragraph 5 of the article, inserted by the Chamber, to which he refers, certainly speaks of a public consultation, but on the obligations of the service itself. It is as if they would consult on a number of details related to the service contract. What we are asking for is something a little different, which concerns a sort of consultation on the mission of the public radio and television service with respect to strategic choices and objectives. What is provided for in Article 5 is, in our view, reductive and very limited. That is why we maintain the amendment and call for it to be voted on. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.16.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u68	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this amending proposal with the hope, perhaps somewhat naive, that this request will be accepted, announced by Renzi months ago last spring, when he still had the opportunity to declare: "via the parties from RAI", "reform RAI", "become a large independent public service like the BBC". They announced tables of comparison to establish, together with those that are called stakeholders, but that are then interest groups, citizens, employees, who has competence in the field of communication and public service in the cultural public and whatever else, what RAI we wanted. These are those beautiful ads that PD, or who for it, always does, but then they end dead letter. We are trying, even if this amendment is rejected, to stand by this consultation, otherwise you are charlatans, because these things have been promised and have never been done, so you are also liars. In order to avoid this infamous condition and label, it is appropriate that these consultations really take place and it is right that AGCOM, or some other organization or organization, should consider how to lead them, in a manner that is possibly not expensive, effective and above all ecumenical compared to stakeholders. We'll see if you do; I bet you don't: you'll make announcements, no one will hear anything, in fact you'll close certain employees, certain groups or associations still outside the door, because they don't break the boxes, and you'll run the RAI. Forget me. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u69	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.16, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1,100 will not be put to the vote. Senator Cucca, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G1.101? CUCCA (PD). Yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.101 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Bencini, there is an invitation to withdraw on the agenda G1.102 as the subject has already been dealt with. Do you accept or insist on the vote?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u70	Mr President, I can withdraw it. We had tabled an amendment to the stability bill which called for the establishment of a fund for local and territorial issuers. It seems to me that the House has been answered to this requirement with the extratragettito probably obtained from the RAI canon: a part will be given to reduce eventual payments for the over 75, excluding them from the payment of the RAI canon, from what I understand, and a part will be destined to constitute a fund that will then benefit the local issuers. I therefore withdraw the agenda G1.102. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u73	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we reiterate our absolutely contrary opinion on Article 1, not least in view of the fact that none of the proposed amendments have been accepted. The opinion is opposed because this reform of the RAI is part of an idea of the role of reforms that are absolutely anachronistic and contrary to the natural evolution of the market, as, on the other hand, had been announced to us several times and as it is constantly flagged, in words, by this Government and its Prime Minister, in particular. It is a reform that reports under the strictest control of politics, contrary to what is said in the announcements, the public broadcasting service and that even incorporates it, nails it irreversibly to the head of a single subject. When the proposal to be able to open up the role of public radio service manager to other entrusted parties is rejected and it is claimed that it is only RAI that can play this role, it is clear that the opening up to the market is denied. Personally, I have expressed my absolute non-sharing with regard to the existence of a public radio service in a liberal and modern society; in this case, even in maintaining this service, the possibility of this service being put into competition is even denied. When it agrees, the principles of market opening and transparency in the allocation of services - which the European Union has repeatedly transmitted to us and which the Constitutional Court itself has reiterated in several judgments - are applied; but when it is not appropriate - as in this case - that principle is denied and its denial is also crystallized in a rule that, even in the future, will prevent a real openness in the regime of transparency and free competition to other subjects, as it happens in the rest of the Western world and in all liberal and modern societies, as we would like ours to be. This principle is not only present in the reform under consideration: as we move forward along the path of the "strung" reforms, this principle is increasingly being affirmed, with a cast of the country on a political leadership entirely focused on the Presidency of the Council and on the possible relative majority party, that even those who, legitimately, aspire to assume those roles in the future recognize that it is an aberration and distortion of the process, which should be on the contrary increasingly oriented towards liberalisation, privatisation of services and free competition and therefore the efficiency of the service itself. We will therefore be condemned to have a public radio and television service on a subject that we will not be able to change, even if ineffective and inefficient and, in this case, shamelessly politically oriented, as is already the case. Just look at the news reports of the public radio and television service of recent months to realize how, with the due proportions and the due relativity that history requires, we are today in a much heavier and more conditioned information regime than we were eighty years ago. Therefore, the vices of this country are perpetuated, but updating them and unfortunately making them even heavier. We have a public radio and television service that enters our homes and gives the opportunity to those who tell lies to be able to suggest them as true things, not only because of the incredible disproportion in the times of presence in the chronicles of the members of the Government and the majority, compared to the times reserved for the representatives of the opposition, but also for the subliminal message, certainly more effective, by the commentators. I have never heard a commentator critically examine the aspects of the proposed rules - not because they have to be criticized - and very often we anticipate the achievement of the desired result to the mere proposal of the legislation. We heard a few months ago that the tax burden was being reduced: it was simply proposed, but it was already being implemented. The same is true of us, colleagues. For public opinion, the Senate has already been abolished. When you tell a citizen you're going to the Senate, he'll probably be surprised to hear that the Senate still exists. This is because the chronicles, especially those of the public radio and television service, have given the reform as already completed and, when the citizen tries to explain not only that the Senate has not been abolished, because the reform has not been definitively approved, but that it will be abolished by the next legislature - you say "modulated," but essentially will be abolished - the citizen asks us what we are still going to do in the Senate. The same applies to the Provinces, which have already been abolished for public opinion. In fact, no journalist was able to say, even commenting on the literal passages of the legislation, that the Provinces were not abolished, but that the Provincial Councils were replaced by elected Councils with a system of second degree, that is, within the caste that governs the Municipalities and the Metropolitan Cities. When we have a public broadcasting service so enslaved to government power, we really wonder what the state of democracy in our country is. This is aggravated by the fact that today, with a law, it entrusts absolutely no longer modifiable this service to the agency that currently manages it. Therefore we deny any presence of our country in a European context, which would impose instead the celebration of the races. This is what the Constitutional Court has told us that, although we are absolutely guided by certain lines of thought, sometimes it gives us some pills of respect for the European principles of freedom, competition and transparency; but that is not observed either. I think, however, that this law itself will soon have to be the subject of a new constitutional judgment, which will certainly mark all the critical issues, so the next Parliament, in which the Senate will no longer exist, will have to come back to this legislation. The opinion of Forza Italia is absolutely contrary to the approval of Article 1. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u74	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u75	Mr President, I do not explain Amendment No 217, which will be presented by my colleague Mr Cioffi, but Amendment No 2.22. The text out of the Chamber defines the additional possibilities of appointment of the managing director. Clearly, we intend to eliminate the extension of its superpowers, as they are nicely defined, through the abolition of the words "assume," appoint, promote and establish the company location of the other managers, - in addition to the top directors - and, on the proposal of the headmasters and in compliance with the journalistic contract of employment, of the other journalists. The text is also general. This gentleman will decide from the directors of the network and the head of the editors, until the last of the precarious VAT numbers, theoretically. He will not do it, I imagine, because it would really be a huge task; but this is the power that you sanction in this article and that seems really excessive. These perplexities - as I will also say in the explanation of vote - do not concern the person of Dall'Orto, who has just been appointed and who we do not know what he will do and how he will do it, but they concern the mechanism, which, if he had been set up ten years ago, would have pushed you to put the sandbags and take the rifles to defend you from Berlusconi's attack on the public service.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u76	Mr President, Article 2 is the heart of the measure, because it concerns the matter of the powers of the CEO. We have already said, in the overall illustration of our position in general discussion, that this rule, which transforms the Director-General into CEO, is contrary to numerous judgments of the Constitutional Court which, from 1974 to the present day, therefore in forty years, have reaffirmed the centrality of Parliament, whose role must be prevalent. The appointment of a CEO, who may in turn make appointments which do not require a binding opinion of the Management Board, expressed mainly by Parliament, frustrates the role of Parliament itself. The managing director will in fact have to ask for a mandatory opinion, but not binding; therefore he will be able to do what he wants. Because we are appointed by the Government, with this article 2, we give the Government an absolute power: I call everyone's attention to this point; I see before me Senator Zavoli, who by his role is attentive and expert in these matters. Then it will be said that, in the sixties, Bernabei passed to Palazzo Chigi to talk to Fanfani and the history of RAI is full of episodes and anecdotes. In the most recent stages we have created a system that focuses on the role of Parliament. Article 2, of which we call for the deletion by amendment 2.1, alters a democratic, pluralistic and parliamentary principle enshrined in the judgments of the Constitutional Court. The fact that you vote uncritically, in the silence of many, surprises me. It will then be the Constitutional Court - I hope - that resolves this issue, and we discussed it this morning. Moreover, since undersecretary Giacomelli replied to my speech on the subject, I would like to say that I have noted with pleasure the denial that was sent out a moment ago by the Quirinale regarding possible interference on the choices. This means that the Quirinale gave a liar to the journalist of the Republic who, on page 3 of that newspaper, wrote the opposite. Between the word of the Republic and that of President Mattarella, I personally have no doubt on which to choose. It is obvious, but the specific to avoid any doubt: that of Mattarella. It remains that here we distort constitutional principles that we should all respect and sanction.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u77	Mr President, having already explained several points, I shall confine myself to commenting on two amendments: 2.24 and 2.27. On Amendment 2.24, it should be borne in mind that here in the Senate we had established: "Proposes for the approval of the Board of Directors the acts and contracts of a strategic nature" that are of an amount of more than 10 million euros. In the Chamber of Deputies, the "propone" has become "without prejudice to the obligation to submit to the Board of Directors" for approval, a posteriori. Think that additional powers are given to the CEO. Amendment 2.27, on the other hand, added to the transparency of the salaries and remuneration of RAI managers. At the Senate we predicted that information on curricula and gross compensation received by managers would be made available to the public. In the Chamber of Deputies, they pointed out that information should be given to those who received all-inclusive annual economic treatment from the company equal to or greater than EUR 200,000. I have with me the table of what they perceive the approximately seven hundred RAI executives, including the non-journalists and more than three hundred journalists: an executive receives more than 500 000 euros; three more than 400,000 euros; three from 300,000 to 400,000 and twenty-four from 200,000 to 300,000 euros; two hundred and seventy-three executives receive from 100,000 to 200,000 euros, of which nothing will be known anymore. The BBC, in its renewal, provides for the publication of values of 500 pounds. At that time, at least EUR 100,000 could be expected to be published, which is what my amendment proposes. I know that Amendment 2.27 will be rejected, but at least it remains with the acts that we have cut out of transparency more than 90% of the remuneration of RAI managers.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u78	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u79	I am against all the amendments tabled on Article 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u80	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u81	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u84	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would ask you to consider why Article 2 not only contradicts the principles established by the Constitutional Court on the parliamentaryisation of the RAI, but also presents a very serious aspect: if, hypothetically, this draft law were adopted, tomorrow morning I could become a member of the RAI's board of directors and at the same time be a senator. There is no incompatibility. Incompatibility is only envisaged with the position of Minister, Undersecretary and Deputy Minister, but not with that of Parliamentary. And that, then, would lead to saying that I can hold both positions. If the parliamentaryisation of the Board of Directors is something in which I believe and this article introduces a greater prevalence and interference of the Executive in the management of the governance of the RAI, I must say that Parliament must be free to assess and express its assessments correctly. Therefore, a change must necessarily be introduced. No amendments have been tabled, Mr President, on this point. But precisely because they have not been presented, I ask for the deletion of the article, because having introduced the incompatibility to Ministers and Subsecretaries legitimates the interpretation that the parliamentarians can also be a member of the board of directors. And then we reduce the board members to seven, with two government participants. Do you realize that? If we go to vote and re-elect Parliament with the new Italicum and with the new constitutional reform, it will mean that whoever will have the majority will also have all the posts on the board of directors. [[Applause from Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri]] It's nothing more than parliamentaryization! Not to guarantee that social service that the Constitutional Court is talking about! I wonder if we are really at the level of the madness for which we must vote every article, every law, without a minimum of reflection. I believe that if you were to give a little thought to this point, you should either delete the article or accept some amending amendments, so that we can reconsider the issues that have not been addressed, not even by us in the opposition. This is a problem that I am putting now and which neither have we, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, noticed immediately, and that is why no amendments have been tabled. But we cannot avoid the problem and we cannot reason as usual: let us approve it and then correct it. You will all remember that, in 2013, we voted the conversion of a decree-law concerning feminicide with four errors of right to criminal proceedings that we have not yet corrected (and we all agreed to correct them). We've all highlighted the same mistakes, but it's been two years and in the meantime the criminal law goes on, wrong. I ask you, then, whether it is possible to continue to discuss this measure which contradicts in Article 2 the indications of the Constitutional Court and what I believe we all want: a free RAI, correct and unconditioned information, which cannot see the politician on the board of directors or even the hypothesis of a government that can have everything. I would ask you not to vote against it; we could also abstain or make it possible to correct it. I do not know whether the Rules of Procedure provide for the possibility of reopening the time limits for tabling amendments, because this aspect is of unheard of seriousness. Do you realize that tomorrow, with the new Italicum, a majority will be able to decide that one of its members of Parliament will join the Management Board? This is something that we should all avoid. [[Applause from Senator Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u87	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Mr President, this is the small, modest and at the same time arrogant heart of the bill before us. We have not had the courage to address directly and explicitly the complexity of the reordering of the public radio and television system and, at the same time, in the light of the powerful technological revolution, all the issues of communication and information. One has taken a wedge, that of power - a word to which, often, especially here in, we prefer many synonyms, and which instead has its own nobility - proceeding, in coherence with what is done mainly with the other decrees, but also with draft laws (even those of a constitutional nature), in the direction of the narrowing of power to one person, to one party, to one culture, to one thought. Here is everything, there is the summa applied to Italian radio and television: a figure, that of the CEO, with powers conferred without precedent in our country, from the post-war period to today, nor in Europe, in any other democratic situation, except the exception - which everyone remembers - of Bulgaria. I think that's the whole point. I have to say, even in the light of the general discussion carried out in the absolute loneliness of this House - there is now someone else, because we have to push the button - that we feel honored by the inadmissibility of certain amendments, which are those that overturned the pyramid, that they really broke down citizenship, associations, that fabric that must be guarded, both in terms of control and transparency and participation. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u90	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking in an explanation of vote on Amendment 2.1, because it seems to me important to clarify, also with regard to the Government and the rapporteur, and taking advantage of the presence of many colleagues - probably, during the final explanations of vote, many will leave the Chamber, but Matteo Renzi and the Director-General think of RAI - why we will vote on an amendment deleting the article. Despite having had a very constructive dialogue in a first phase with the rapporteur, whom I thank, as well as with the Undersecretary Giacomelli, to whom we have made a 'head' on the stakes that should have defined the characteristics of eligibility for the members of the Management Board, this Parliament has in no way considered proposals of such common sense and intellectual honesty that is gruesome the face with which you now look at your tablets by pretending nothing. I'll explain. We had put some stakes, among other things shared by some constitutionalists - we have auditioned Enzo Cheli, which does not seem to me the last of the authoritative figures who can make judgements on the method of election of the board of directors - compared to this election, which basically sees - I do not repeat it, because I imagine you will be tired: poor people! - two members of government, on a proposal from the Minister for Economic Affairs, and four members of Parliament. As some colleagues recalled, the way voting will be structured - even worse with the combined Italicum-reform - this board of directors will be completely in the hands of the majority. Now, how can this majority guarantee us that it will not be succube of a managing director who - I repeat - in a general sense, is direct expression of the President of the Council? We're not against the idea of a slender board of directors, believe me. To heal the RAI, it needed an operational board of directors, but based its work on competence and independence. You rejected the amendments which provided that those who had been until yesterday in Parliament could not join the Management Board. We saw, then, who you elected on the board of directors: people who have no television competence, apart from Freccero; journalists like Franco Siddi, hated by his own collaborators because he sold them out. The composition of the board of directors is shameful. It is useless, Senator Zanda, to make a nod of dissent: if Berlusconi had done so, I would now see you with the red flag on some barricades. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Ladies and gentlemen, we, like Renzi, wanted members of the board of directors to be streamlined and operational, but the operation is directly proportional to independence and you rejected those amendments. This is shameful, because we asked you only to rule out who had been a member of Parliament or had been a secretariat or a government in the previous parliamentary term. The provision applies only to some poor Undersecretary, like perhaps the Undersecretary Giacomelli, who in three years will not be able to become a member of the Board of Directors of RAI. It has been since the so-called Bulgarian edict that we know what this generates. On that occasion you were silent, because - let us all remember - the President of the RAI Commission was Petruccioli, who pretended nothing. If you really wanted to go in a useful direction to reform the RAI, which is an elephant - it has also landed at the cemetery of the elephants, so much you have dusted it in the last few years - it would have served a competent operating management core. We had identified clear areas of editorial, technology and legal-administrative competence. How did you reject our amendment proposal? In conclusion, although Article 2 has taken on a number of aspects, the common sense of the few - I am thinking of the transparency plan or the characteristics of good repute - we will vote against it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We also call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u91	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.2 tabled by Senator Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.16 (text 2), tabled by Senator Gasparri, in the wording accepted by the presenter. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,17.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u94	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking to announce the vote in favour of amendment 2.17, which refers to the assumption that members of the RAI Management Board will be withdrawn. Paragraph 7 of Article 2 states that such revocation shall be deliberated by the assembly and shall take effect following a favourable assessment by the Parliamentary Commission for the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services. Amendment 2.17, which aims to provide for the Commission to speak with a two-thirds majority of the members, is extremely appropriate in order to prevent a simple majority from withdrawing it. We could, in fact, get to the point where even a minimal majority can take out the unwelcome members of the board. I'd say this would be a very anomalous procedure. If the involvement of the Supervisory Board makes sense, however, it must be provided for the expression of a qualified majority, because otherwise we would always have a further guarantee for the majority. Let us remember that the guarantees provided for the majority alone are typical of a regime and are always present also in the absolute monarchy and tyranny, where the majority is always guaranteed. Democracy stands out when there is a guarantee for the minority as well. In this measure, the guarantee is provided for by a majority only and I therefore believe that we must vote in favour of amendment 2,17.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u97	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, we have already spoken yesterday about the appointment of the members of the board of directors of the new RAI renziana, the new luminous era towards which we are moving, where the President of the Council will shine like a sun in the dark night. Considering that this sun, like everyone else, is destined to be darkened, perhaps you should remember that, when you do these things and, that is, when you impose the will of the one who is supposed to be the majority from here to eternity and knowing that this will not be, you produce a dangerous effect. As Senator Malan also said, when you make the rules only to protect the majority, believing you remain majority for life, we are in a regime. And we have some memories of regimes in this country. Perhaps the role of minorities and oppositions should be enhanced, precisely in order to guarantee the fundamental principle, which is democracy. But, perhaps, in this country of democracy we are beginning to suffer. As we mentioned yesterday, since there are situations that affect not only our country but also other places, it is probably more appropriate to be ready for something that is very easy to implement and, therefore, a great power of decision. Democratic crises, however, are being fought with more democracy and no less. And that's what we see with the RAI bill. We, with Amendment 2,17, simply ask that we respect the principle that the method of appointing and withdrawing a member of the board of directors is not equivalent, because - it was already mentioned yesterday - it means meeting what the Constitutional Court says. Basically, we are calling for a text that presents serious problems of unconstitutionality to be made more constitutional and for the power to revoke to be entrusted to the MEF. Of course, however, we must also remember that the majority appoints from two to three, depending on the case, members of the board with a parliamentary vote and two appoints them to the MEF. Basically, the government and its majority appoint everyone. And since the power of revocation is also at the head of the MEF, it can also revoke the elected minority. Then how does the minority argue that its elected representative is being revoked because he is not in line with the objective of the great sun that is deceiving itself to shine? We, then, should provide for qualified majority voting (two thirds) in the Supervisory Committee to have a minimum counterweight to the possibility of lifting the MEF, also because this could better guarantee the role of oppositions and minorities. What we are doing - I am referring in particular to Article 2 and it has already been said - is a vulnus, which is unfortunately repeated. This government is constantly getting used to total centralization, and we should think about it. President Renzi came here to talk to us about what's going on in the world. Several people intervened. But let's see what's going on in the world? Do we want to think of a different path from that of centralization of power to make decisions immediately? If we do not start from here, from what we do with our parliamentary acts and do not give the example - I repeat that a problem of democratic crisis is fought with more democracy and not less - we do a bad service to the country, to the citizens, to the Italians. What do citizens understand when they see that all power goes into the hands of one man? They understand that this is how you play and win. Is this how we educate our citizens? We should get rid of the idea of centralizing power, even if, in reality, we should strip ourselves of the very idea of power. But this is a speech that we will make again. At this stage, however, let us try to give at least a little respect to the minorities that guarantee democracy in the country. It is minorities that guarantee democracy, not majorities.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u98	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.17, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.18, tabled by Senators Rossi Maurizio and De Pietro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.19 tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.20, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.21, tabled by Senator Gasparri, which is essentially identical to amendment 2.22, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.23, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u101	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I wanted to point out that in the vote on amendment 2.22, which I signed earlier, I accidentally abstained. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 2.24.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u104	Rossi Maurizio (Misto-LC). Mr President, I would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that we are about to vote on an amendment calling for transparency on compensation within the RAI, not only those above EUR 200.00 but also those above EUR 100,000. In this way, the current text of 240,000 means that such control would affect about fifty out of seven hundred people present in RAI. Know that you vote not to give transparency to citizens about the publication of costs, salaries of executives and other games. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In Britain the starting amount is £500, and here it is asked to be over €200,000. Six hundred people will not know, not even for the future, how much they earn and what they do. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u107	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I agree with the extreme opportunity to vote in favour of this amendment. That people who earn twice as much as a Member of Parliament are not even listed and should not have any evidence of it, and that those who earn - for example - EUR 199,000 should not be mentioned on the site seem to me to make little sense when, in other cases such as the municipalities, without looking at other countries, they have to account for EUR 100 or 500. Therefore, frankly, voting against this amendment would be very bizarre. Of course, the majority will, but we are voting in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u110	Rossi Maurizio (Misto-LC). Mr President, the amendment we are now voting on is 2.24. What I have just spoken in an explanation of vote for is 2.27. I therefore apologise for the mistake made. Amendment 2.24 was tabled by us in the Commission to the Senate. In the current text the managing director will be able to conclude contracts up to 10 million euros and will be able to submit them a posteriori to the board of directors. On the other hand, Amendment 2.24 calls for the word "propone" to be inserted: in this way the managing director will have to submit the contracts in advance to the board of directors.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u113	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, on behalf of the Lega Nord Group, I would like to be able to endorse Amendment No 2.27, on which I would like to make an explanation of vote. We are not surprised to find, within the modifications made by the House, certain scumbags, because they are in line with what the Government wants us to do with the reform of the RAI. As we have said this morning in general debate and as we will reiterate on Article 3, we want to free RAI from the obligation to do transparent procurement, just on the days when people were put in jail because RAI still bribes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] What are we talking about? Is this the transparent RAI? I would ask my PD colleagues if they have no more modesty. I know that Renzi is forcing you to vote on this measure and that you must be in line with the master, but there is a limit to decency. I don't know if you read the newspaper articles published yesterday. Maybe I read more newspapers than my PD colleagues read, but there are three arrests for bribes for TV contracts, managers in prison for bribes on TV, bribes and fraud. But that's not all there is. I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that the 14th Commission, in expressing its favourable opinion, has been very clear, saying very precisely - I say this to my colleague Cardinali, who has extended the opinion and is also part of the Commission on the substance - that, for transparency, the procurement code imposes on us (or should impose on us) rules. On the contrary, someone inside the RAI wants to pass the message so that RAI only frees everyone: procurement can be done in cavalry. What are we talking about? We are disconcerted and were already dismayed when we fired RAI reform at first reading in the Senate. Seeing, however, the return of the provision with scumbags within it comes to us to say that there is no limit to indecency. And I say this very honestly, with the newspaper headlines that we all read and for what is happening. I wonder if we're gonna let RAI do chivalry contracts. I don't know. We are not going to approve this text and we are going to support amendment 2.27. In addition, on Article 3 we have tabled specific amendments which we hope - and I am addressing the rapporteur, Mr Ranucci, but also Mr Giacomelli - can help this majority, this government, to become less red in front of the citizens. It's not funny. We are also prepared to reason on this, Mr. Undersecretary. In our opinion, it is worth taking a step forward from this point of view. Otherwise, tomorrow morning, when we are going to have to deal with the reform of the procurement code - or perhaps we are not going to examine it and postpone it until January, but we have not yet quite understood it - we will find ourselves having to declare again the illusion that we have had. In fact, even with respect to the reform of the code of contracts, on which we had been given by the government the opportunity to work with four hands, in the end we return from the House another scumbag. I'm sorry to stick to that provision, but we're actually gonna talk about it. What we are asking ourselves - and I am also addressing the Government - is what they eat in the cafeteria in the House to combine these disasters. And I say this because some sort of measures go back, while in this branch of Parliament we are also working judicially. I am perhaps a little joking, but the reform of the procurement code - we have worked very hard on it and on which we in the North League have also voted in favour - in the text that we are bringing to this House - I say this right away - will have our vote against it. And we do it not because we woke up badly this morning, but because it's not okay, because the House sent us back a text that shouts revenge to heaven. Mr. Undersecretary, shout vengeance to heaven! Even what's been done on the RAI is not good. They put three chicken thieves in jail. I wonder if that's possible. Renzi said he would give the country a modern, pluralistic and independent RAI. But in the measure under consideration, there is none of this. And it's not good because you're running a governance that cries out revenge to heaven. It's your point of view, as legitimate as it is in democracy, but at least thieves leave themselves out of RAI. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u114	He asked undersecretary Giacomelli to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u115	Mr President, I speak only out of respect for this House, because I would not like to remain as true as the statements made by Senators Maurizio Rossi and Crosio. I read from the text that has been distributed to you. The Senate had requested that, in the transparency plan, gross compensation received by managers be published. The Chamber has written, instead, that the gross compensations, however denominated, received from the members of the administrative and control bodies, as well as from the managers of every level, including those not dependent of the company and in any case from the subjects who receive a compensation of 200,000 euros or more. The House has, therefore, tightened up what the Senate had established. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] I'm just saying this to keep you from getting a little more shocked.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u118	IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, I am only asking Senator Maurizio Rossi to be able to subscribe to Amendments 2.24 and 2.27.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u121	AIROLA (M5S). Undersecretary, if in the transparency plan it was defined, as we have asked (and you have partially understood and I give you notice of this), the total transparency on all managers (both bedtime and not), why specify those who receive over 200,000 euros, since there are only five or six? [[Senator Astorre's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u122	Colleagues, address yourself to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u123	AIROLA (M5S). Secondly, this of the transparency plan was present in both the old and the new contracts, more or less at various levels, but the RAI, at present, has never followed the obligation of transparency. What are we talking about, then? [[Applause from Senator Morra.]] That's why we're angry and "putting the government on the cross." You have also removed the sanctions in the House for the CEO and for executives who do not make transparency, who we need, seen and considering that the things that come out of here then are not applied. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u126	Rossi Maurizio (Misto-LC). Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Giacomelli, but it is true that the principle has been extended to managers and others, but always above the limit of EUR 200,000. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u127	It seems to me that the text is absolutely clear. You may or may not like it, and you will adjust accordingly. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.24, tabled by Senator Rossi Maurizio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.26.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u130	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the text is clear, and it is true that it includes all managers. Here, however, we are talking about subjects that are not among the listed figures (i.e. members of the administrative and control bodies, managers and whatever else) and are not part of those categories, otherwise they must be published the same, in any case. We talk, that is, about other types of figures, such as guests and artists or other subjects. I do not understand the reason for a threshold of EUR 200,000 when, among other things, it is people who may appear for a single transmission, as is the case with Varoufakis, who have been paid EUR 27,000 or EUR 37,000 to appear on the RAI for a few minutes. A pay of a few thousand euros per minute is perhaps significant, even if less than 200,000 euros. Let us also put the 37,000 euros of Varoufakis aside, but at least set the threshold at 100,000 euros. There's nothing wrong with that. There are cases where making an artist or celebrity appear can make the RAI much more than the 200,000 euros they give it, but a minimum of transparency is needed. To think of excluding artistic collaborations from this, I would say that it is a further, unjustified act of non-transparency. Do we want to bring in the great character who's gonna make who knows what listens to RAI? If we even give him more than 200,000 euros - in this way we can also give 1 or 2 million - do we not have to publish it? Frankly, it doesn't seem right. Why? Why is he an artist? But what difference does it make? If we bring in, for example, a former President of the United States, we have to say so, and if he is a singer or an actor, should we not say so? Among other things, who determines whether it is "artistic" or not? Maybe we bring in a character who's not an artist and if he sings a song, he becomes an artist. If we want transparency, at least above 200,000 euros, whether we are an artist, a jumper or a scientist, we give a minimum of transparency.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u133	D'ANNA (AL-A). Mr President, I would like to ask the Undersecretary, about this case that arose, if he remembers an old ideological dispute that in the Middle Ages went for the greater: the philosophers distracted on how many angels could dance on the head of a pin. I think you're screwing around with a similar dissertation. Let me explain (then, in the final explanation of vote, I will be even clearer). RAI has revenue of €2,748 million (almost €3 billion), which draws €1,750 million from the rent and €700 million from advertising. 60% of these revenues are spent on goods and services; the remainder, for a total cost of EUR 1 billion, always for staff. Are the size of these numbers clear? The RAI has something like 12,000 employees (Mr. Undersecretary, don't distract yourself, have complacency). Employees are just over 12,000, as well as 550 executives. On the other hand, there are 1,278 non-executive journalists (and I would like to hear about this the opposition colleague who is always on time on some issues) and, despite this army of people, we commission outside, for 60% of the services having the beauty of 10,019 other outside collaborators: 12,000 plus 10,000 is 22,000. Dear Undersecretary, you seem to be Aristotle when you point out to us, in the 'Etica nicomachea', that the House has extended the list of things. Senator Malan is right: put in the rewards of Benigni and Celentano, of all those artists, such as Luttazzi or others, who in recent years have been called to make politics. They are nominally artists, but they are currently camouflaged politicians. But the real problem with RAI lies in these figures. Let me say - and I conclude, Mr President - that Senator D'Ascola could teach us that German lawyers loved to say that a rule without precept is a sword without point. If they don't publish all this data, who's going down? What are you doing, putting salt on his tail? Where's the precept? [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u136	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, I, too, sincerely find this addition made to the Interpretable Chamber. I was talking to the rapporteur about this now. In Article 2 (1) (e) (l) (l) (l) (g) we refer to the curriculum and gross remuneration, however denominated, received by the members of the administrative and control bodies, as well as by the managers of all levels, including non-employees (...), other than the holders of contracts of an artistic nature, (l) - this is a relative who excludes all those who have an artistic function or give an artistic contribution - (l) who receive an annual economic treatment (...) equal to or greater than € 200,000. The latter, which seems to me to be referring to the whole list of managers mentioned earlier (it is a difficult issue and we deserve not to be distracted by Zanda at the moment). There is only one advantage (even if I think that the norm was much more just, correct, simple and synthetic in the wording out of the Senate, which we have established together; this addition really makes me suspicious, because the wording in Italian is interpretable): compared to what my colleague Maurizio Rossi said it is likely that the salaries of 200,000 euros will increase, because with the issuance of bonds by RAI you will be able to pay higher salaries and there will be no more roofs than before. This is the battle that we have carried out, asking the president and the managing director of the RAI, also in light of the fact that not the latter will be elected independently but will be directly appointed by the Government, at least to maintain - as a measure of facade - a salary less than 200,000 euros. This will not happen and they have already told us clearly at the hearing that RAI will issue bonds, so that managers can pay more than 200,000 euros. Maybe at least we can examine these fees in here. [[Applause from Senator Endrizzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u137	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.26, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 2.27, which is identical to Amendment No 2.28, which has been discussed by the House for one hour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u140	FALANGA (AL-A). I would ask you to add the signature to both amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u141	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.27, tabled by Senator Rossi Maurizio and other senators, identical to amendment 2.28, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u144	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, I would just like to say that the voting system did not work, but I wanted to vote in favour of Amendments Nos 2,27 and 2,28.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u145	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.29, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2.30, tabled by Senator Rossi Maurizio, up to the words "determined threshold". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.31 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.32, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.33, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.35, tabled by Senators Rossi Maurizio and De Pietro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.36, tabled by Senators Rossi Maurizio and De Pietro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,37, tabled by Senators Rossi Maurizio and De Pietro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.43, tabled by Senator Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u146	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u148	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we call on you to vote against the adoption of Article 2. I was reading in a newspaper a little while ago the commemoration of Licio Gelli, about which we rightly speak ill, although then the events of the next thirty years have reduced what happened, since after it happened much worse. It is said that Licio Gelli would have been, among others, the author of the plan for the suppression of the Senate, although here there is a vast posthumous correctness; so I read about the Daily Fact: I don't know if the idea was Gelli's, but it took some time. However, I would like to say that I voted against: I say this so that it will remain in the case of interest to some deputy prosecutor. I would therefore like to point out that the rule of Article 2 that we are about to vote on is worse than Gelli's drafts, because it abolishes Parliament's role in relation to RAI. In fact, it remains a "moncherino" council, without powers and irrelevant and then a managing director; so we are beyond Gelli. Now I'm gonna run a check on the papers, which give him a lot of space today, see if there was a Gelli project to get a CEO to name and do everything he did. As for the fact that if you take EUR 201,000 you are being controlled, while you take EUR 199,000 you are not being controlled; I have not even been involved in the debate before, not because I did not think it important: my colleagues who have spoken have clearly said everything that the RAI should do and that is not being done. Why is there this fear of transparency? It centers and only decides one. Article 2 scans and lists the tasks of the CEO. I hope he gets good, even though I met one of his previous editors who told me he didn't find him very good. Saving now what he told me, they are all public and well-known characters (so much I will say, if ever to the interested person himself). So we're giving a lot of powers, without parliamentary control, to the board of directors. Congratulations to those who voted for this stuff, because Gelli was an amateur compared to you. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u151	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, my colleague Cervellini said that this is the small heart of this bill that you dare to call RAI reform. Article 2 intervenes on governance; but in the end the whole operation is simply resumable in the fact that a more plural control is eliminated, on which it had been said of everything (it was said that the RAI had to be removed from the control of the parties), in order to entrust with this operation all the power to the managing director appointed by the shareholders. So everything is in charge of the government. Then there are a number of rules contained within this Article 2 that precisely represent the end of RAI independence, established by law. Not that we had ever believed you much, but in this way there is absolutely no doubt, not even normative. This Article 2 deals with what Article 21 of our Constitution, the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the recommendations of the Council of Europe say that they do not do, that is to say to submit to the Executive the control of the company and the public service; this puts an absolutely end to any idea, possibility or semblance of independence, while maintaining the Supervisory Committee and the role of the parties. So we have the arranged combination of consociativism and division, but at the same time, let it be clear, even if something you will take, commands only one, with a party and a President of the Council who decide everything. Congratulations, this is what you call RAI reform.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u152	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u153	You have the right to do so. Senator Crosio, please make a very brief statement, because there is a broad request to suspend the sitting to take part in the farewell greeting to Mr Cossutta.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u154	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, of course, although I have one minute because Article 2 is important, as it is about governance. We will not vote for this article, because it is diametrically opposed to our vision of a pluralist and modern RAI, on which the board of directors should have had a certain plant. I have said this in general debate and I am now saying it in a nutshell, since the House offers us an audience perhaps a little more interested: in our opinion, the governance of this RAI should have been based on a very different concept, which you have not been able to express, if not at first, as a political slogan, but not in fact. We stress that within this governance, and within the board of directors in a particular way, there should have been a representative of the local authorities, elected in the State-Regions Conference (it was fundamental), a representative elected by the Consumer Council, another elected by the RAI Assembly and so on. What we deliver, as I said in the general debate this morning, is the joke (which is not so much a joke) of the Director-General of EBU, the association that contains all European televisions and represents over a billion people, who, with reference to the mandate, said that if this will be the new RAI's set-up, only in Italy the duration will be so short: "3 years as in Bulgaria". It's not my consideration, it's someone far more authoritative than I am. Vote for this article means, in our opinion, voting for something that is diametrically opposed not only to the forecasts, the will, the aspirations and ambitions of all Italians, but also to the system that today distinguishes modern televisions in Europe. Once again, our country cannot give itself something interesting. I close here, because I see that everyone is in a hurry, announcing our Group's vote against Article 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u155	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Colleagues, as communicated in the short way, I suspend the session until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.42 a.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) (15) Colleagues, since at 3 p.m. exactly at this moment, the Conference of Leaders has been convened, I suspend the sitting, which will resume at the end of the session. (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 15.56 p.m.) We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain. [[Brusio.]] I call on Members to take their seats, because we will vote after the explanation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u156	Madam President, we have come to the examination of Article 3 of the measure, which is interesting because it addresses the issue of procurement in RAI: how they are managed, what the levels of transparency are and how the procurement code is observed. We talked about it and we know that an interesting work was done on the procurement code during the first reading in the Senate, where he then returned for the third reading. An interesting work was done in which the whole Commission worked together. We pulled out a pretty good text. Unfortunately, the work in the House has been lost. Maybe we should check what we do in the House. We are talking about reducing the Senate to after-work by regional councillors; perhaps we could do it for the House and do a service. Apart from that, Mr President, the procurement code should also represent the mantra because it comes from the implementation of certain Community directives. When Article 3 of the measure provides for certain exclusions, we are going to remove the directives because exclusions go beyond the European framework. We should agree, given that Europe is often mentioned and we are told that the same, sometimes, is even further than our thesis and positions. When we impact the RAI, in fact, we exclude certain sectors because we subtract from the tendering procedure, for example, works, services and supplies contracts below the Community threshold. Let us remember that the Community threshold is EUR 200,000 for services, which are basically projects, and EUR 5 million for work. We are talking about considerable figures and, then, why do we want to subtract the works contracted by RAI from the tendering procedures? We should ask ourselves this, because we are talking about important figures and considering what has been going on lately. In the country, in fact, there are repeatedly cases of corruption that, unfortunately, start almost always from contracts because to corrupt you have to have money and this comes out of contracts and not from other parts. In this respect, I would urge the Presidency to bring to this House the discussion of the measure on the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry into Procurement, a work which has already begun and which must simply be brought to the Chamber and then sent to the House. This is another issue that we should bear in mind in our work. I would like to ask the Presidency whether it is appropriate to bring the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry to this House. Returning to RAI, we do not understand why they have made the text worse than the one we transmitted to the House. I repeat that we must be very careful when we talk about transparency. If we make everything transparent and ask for more than one estimate, we do a useful service because we get a benefit also in terms of economic character. Probably in that case the competition allows us to have a better product at a lower cost. So, we have taken away not only the contracts relating to RAI - we remember that it is called the contract code, but it also includes contracts and assignments - but also those of companies participated by RAI, thus extending to this case, also in terms of the marketing of television products. I can understand whether it is production because we are producing an audiovisual product and, therefore, there is a uniqueness of the product; but when we talk about marketing we should be more careful because in this country there has been a well-known case on the marketing of television rights. I am talking about a fact of many years ago, for which there was a trial of a well-known politician who until recently was a senator and now is no longer a senator, even if it concerned another state and were other situations. However, it is necessary to be very careful when doing these things to prevent distortion problems, perhaps due to over-invoices. When there is no competition, competition or transparency it is easy to overwhelm and create black. The problem is, as usual, to avoid creating black. Can we now imagine a path by which these issues are entrusted to the internal part of the RAI concerning anti-corruption? It would have been more useful, however, for Parliament to have imposed a composure. That is why we have tabled amendments to this effect which we shall then examine. We shall now proceed to the vote. It seems to me, however, that we are not doing a good service, not only to RAI, but also to the country and much less to citizens who pay taxes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u157	Madam President, in Article 3 we have tabled two amendments which, in fact, refer back to what has already been said this morning. The question of this leave, left to the question of contracts, leaves us very perplexed. Therefore, one of the amendments deletes paragraph 2 of Article 49-b and the other calls for the inclusion, at least for the companies involved, of this passage which we consider to be fundamental in a more acceptable path. We consider this inclusion in the House rather clumsy from the point of view, not procedural, but substantial. Leaving this freedom on procurement does not seem very logical to us. By the way, for the umpteenth time I recall the fact that the 14th In essence, the Commission gave a negative opinion, recalling, in particular, the Commission responsible for the principles of affordability, effectiveness, impartiality, equal treatment, transparency, proportionality and obligation to proceed within the framework of at least five competitors, who are required to submit tenders if they are to offer services or provide goods within the RAI system. Therefore, these amendments go in this direction and we will see what the Government's views will be. I also wanted to reassure the Undersecretary Giacomelli that my references to the House's food this morning were not related to Mr Rossi's amendments but to the inclusion of these articles. Therefore, the possibility that altered mushrooms which lead to the hallucination of Members of this House may be served at the House's cafeteria was referred to in this article.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u158	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u159	Madam President, the opinion is negative on all the amendments. On Senator De Petris' agenda, G3.100, the opinion was in favour of the following rewording: "to consider whether it would be appropriate to ensure the maintenance of the job by the agents collecting the fee, as is the case in similar situations." The device stops here. Instead, I have a proposal to make to Senator Cioffi, who presented three agendas, about the same point. I propose to Senator Cioffi that the three premises be grouped together in a single agenda with the following arrangements: It commits the Government to take every appropriate initiative to provide that for all contracts, contracts, assignments, assignments, in particular those concluded by RAI and the participating companies concerned with the marketing of broadcasting programmes and audiovisual works, works, services and supplies, RAI strengthens and strengthens all necessary internal controls in order to ensure full correctness and transparency, expanding as much as possible the number of offers to be compared with the RAI.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u160	Senator Ranucci, I invite you to hand over the text of the reformulation to the Presidency so that you can pass it on to the presenter, so that he can be evaluated. When we come to the vote on the agenda, perhaps Senator Cioffi will be able to speak with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u161	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u162	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.1. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.1, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.2 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u163	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u165	Rossi Maurizio (Misto-LC). Madam President, I would like colleagues to know that the text approved by the Senate provided that: • the CEO shall, in compliance with the provisions on the protection of personal data, publish and update the following information on the holders of posts. So it had to be something continuous, instead the Chamber has been inserted the phrase "at least every year", so we will know this data at the end of a year. With regard to Amendment 3.4, I would like to say that in my opinion we had done an excellent job in the Senate with the rapporteur, Mr Ranucci, by saying that: The publication of the details of the acts of conferral of managerial duties, of collaboration or of advice to external subjects in any capacity to RAI-Radiotelevisione italiana SpA for which a compensation is provided, complete with indication of the subjects of the perception, of the reason of the assignment and of the amount paid, is a condition for the acquisition of the effectiveness of the act and for the liquidation of the relative compensations. I should like Members to know that Amendment 3.4 restores the text approved by the Senate, which has been deleted in the House, probably because it is considered too strict. Therefore, as far as I have just announced, there will be no control in this respect.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u166	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.3, tabled by Senators Rossi Maurizio and De Pietro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.4, tabled by Senators Rossi Maurizio and De Pietro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u167	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u169	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am voting in favour of Amendment 3.5, which calls for the deletion of Article 49b, which is introduced within Article 3 of the draft law and which provides for the exclusion from the application of the public contract code, i.e. from those fine rules on transparency which are highly praised and which should be dealt with in the measure amending the procurement law. A great boast of these things is made; the National Anti-corruption Authority comes into play and then an article is prepared that excludes a wide type of contracts that RAI can make from the application of this discipline; moreover, since it did not seem enough, in addition to RAI also included the companies fully participated by the same. Frankly, it seems to me something different from what everyone is talking about: this great filling your mouth with transparency, competitiveness, enough with the positions of privilege; I must say consistently with other sectors where you insist on finding all the tricks in order not to tender, such as the motorway dealers.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u170	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.5, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.6 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.7, which is identical to Amendment 3.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u171	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u173	CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, Amendment 3.7 is one of those that we discussed earlier. This is, as has been said now, a small part added to the House of Deputies. We remind ourselves - not to us who should know, but perhaps to someone who listens to us from home - that when a text comes back from the other House, we can only intervene on the modified parts. And the only modified part in this case was to have entered in addition to RAI, which can therefore make contracts excluding the provisions of application of the Code of Contracts, even the companies fully participated by it. This amendment was therefore intended to limit the damage: really a little warm cloth. It is true, as has been said, that it is a particularly cruel moment for what concerns the procurement situation and all the corruption related to it; and it seems that by now the only solution is to ask Canton, a person whose competence we cannot doubt, but it seems almost like he is the one who has to solve the problems of the world. We are badly reduced if there is to be someone who has to solve the problems of the world and we are not able to make the world learn to go on for itself. Perhaps people who do these things should be caught and punished in a consistent manner. This amendment only seeks to exclude participating companies from the norm, because it is true that in this country, as has been said, we do not really control what happens. The case of motorway concessionaires was mentioned earlier, but it seems to me that these concessionaires were pardoned by the Berlusconi Government some time ago, when the duration of the concessions was extended to them, which was also done by the Government of Matteo Renzi. So it seems to me that the world hasn't changed at all. We hope to start changing it all of us who want to do so, otherwise the only hope is that we will go to the government, and then they will be green rats.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u174	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u176	Rossi Maurizio (Misto-LC). Madam President, again on Rule 3, I would like to remind all the senators that what I said before the paragraph that had been deleted in the Chamber had also been passed in the Chamber; we have all voted in favour of it and it has been deleted in the House. With regard to Amendment 3.8, the addition of the companies fully owned by the same company is the most dangerous point, because objectively if the RAI no longer had the public service after 7 May, it could be observed that it should no longer be managed with the citizens' money. But that is not the case either, because RAI is public property, so any losses would always be borne by citizens, but it is not said what the costs of the companies fully involved will be.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u177	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.7, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators, identical to Amendment 3.8, tabled by Senators Rossi Maurizio and De Pietro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.9, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.10 tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,100, tabled by Senator Crosio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.12, tabled by Senator Rossi Maurizio, identical to amendment 3.101, tabled by Senators Crosio and De Pietro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.13, tabled by Senators Rossi Maurizio and De Pietro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.14.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u178	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u180	CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, with Amendment No 3.14 we would like to delete the part in which we are talking about related contracts, connected or functional to the contracts referred to in paragraph 1 (b) above. We are talking about contracts and therefore of contracts and assignments - let's reiterate, because sometimes we confuse words - of works, services and supplies (for example, for works we can understand the restructuring of the RAI headquarters, a service can be a project or anything) connected, connected or functional to the contracts referred to in paragraph 1...: it means everything and nothing. When we leave such a rule open to interpretation, we can put everything inside; we could also hypothesize, according to the example I used to make, to restructure the RAI headquarters without applying the procurement code. The rules, if we were good (if we are, and sometimes I doubt that), should be written in a few words, possibly clear, and should not be interpreted by a lawyer, a lawyer or anyone who should then apply them. Are we able to make a clear standard? The fact that the rule is not clear could also lead us to the situation that was first determined, in Article 2, with reference to the limit of 200,000 euros, so it was not understood whether it was connected to the managers, to all or only to the providers of services like Bruno Vespa, to the ancormans. Since the rule is not clear, the Government has said that it is intended to be extended to all, so also to the leaders; but we have asked some lawyers, along with Senator Rossi, and we have been told that instead, it does not refer to everyone. It is necessary to be clear, because if an outsider, a lawyer to whom we ask for advice, tells us that the norm refers only to some, while the government says that it refers to all, the authentic interpretation of the norm who makes it? That's always the problem. Since we are not able to write laws and the country is submerged by laws, perhaps the first thing to do would be to write few laws and not make laws continuously. In fact, we should clean up pretty good. It would be very nice to think that tomorrow we make a law in which we predict that everything written in the laws, from the word "exception" onwards, will be abolished until the end of the paragraph: it would be a Copernican revolution and who knows what would happen in the country. Returning to the specific subject of the amendment, if we delete the words 'connected, connected or functional' we would be much clearer. This is the intention of this amendment: to ensure that the rule is clear and uninterpretable, because whenever we make it interpretable, corruption can be buried there.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u181	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.14, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.15 tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.16 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3,18 tabled by Senators Rossi Maurizio and De Pietro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.19.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u182	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u184	GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, I would ask that the vote be taken separately: the first part, up to the words "ninety" and the second part, from the words "and the word" until the end of the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We have to ask the presenter whether he accepts the split vote and then the House has to decide whether to allow the split vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u185	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u186	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u187	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am against the split vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I am going to ask the House to decide whether to allow the split vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u188	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u189	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u190	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I do not agree with Senator Calderoli: I am in favour of a split vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u191	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for a separate vote on Amendment 3.19.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u192	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u193	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 16.24 p.m. and resumed at 4.444 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u194	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request for a separate vote on Amendment 3.19. Verification of GAETTI quorum (M5S). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1880-B PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the request for a separate vote on Amendment No 3.19, tabled by Senator Gaetti. It's not approved. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.19 tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.20 tabled by Senators Rossi Maurizio and De Pietro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.21, tabled by Senator Rossi Maurizio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator De Petris, do you accept the rewording of the G3.100 agenda proposed by the rapporteur? DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G3.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now move on to the agenda for G3,101, of which the rapporteur has proposed a rewording which also includes the text of the agendas for G3,102 and G3,103. How do the presenters express their views on this matter?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u195	Madam President, we first tabled a number of amendments relating specifically to the contractual provisions and therefore to the arrangements for drawing up contracts relating to RAI, which have not been accepted. We understand the extreme urgency that citizens feel so that this reform goes into port, because it will produce an increase in the cultural quality not only of RAI but also of all citizenship and therefore we are all moving towards this luminous goal. Since the amendments have not been adopted, however, we have tried to put them back in the form of agendas. The original provision of the amendments was partially contrary to the legislative provisions of Article 3, which was voted on and because of which the amendments were rejected. The rapporteur's wording, which I thank for his cooperation, is a half-baby. The legislator does not have the courage to speak clearly and then, since we did not have the courage to say that things must be done properly, we leave this task to the RAI's internal control. It is a way of acting a little transversal, as if, in a sense, we washed our hands of it, given what happened to the House. Nevertheless, the rapporteur's rewording gives RAI the responsibility to ensure a sufficient level of competition and transparency in order to ensure, or try to ensure, that these practices cannot be carried out. Clearly, we will be very curious to see what internal procedures will be put in place by the RAI and therefore to understand who will be responsible for implementing what is reiterated on this agenda. Of course, we will ensure that the RAI implements what is planned on this agenda and we will ask you to know who is responsible for what is planned so that you know who to blame if things happen that do not have to happen. We therefore accept the reformulation, albeit reluctantly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u196	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G3.101 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u197	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u198	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u199	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to address the rapporteur because, perhaps for my distraction, I did not understand the solution adopted with reference to the remarks made by the 14th The Commission, of which we have also spoken in the Commission, because the 14th The Commission, therefore, not the Forza Italia Group and not the oppositions, made comments in relation to Article 49-b of the single text of the broadcasting services, noting that it should have been otherwise formulated. We also talked in the Commission about a decision, so I would like to know from the rapporteur how the matter has been resolved. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gasparri, we are now in the process of making an explanation of vote. You did not take part in the previous debate. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Given that we are voting against it, it was also useful to understand why there was a Commission remark. Therefore, the vote against Article 3 comes not only from the overall criticism on which I do not dwell, but also from the fact that the European Union's political Commission has made some comments on issues that are not irrelevant (wire, transparency and related procedures). So, that's a further motivation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur intend to reply?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u200	Madam President, I would like to remind you that, in any case, it is expected that contracts will be awarded in accordance with the principles of affordability, effectiveness, impartiality, equal treatment, transparency and proportionality, and we believe that this is sufficient. With the accepted agenda, we have even more emphasis on our position.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u201	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u202	Madam President, we believe that we insist on the deletion of the article, in the context of a negative and critical view of the entire unconstitutional establishment of the bill. Therefore, I would ask you to vote in favour of our amendments, and in particular of the 4.1, which is deleterious, because we believe that it is decisive for further distortions that are introduced by this legislation. It is useful to reflect in these final hairpins. The Constitutional Court will erase this law anyway. Take this into account.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u203	Madam President, I would like to make the House aware of my amendment 4,100, which, for the umpteenth time, attempts to stimulate this House on the long-standing issue of gambling. With this amendment, we call for an absolute ban on the transmission of commercials in favour of gambling. Something has been done, but it is not enough. And I also take the opportunity to make an appeal. A number of draft laws have been drawn up in the competent Commission which provide for the removal of advertising on gambling on television and on the Internet. We held two meetings and recognized the problem, incardinating to the Senate and also to the House the related bills. Here arises a problem, which is not Parliament (Room or Senate). It is, however, the summits of the Chamber and Senate, that is to say President Grasso and President Boldrini. If Grasso does not call Boldrini or vice versa, they do not agree on which branch of Parliament we must continue to deal with this issue. Then to Mrs. Boldrini, who often says that we are washing and lazzaroni, we postpone this statement and, therefore, to you and to Grasso, let's say that they are probably washing and lazzaroni. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crosio, these demands can be made at the Conference of Leaders. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). I would like to point out that in July, at the first reading in this branch of the RAI reform Parliament, one of my agendas had been signed by all the groups; it was unanimously voted, with the Government's commitment to continue this important request. This has been done in the Commission, but everything is still, and not because we do not work but because the President of the Senate and the President of the House do not call and do not agree. They are, however, good at saying that we do not do our job. I repeat, then, and I appeal to you, Mr President, who probably understands more than they do - I hope - the problem that is bothering us, because it is annoying to many Italians. Ludopathy is a very serious issue. We want to work: they put us in a position to do so. I do not know whether this amendment will be taken into account - I hope so - but, in any case, it has been tabled by the Group of the North Legacy to stimulate the summits of the branches of Parliament to move. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u204	The opinion is opposed to Amendments 4.1 and 4.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u205	The Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u206	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.1. Verification of the MALAN quorum (FI-PdL XVII). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1880-B
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u207	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u208	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u209	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, we will be voting in favour of Amendment 4.1, because the delegation to the Government contained in Article 4 seems very excessive. The Commission is empowered to amend the single text of audiovisual and radio media services without knowing what it will do. We are told that this should have been a draft parliamentary law, and it seems to have been so. In fact, instead, we have acquired a government text to which some amendments have been tabled that were then accepted, but the installation and vision of the public service and governance (since this bill deals with governance) have not been touched and those of the Government have remained. Any amending proposal to change the substance of the nature of the appointment and subsequent interventions has not been accepted. We found ourselves working in the Commission on a basic text that was that of the Government. Amendments have also been tabled on public service contracts, because there is a need in this House and in the RAI Supervisory Committee to define what is public service. The delegation contained in Article 4 of the measure takes as its starting point the issue of public service. I repeat that the contract is not signed, although we voted together during the first reading. This should bother you too, as it degrades your work. There is at least one vague reference here, although we would have preferred a precise constraint. But not only that. The provision referred to in paragraph 2 (b) has been amended to the Chamber of Deputies with the addition, with reference to the transmission of content specifically intended for minors, of the following words: But no more definitions! I call on the Government to accept serious indications from Parliament, especially in the area of minors and gambling. What the hell? I repeat that the 5 Star Movement will vote in favour of the deletion of Article 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u210	I put to the vote Amendment 4.1, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 4,100. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u211	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u212	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u213	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, on the matters covered by the measure, we should no longer give delegations to the Government, but rather have the answers from it in relation to the commitments made publicly. On gambling we have already had the recognition and admission that advertising of a sector that impoverishes families, makes citizens sick and causes cultural degradation cannot happen. We have had this measure of civilization on tobacco for half a century now. On gambling, although it is clear to the public, to the citizens, to the families and also to the parents concerned for their children even underage who dare today, we should see a government already ready, at least for an electoral interest. And, instead, we continually notice that the stone is drawn and the hand is hidden; they make proclamations and betray their promises. And we also saw it in the law of stability. We have seen the haggling: we could give a little scissor to the advertising, but if we first go to paralyse the powers of the mayors and the regions who, with difficulty, are trying to stem such a disaster. Then, it is no longer possible to trust a government that, when it comes to protecting health, young people and entrepreneurs - many entrepreneurs today would like 17 billion to be spent on clothes, shoes, to eat a pizza every now and then, to go to the cinema, to fix a window in the house or to renovate the apartments - denies everything. We can't agree to delegate to the government. We cannot accept the continuation of the paradigm for which laws are made in a secret agreement between the government and the gambling lobby. We want the laws to be done with the citizens, we want Parliament to do with the citizens. Parliament is now empty of sense, like an empty can of tuna. Our mission here is to unveil fiction and nail responsibility. A short time ago we saw the rapporteur and the government against this amendment. And, then, we need to see if they really support the abolition of advertising in this House too, since we voted on an agenda no later than a few months ago. When it comes to making commitments and asking for promises we all agree, but then when it comes to putting a bond we are no longer. It will not be a great step forward because, however, we will have to wait for an intervention and we could have confirmation of inertias and reluctances. At least, however, we will have a signal that can no longer be expected and that those bills, framed and stranded immediately in the Finance and Health Commissions in the Senate and in the Finance Commission in the House, are the highway. Progress can only come if you have a shot of pride in these classrooms. It is up to us today to prove it. We will therefore vote in favour of this amendment and call on all men of good will to do so. Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u214	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u215	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u216	RANUCCI, rapporteur. Madam President, I would like to point out that the draft stability law provides for a ban on the advertising of gambling until 10 p.m. I just wanted to give this clarification to the whole House. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Senator Crosio's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u217	Senator Crosio, you will then have the opportunity to express your position on the matter. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,100, tabled by Senators Crosio and De Pietro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u218	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u219	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u220	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, we heard a lie earlier. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Advertising on gambling has not been abolished. We are waiting for a decree that will arrive in four months, as in four months the deadline for the State-Regions Conference will come. The message is clear. If in four months you have not muzzled municipalities and regions, we do not abolish advertising. [[Senator Endrizzi mentions a gesture of contempt]] That's the shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Endrizzi, please use more appropriate expressions and make less insulting gestures for yourself and for the House. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Shame is the mockery of citizens. Everything is postponed in four months, and if we don't have what we want, we don't give you anything. The government had made clear commitments and, instead, are excluded from the ban specialist channels, sportsmen, football matches, through which our children will still be bombarded. These are poisoned crumbs. You eat them. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u221	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u222	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u223	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, this article, against which we shall vote, concerns delegation to the Government. During the debate at first reading, we limited the terms of the delegation. However, we believe it is a mistake to delegate to the Government. The delegation shall refer to the reordering of existing rules. At the beginning, with more ambiguous formulas, it was attempted to use the delegation as a Trojan horse to review the overall legislation without a transparent debate in Parliament, to which undersecretary Giacomelli referred, saying that the issues of the future will be addressed in Parliament, as this is a sector with a strong technological evolution. This delegation, although limited, retains its ambiguity rate and is proof of your surreptitious attempt to make this legging a tool for a double forcing. The first forcing is that, which we have already talked about on the unconstitutional CEO, to have the unique batching of Palazzo Chigi, Renzi, RAI, against which Giulietti, the Italian Press Federation, the Usigri and the various speakers of bibs to protest are totally silent, perhaps because they think they are among the partitioned by the one party of Palazzo Chigi. And then there is the issue of delegation, and I claim that we have helped to narrow it down, but it remains an element of unnecessary ambiguity. This government, in fact, being smart, could try to use it surreptitiously. In that case, we will apply ourselves to the seat of Parliament's opinions. However, I want to put to the record the limitation of the delegation and, in any case, its continuing inopportunity that leads us to vote against Article 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u224	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u225	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u226	Rossi Maurizio (Misto-LC). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, apart from what Senators Endrizzi and Crosio have said, I would like to remind you that we are talking here about a public service company until 6 May 2016, which takes 1 700 million canon. I am also part of the parliamentary intergroup against gambling, which is across every party, between the House and the Senate. We are against all forms of advertising gambling on television, public and private. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] We are all against the inclusion of advertising. It's much worse here. We are talking about putting gambling advertising in the public service until May 6. And whoever gets it after May 6th must not be able to insert it. Advertising is not included in sports programs and events abroad. We want, on the one hand, the canon and, on the other, advertising. RAI is private when it is convenient and public when it is convenient. It's shameful! We are the only state in Europe that places gambling in the public service. Nobody else does that shit! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Casaletto.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u227	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u228	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u229	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, we shall vote against Article 4, which, as we have already explained a great deal in the question of constitutionality, provides for a considerable number of legislative delegations on very different and sensitive matters, and in particular on the single text. We are faced, on the one hand, with a reform which has limited itself to merely putting its hand on governance and then, once again, in order to do something new, to a not small but rather substantial number of delegations on very different subjects, which we clearly see as an excess of delegation. In many - reread the text - paragraphs of this article the delegation is really very generic and can evolve in one way or another. I am thinking, for example, of the provision concerning minors, which we consider to be very general and which obviously required further study. We are also not talking about a series of inconsistencies concerning the distribution - we cannot understand how and with what extent - of television broadcasts which also concern the autonomous provinces and linguistic minorities. And I could continue, especially with regard to the whole part of the financial profile of all intervention on the public service. That is why we express our opposition. All these elements in the delegations had to be the subject of the reform; they had to be the subject of a discussion, discipline, a process that had to be - this yes - parliamentary and not once again constitute a blank delegation to the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u230	I put to the vote Rule 4. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u231	Madam President, the fundamental and extremely serious point in Article 5 has been incorrectly inserted by the House, not being present in the text approved by the Senate. I refer to paragraph 5 of Article 5, which reads as follows: The Ministry of Economic Development, with a view to entrusting the granting of the public radio, television and multimedia service, initiates a public consultation on the obligations of the service, ensuring the widest participation of the public radio, television and multimedia service. First of all, I continue to believe that this provision has been improperly included in the RAI bill; this had to be done well in advance, talking about the new concession from 7 May 2016, for one or two years. The BBC opens the public consultation two years earlier, while we are four or five months away from the expiry of the 20-year RAI concession and we are now talking about starting a public consultation. We also know that the House, when examining the draft stability law, is approving - I do not know exactly when - a financing for public consultation, which must be carried out - I do not know when it will start - in sixty days. I wonder, however, what debate can be held in sixty days. That is a mockery and, therefore, we do not want to do it; or we have an extension of six months or a year from the House. We extend the RAI concession by a year and in the meantime we do a serious job. We've been talking about this job since 2013, when he was Deputy Minister Cattricalà. There was talk of what had to be done in view of the expiry of the public service concession. Well, I do believe, however, that this consultation will have to be done, but we cannot delegate to the Ministry of Economic Development the decision of who will be invited to participate and what questions will be asked. I said in the Commission that it was up to us to put questions to the people to be heard, to actually listen to what problems have developed over the twenty years of public service provision, to give the public service for the next x years - we do not know, indeed, whether it will have to be five, ten or more years - and in a completed way, analyzing what the public service of the future will actually be. On the other hand, we are not doing this and we entrust the consultation to the MISE, which will do not know how, without giving any indication. In the explanation of vote, I will present specific proposals for how this consultation should be done.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u232	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u233	Madam President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u234	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u235	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.1. Mr Russo (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.1, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.2, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators, identical to amendment 5.3, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.4, tabled by Senator Rossi Maurizio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.5, tabled by Senators Rossi Maurizio and De Pietro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u236	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u237	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u238	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Amendment 5.6 is intended to highlight a further mistake. In the course of work, this rule assigns the functions of Managing Director to the Director-General in office. Therefore, the existing situation is transformed, born with the law in force and voted by Parliament, considering that the Board of Directors has real powers; suddenly, the Director-General becomes CEO with the powers mentioned above. We call for this possibility to be abolished in such a way that, at least as a subordinate, this arrangement enters into force from the next appointments and not with a change in race, which shows that the only intention is to transform the lottified by the current Government into a batcher on behalf of the Government and the single party of the lottification. On this issue, you show your ears as a merchant, but this is the reality: we move from a regime of pluralism to a real regime, which from the Constitutional Court to Parliament, from the prize to the single list to the RAI, sees a single hegemonic position. When one too much wants, nothing tightens and by banking probably Renzi and others will finish their mandate sooner than they hope and think.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u239	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.6 tabled by Senator Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.7, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.8, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.9, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.20 tabled by Senator Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.11, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.13, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 5.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As the presenter asks for the vote, I ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.12 tabled by Senator Crosio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 5.14, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As the presenter asks for the vote, I ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). [[Brusio.]] Colleagues, it is not possible to scream in this way, because it becomes difficult to follow the work we are doing. I ask you to moderate the volume of the voice. Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.14 tabled by Senator Crosio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.15.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u240	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u241	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u242	Rossi Maurizio (Misto-LC). Madam President, at least I wanted to try to help the Minister for Economic Development. And this amendment could be very useful if it were rejected. I hope it will be approved, but if it does fail, it could be a good sign of how the consultation that has appeared in the House should take place, and that would save us some time. First of all, what will be the subjects to invite? I think all the players, up to now, have been competitors of the current public radio and television service concessionary, so that they can express the problems they have encountered during the management of the twenty years of public service and what damage they may have had from a competition born from a fee, alongside which a very strong percentage of advertising, the highest in Europe, has been placed. And then I mention trade associations, consumer associations and trade unions in the sector. The consultation will then have to be clearly extended to citizens and placed on the web and will have to ask questions: does the public service - for example - have to be information only or can it also address other areas? Do citizens know everything that is being put into RAI's separate accounts today as a public service? Do they share that it's public service? Are they happy to pay for this? Given the evolution of the technology system, how many years should the duration of public service provision be? Five, ten, fifteen, twenty years? We ask the citizens how much longer they want to pay the fee. How many TV channels should the public service operator have compared to the current ones? We think - for example - that in the rest of Europe there are three to five channels, whereas in Italy we have fifteen. How many radio channels should the public service have? Should the public service be managed by a single concessionaire or by several concessionaires, as is the case in other countries? Should a tender be provided for the granting of the public service in order to provide the best service at the lowest cost to citizens? Well, there are many other points. I think this is a contribution which I hope the MISE will take into account and I repeat that - in my opinion - the best thing is to extend the granting of RAI for a year, so that we can have a serious consultation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u243	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u244	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u245	GAETTI (M5S). I call for the amendment to be voted on in separate parts: the first part, up to the words 'trade union' in the sector, and the second part, from point (b) to the end of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u246	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u247	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u248	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I wanted to make the same request as Senator Gaetti.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u249	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u250	I assume Senator Calderoli wants to intervene to say that he disagrees with the request made.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u251	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, you read my mind.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u252	So let us verify the opinion of this House. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for a separate vote on Amendment 5.15. Verification of GAETTI quorum (M5S). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1880-B PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the request for a split vote made by Senator Gaetti. It's not approved. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.15 tabled by Senator Rossi Maurizio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.16, tabled by Senators Rossi Maurizio and De Pietro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.17, tabled by Senator Rossi Maurizio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.1, tabled by Senators Minzolini and Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). At this point, ladies and gentlemen, while waiting for the President to come and give us the announcements on the timetable for the work of this House, I will suspend the sitting for ten minutes. [[Comments from FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut Groups.]] Colleagues, I can suspend the session for five minutes. I therefore suspend the sitting until 17.34. (The sitting was suspended at 5.29 p.m. and resumed at 534 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u253	The Conference of Leaders approved changes to the current calendar and the new schedule of work until 28 January 2016. Today's session, without closing hours, will be removed at the end of the examination of the draft RAI reform law. The discussion of the bill of delegation on procurement, already planned for this week, is postponed to the resumption of work after the suspension for the Christmas holidays. In relation to the progress of work in the Chamber of Deputies, the Assembly will not hold a meeting on Monday 21 to allow the Budget Committee to examine the financial documents. The standing committees will have to send their reports to the 5th Commission by 2 p.m. on Monday 21, and the deadline for tabling amendments is 4 p.m. on Monday. The examination in the Assembly of the drafts of law of stability and budget will begin on Tuesday 22 December, at 9.30 a.m., with a single sitting without scheduled closing hours and if necessary, if necessary, on Wednesday 23 December. The Assembly will meet again from Tuesday afternoon, 12 January. In addition to the delegation on procurement, the draft law on the integration of foreign minors into sports clubs and the limits to the renewal of the mandates of the ICON, already provided for by previous timetables of work, will be examined. The schedule of work of the week from 19 to 21 January includes the decree-law ILVA, where transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies, the follow-up of the framework law on international missions, as well as the Mattesini motion on the international abduction of minors. On Wednesday 20 January, the Permanent Commissions will be renewed: at 1 p.m., the Commissions will be convened from 1 to 7 p.m. to 3 p.m., from 8 to 13 p.m. to 4 p.m. on the 14th Commission. Groups will have to send their nominations to the Presidency by Monday 18 January. On the afternoon of Thursday 21 January the question time will take place. In the week from 26 to 28 January will resume the examination of the bill on civil unions. The deadline for amendments was set at 1 p.m. on Friday 22 January. Following the discussion of the draft laws establishing the days of remembrance dedicated respectively to the victims of immigration and the victims of the mafias.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u254	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u255	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u256	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to propose an alternative timetable. As far as I am sure it is important to include foreign children in sports clubs, I think that there are a little more important issues. Since the PD made a "shot" saying that it was absolutely necessary to make a Commission of inquiry into the Italian banking system, then do it. I suggest that your proposal, filed by Senator Marcucci and flagned so much by Senator Stefano Esposito, passes into pole position and becomes the first topic on the calendar. After that, always on the subject of banks (I know it bothers you the topic banks and we want to keep it there) should also start the Commission of Inquiry on the Mount of the Paschi of Siena, another Italian bubbon whose hole continues to widen. Since the proposal was presented only in 2013 and has only been framed for a few months, it should be closed and brought to the Chamber. Therefore, the first thing to do on Tuesday, immediately after the holidays, is your Committee of Inquiry, then that on the Mount of the Paschi of Siena and, thirdly, a measure that has been approved by majority in the House, that is, the one relating to class action. So let's see if, as you said, those who have been conned by the banks really can't take responsibility action against them. Let us bring class action to the Assembly and give an answer to the 12,500 people you have taken by decree-law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u257	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u258	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u259	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, I said earlier, when you were not present, speaking of the RAI, that we finished public works in the Commission, examining the draft law setting up a bicameral committee of inquiry into public procurement. It is a work on which the Commission has expressed itself by a very large majority, so much so that the text has been fired by the Commission unanimously. So now it is only a matter of bringing him to the House and discussing him, since he has obtained the unanimity of the Commission. I think it is really appropriate at this time to include this issue because, as a bicameral committee of inquiry, it will then have to go to the House. It seems to me that the time is ripe and that the text has been rejected unanimously by the Commission. I therefore call for it to be scheduled in the first week, from 12 January, or in the second week, from 19 to 21 January; the important thing is that we discuss it in this House, so that we close this issue on which there is a great convergence on the part of all the parliamentary forces.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u260	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u261	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u262	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Thank you, Commander! As far as the timetable is concerned, I would like to ask for some clarification. You said that we will meet in the 5th Commission on Monday to examine the draft stability and budgetary laws, but in fact the deadline for amendments was set at 4 p.m. If we calculate a couple of hours at least for the offices to fascinate the amendments, we will start working around 18-19; then we will go to the Chamber the next morning at 9.30 a.m. Now, in the Budget Committee for some time, we have been wondering how you shape this House's timetable. We would at least like to understand how it is, because I understand that the Commissions work for this House, but how can we begin to work for the examination of the budget documents at 6:19 p.m. and in the morning we are in the Chamber at 9:30 a.m.? This is inconceivable for me, and it is something that happens more and more, namely that it gives us very little time to work in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u263	Senator Bulgarelli, perhaps you start from the assumption that the evening begins at 6:19 p.m. I read that the next day starts at 9.30 a.m., so we have to give the offices time to prepare the file. We are here to try to collect proposals for changes to the calendar. I understand your comment, but...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u264	If you reply by talking about the House, you did not understand, because I was talking about the work in the Commission. If we start working in the Commission at 6 p.m., how can we be prepared to discuss the draft law the morning after 9.30 a.m. in the Chamber? We are talking about the budget documents. I take this opportunity to say that this is happening more and more often. Perhaps it would be better to do this with a slightly different ratio when we adopt the timetable for this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u265	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u266	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u267	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we see that once again it has not been considered an emergency and an urgency that the current events bring to the attention. There are draft laws, signed by almost all the Groups, which concern banking separation, "stuck" in the Commission; we call for them to be scheduled, with care and warning that this will take place during the first week of work. It is also very curious that the same motion of distrust against Mr Boschi is not being called for. We, the President, do so and ask that it be placed on the agenda for the first sitting of next year. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, Senator Candiani, as regards the other "stabbed" bills, can you tell us at least one in order to make concrete your proposal of variation? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). They are the bill for banking separation, signed by Comaroli, Candiani and other senators of the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group, as well as the other bills presented by other groups.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u268	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u269	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u270	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we propose that, after the delegation on procurement, instead of dealing with the two draft laws, in particular those concerning the renewal of the mandates of the CONI and the inclusion of foreign minors in sports clubs, the two draft laws that we included in the week in which we are going to deal with civil unions, that is to say, the day of remembrance of the victims of immigration and the day of remembrance of the victims of the mob, can be anticipated, because they can easily be taken up again; it does not seem to me that the sporting measures - let us call them that - are very urgent. In addition, Mr President, last time I asked you (and also today in the Commission) to be able to schedule motions on the State Railways. It is in progress, as we all know a privatisation process. Among other things, a motion had been adopted in the House of Deputies and we do not understand how it can be respected. I believe that this House must have every opportunity to have a very serious debate on a passage that certainly also produces a very complex corporate transformation and with very serious consequences for millions and millions of users. In fact, it seems to me that there are already many difficulties with regard to the transport of commuters in particular and our impression is that - alas - they will be aggravated by the privatisation process. This is the proposal that I am putting forward, which will enable us to work calmly during the week in which the House will examine the measure on civil unions. Finally, I would like to make another proposal to supplement the timetable. Over the last few days we have had a lot of discussions on the decree-law for the rescue of banks and on the motion of distrust which - I think - will be debated tomorrow in the House of Deputies. A subject has been removed for a long time and this is particularly serious in this parliamentary term... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u271	Colleagues, please, I invite you to lower your voice because I cannot listen to Senator De Petris.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u272	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). The theme, which had been pompously announced, concerns the conflict of interest. I think it is no longer acceptable to have no regulation on this matter, risking each of us having to hire detectives to know if a minister is or is not there, if he has prepared certain acts, if he has signed them and if he was present at the time of their adoption. The fundamental question that must be addressed once and for all in this country is that of conflict of interest. I therefore propose that we begin to deal with it at the end of the week when we are considering the measure on civil unions, in order also to give the Commission time to deepen it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u273	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u274	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u275	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, I propose to supplement the timetable proposed by Senator Martelli, adding the examination of the bill presented by me and other senators in the summer of 2013 and assigned on 23 October 2013, which calls for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry into Desio's Banco. I would also like to point out that everyone today hastens to submit draft laws for the establishment of Committees of Inquiry and that, if a Commission on the first cases had been properly set up, all the damage that we see before us would perhaps have been avoided. I remember that, later, Desio's Banco acquired the Banca Popolo di Spoleto, which was subject to commissioning and which is known to the chronicles for the direct involvement of Visco. I merely say that if the right things were done in time, perhaps the citizens would gain a greater advantage.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u276	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u277	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u278	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I will make three comments with regard to the timetable that has been announced, but if we have not made any exceptions to the timetable for the next few days, we will come forward with proposals for amendments in January. I come back to what was said at the Conference of the Leaders, where, Mr President, I think I have received your agreement, from the point of view of your assessment, that the stability bill issued by the Budget Committee of the House of Members (which I imagine will be confirmed by this House even if this has not yet happened) leads to significant differences in budgetary balances: 3 billion more on net debt to be financed and 0.2% more on the margin of indebtedness than on the deficit-to-GDP ratio. This, in accordance with our accounting law, entails the imperative and not the other way round, despite the efforts that the Government can make, to receive in good time, before the debate begins in this House, a note to update the Economic and Financial Document. This is our accounting law and no climbing on the mirrors that the government can do allows this not to happen, not only because of the margin of debt, where there is a 0.2 percent window linked to the so-called migrant clause, that if it is not approved in Europe would bring the deficit to 2.6% of GDP, but mainly in terms of net debt to be financed, which goes from 32 to 35.4 billion. This happens due to 345 changes, that is new paragraphs inserted in the Chamber, almost twice as much as the text hesitated by the Senate. This would require a separate reasoning on the timing, but these are times that we know are pre-natal and difficult to change, but that says a lot about the government's respect for Parliament and this branch, in particular. We in one day will be called to hesitate as many as 345 changes made to the House in relation to the text of the Senate. Even more, I repeat, in essence these 345 amendments, as well as consisting of more than 10 billion new items of revenue and expenditure, which are not an insignificant figure, lead to an increase of 3 billion of net debt to be financed. Mr President, this involves the fact that we cannot, even if we want to respect the deadlines set at the Conference of the Leaders, begin the examination of the law if we do not first approve a Note of variation of the Document of Economics and Finance and it is not just a formal fact of compliance with the law of accounting, which would already suffice to be able to say that this must be done. This is true of next week's schedule. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I'm sorry to interrupt, but I can't put it in as a proposal for a change of calendar because it's a reminder to the government to get an update note. So, I mean from this point of view. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). If you think so, I shall present a proposal for a change with the inclusion of the approval of a Note of variation. I take it for granted, but if you think it should be officially requested, I ask you that, respecting the times agreed by everyone, the examination of the Stability Act be preceded by the approval of a DEF Note of variation, as the Accounting Act provides. As for the week from 12 to 15 January, our second request is that the bill No. 361 be not scheduled and related to the mandates CONI and sports federations and that in its place the motion of Senator Amidei on the inspection union be scheduled. Regarding the week from the 26 to the 29 January, we ask that the bill on civil unions is not calendarized and that it is replaced by the bill n. 120, bearing the reform of the harbour system, that it has already obtained in date 11 september 2013 - we speak of two years and two months ago, President - the procedure abbreviated ex article 81, paragraph 3, of our Regulation, that it previews the insertion in the calendar immediately successive to that in course. There is also a similar bill by Senator Filippi which has had the same assessment, which I think the Presidency can associate with draft law No 120, if the House decides on the replacement that we have formulated as the third proposal for variation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u279	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u280	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u281	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, I have a proposal to include the treatment of a measure in the last week provided for in the January calendar. I should like to explain briefly the point of this proposal for inclusion. The "Report" programme, aired on RAI 3, dealt last Sunday with the events concerning ENI's international corruption. Mr President, my group tabled a number of months ago, at my first signature, the request for a single-camera parliamentary inquiry commission, concerning the events of ENI's international corruption and its subsidiaries, in particular SAIPEM. The conduct of the program and what took place on the evening of last Sunday and throughout the course of the night and the next day, that is to say the manifestation of a very innovative form of communication in which a social network, in particular Twitter, has come to rise to the same level as a television program such as "Report" thanks to the massive intervention of the company ENI, with comments on the social network itself that called into question any failures of the public service highlighted in the program "Report" leads me to support, as I did during one of the last sessions of the Industry Commission here in the Senate, the request to address urgently the proposal, already calendarized in the Commission, of the establishment of a Commission of inquiry on these events. This is to highlight the capacity of the Senate to address this issue at least as much as a television program, because it seems to me that it really cannot be acceptable that, for some cross-referenced, parallel or perhaps vertical vetoes, the Senate classrooms should not deal with the subject. As I found the PD parent to be available in 10a President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: In this way, perhaps, already at the resumption of the work, the two Joint Commissions, industry and justice, could quickly conclude the work and bring to the Chamber a topic that, of course, is the subject of both the work of the Milan Public Prosecutor and also of the English justice and will perhaps soon be the subject of a communication manual for how the interweaving between a social network and the program "Report" has developed and of which I do not understand why the Senate of the Republic should not take care of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u282	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u283	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u284	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, on behalf of the 5 Star Movement Group, I call for the motion of individual distrust tabled by our Group against Mr Boschi to be scheduled tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u285	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u286	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u287	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I have seen that the draft law on civil unions has been included in the timetable. It has been confirmed and the time for tabling amendments has also been given. As you will be aware, last week hundreds of intellectuals, actors and even political figures signed the appeal "If not now when", containing an appeal against the practice of the uterus for rent, which is a substantial part, through the special adoptions, of this bill. Today the European Parliament, with 70% of the votes, condemned the practice of gestation of support, saying that it is an unacceptable commodification of women, and committed the European Parliament and the institutions to combat this aberrant practice. We are faced with these new developments and with the fact that the draft law coming to the House was debated for zero minutes by the Commission, because, as you know, we are dealing with a new draft law on which the members of the Commission had entered to speak after the rapporteur's report, but which the President then decided should go to the Chamber without any of the members of the Senate's Justice Commission having been able to take the floor on it, although they had already signed up. The specific issue, that of special adoptions, namely Article 5, has never been discussed, because we were still examining Article 1. Therefore, the subject which the whole of Europe is talking about, which is being discussed with a mobilization, not of a million people in St John's Square, but of political sectors of a completely different political-ideological matrix, which today had the attention of the European Parliament, would come to this House by violating the Italian Constitution, which states that the measures must be instructed in the Commission, as well as the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which also lays down terms. It is true that the Rules of Procedure state that the terms of the debate can be reduced before the House is examined, but in this case they have not been reduced, but reset; that is to say, the Commission has not been able to discuss this new bill for a second time. It therefore seems to me that, in the face of such an important subject, in the face of such a massive mobilization, compared with 70% or 80% of the Italian people (according to all the polls) who are opposed to this practice, come to this House without rapporteur and without allowing... [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u288	Senator Giovanardi, I ask you for your proposal to change the calendar. We don't need an intervention on merit.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u289	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Excuse me, Mr President, so far ten points have been made on the various subjects... [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u290	In fact, I made her talk. I now call on you to conclude with the request to amend the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u291	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). This is the most important, because here there is a risk of approving a measure that can be censored for violation of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. Having said that, of course, for all the reasons I have said before, I would ask, as Mr D'Ali has also done, that the debate on the draft law on civil unions be removed from the timetable and then that, with the necessary regulatory procedures, it be referred back to the Commission for consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u292	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u293	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u294	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I will be very quick. Given that in the last week of January we have the draft law on civil unions on schedule, I would propose that a draft law be included for the previous week, the examination of which would be very quick because we vote very quickly, but which is also crucial for civil unions. I am referring to the Senate Act 1939 (but there are others on the subject), at the first signature of Senator Morra, on the establishment of the independent National Commission for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, in the examination of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This Commission would solve all the vulnus on anti-discrimination and anti-homophobic policies, which unfortunately are not being pursued, since the UNAR is not currently working and because of the MIUR's fugitiveness. I therefore believe that, even in agreement with some Members of the Democratic Party, it is a preparatory and just bill to be voted on shortly before the draft law on civil unions. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u295	I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u296	[[Senator Montevecchi points out that she wants to intervene.]] BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I do not want to waste this House's time completing an indispensable task, but I support Senator D'Alì's proposal. I believe that this proposal is very responsible and in the interests of everyone, including the Government which, in the process of completing the reading and voting on the stability bill, must be able to comply with the rules that we so strongly wanted on the new accounting law and therefore provide for a Note of variation to the DEF before the final dismissal of a law of stability which, at the time of reading in the House, has undoubtedly modified even the general framework of indebtedness. Of course, if we did so in the House together with the Senate, as the law provides, the problem would already be solved, there is therefore nothing instrumental in all this, but only the concern to respect the law on the accounting of the State, at a stage such as this when I believe that the attention of citizens on the problem of debt is not high, but very high. I now come to the question that I have already mentioned at the Conference of Leaders on the Commission of Inquiry into the matter of the rescue of the four banks and more generally on the credit system and its supervision. I would like to remind this House that both the Government and the opposition point out this as the director to be followed, leaving the judiciary with all its competences and its natural path in the administration of justice. If then there really is the will to set up this Commission of Inquiry, from the political and parliamentary point of view it is necessary to do so now, so my proposal to amend the timetable, by including its institution in the week from 12 to 19 January, makes sense. If you just want to waste time, then you don't have to schedule it, but you just have to say it's done and then don't do it. On the other hand, I believe it is in the interests of the Italian citizens and therefore of this Parliament to have a moment of deepening, knowledge and truth about what has happened and how to do so that it never happens again. That is why I am calling on the House to deal with the matter of the Commission of Inquiry on the events that have taken place as quickly as possible. I repeat, if it is done in the week from 12 to 19 January, perhaps we can quickly offer a moment of deepening to all the citizens concerned by this affair, avoid that contagious effect of distrust that is always around the corner and that has an intangible and immeasurable value and remedy the chiaroscuro of this affair that also invests the Government, especially in the management in Brussels and in the places where it has tried to share the solution of the Italian Resolution Fund, but it has not succeeded. This is the real issue to be addressed, Mr President, so thank you if you will take this proposal into account. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Montevecchi, would you like to intervene? Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I give up speaking. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u297	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u298	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u299	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I come back to what Mr Martelli and Mr Bonfrisco have said and I will be very quick. I would like to remind you that the President-in-Office of the Council, who is also Secretary of the Democratic Party, said that a parliamentary committee of inquiry would be right. Parliament is serious and I address you and President Boldrini. I think that if a committee of inquiry is to be set up, it must be bicameral and I believe that next week we must tell the country if Parliament is to deal with it, and in this case we must deal with it in the first week of January. Or it is said that the Presidents of the House and the Senate, for certain reasons, have decided that the Committee of Inquiry is not being done; and that is fine: I would be sorry, but it has a logic. To leave this question hanging, however, with the Italian citizen who no longer knows whether the Italian banking system is reliable or not, seems to me to be absolutely extravagant people. [[Applause from Senators Bonfrisco and Caliendo.]] Mr President, I would like to address you, who, together with President Boldrini, showed that you were finally able to complete the appointment of constitutional judges last night: have the sensitivity not to make Parliament look bad. [[Applause from Senators Caliendo and Molinari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u300	Senator Carraro, a bill was presented, I believe, today. As soon as assigned, it will be evaluated.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u301	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u302	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u303	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, we should go as a priority and that of Italy is work. We have been repeating for two years, together with all the trade associations, Confindustria, trade unions, banks, universities and research centres, that hundreds of thousands of new jobs could be created by stabilising ecobonus. So, if the priority you care about is job creation, I would like to call for a timetable on 12 January, not only for the motion tabled by the 5 Star Movement and signed across Parliament, but also for a very similar motion tabled by the Democratic Party itself. There is, in fact, a very broad convergence of views in order to stabilize this manoeuvre, whose historical data of recent years allow us to say that it creates jobs and benefits both the ordinary citizen, as well as the enterprises, and the State, which derive from the emergence of undeclared work much more tax revenue than the deduction it grants. If you really care about the national priority of job creation, please schedule motion 421 on ecobonus. [[Applause from Senator Castaldi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u304	Colleagues, various requests have been made, but they can be traced back to the types of proposals for integrating the calendar of the Assembly's work. A very widespread request was to include draft legislation to set up new parliamentary committees of inquiry. Several committees of inquiry were requested, from the one on banks, the one on public procurement, the one on the protection of human rights. I shall therefore put to the vote the proposal to include in the calendar of proceedings of the Assembly the examination of draft laws establishing parliamentary committees of inquiry. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to include the examination of other draft laws in the calendar of proceedings of the Assembly. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, is this a general vote? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Several draft laws have been proposed; if the proposal is approved, then we proceed to the vote on the individual draft laws to be included in the timetable. That's what he's always been like. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to include in the timetable of the proceedings of this House the examination of motions of mistrust to individual ministers. Verification of GAETTI quorum (M5S). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the agenda of the president's session. I put to the vote the proposal to include in the calendar of the proceedings of the Assembly the examination of motions of mistrust to individual ministers. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to include in the calendar of the work of the Assembly the examination of an Update Note to the DEF, with invitation to the Government to present it. It's not approved. I shall put to the vote the proposal to include motions for resolutions in the agenda. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to implement the measure on civil unions. It's not approved. I shall put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly with a view to providing for a different order of examination of the subjects referred to therein. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final. [[Applause from Senator Russo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u305	We shall now proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u306	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u307	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u308	ZIZA (CoR). This is the Government of the Great Reforms. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u309	Colleagues, please stop the buzz. If we don't let Senator Zizza talk and we interrupt him, we'll waste more time.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u310	ZIZA (CoR). After the reform of the Provinces, Mr President, it is yesterday afternoon's news that some workers in Brindisi have climbed to the roof of the Palace of the Province to protest at the lack of money for salaries. Not to mention the Senate reform that, if the referendum confirms it, will become the post-work of mayors and regional councillors. Not to mention, then, the unblocking Italy, in which the Government backs - rightly - on a measure for drills. Finally, we come to the small reform of the RAI. We are not interested in getting involved in the management of the RAI reform, but rather in getting technically specific. We are not interested in the number of advisers, but in the way they are chosen, because of their professional qualities. We are not specifically concerned with political management, but with plural management, which, unfortunately, with this reform is not guaranteed. We were interested in a competitive RAI on the market and a real abolition of the fee. According to the data published these days, all the oppositions put together have a space of about 35 percent of the total, within the RAI TV platform. This is a 35% percentage, compared with an electoral consensus of about 65 to 70% of voters. As you can see, there is absolutely no plurality in the current management of RAI. That of the canon we could then define as a real tax of possession, like the stamp of the car, that unlike the stamp is inserted directly in the energy bill of the Italian citizens. Years ago a very nice slogan of the RAI, recited: "The RAI is you." It was an RAI that had to develop culture and technology, and that had to be plural, but unfortunately this time a great opportunity has been missed. During the visit of the RAI employees to Pope Francis I like to recall a phrase that the Pope himself said, recalling that RAI was a witness to the processes of change of Italian society in its rapid transformations and contributed in a special way to the process of linguistic-cultural unification of Italy. Here, the public service should feel the burden of responsibility for today and tomorrow. This should be the mission of the RAI, but of that ethical mission, in this reform there is not even the shadow. Precisely in this direction, we believe that the introduction of a single public information channel for the dissemination of broadcasts both at national and regional level, through the presence in each region of its own proper editorials and structures, would serve to further improve the quality of the service. 18.20 p.m. (ZIZZA followed). This is what initially had to be the role of RAI 3, an important channel that had to know how to relate with the territory, highlighting its typicality and excellence, its identity and economic and social activities, especially by strengthening the Made in Italy and transforming it into economic contributions and advertising sponsors. In short, a channel that took over the primordial idea of that television network, before politics and governments simply made it another social shock absorber. We would have wanted to help reform the RAI, abolish it and improve the information service. We would have liked to be involved in a reform that would make the public service responsible, ensuring pluralism and transparency. But, in the face of your abdicating in front of the usual presumption of those who announced in great depth to sweep away the parties from the RAI, making it simply not a state company, but the government company, the Group of Conservatives and Reformists will not be able to participate to approve yet another act confused and messy and for this I declare our vote against. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u311	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u312	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u313	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today in this Parliament one of the biggest scumbags that the Renzi Government will hand over to the history of the country is being carried out: the birth of "TeleRenzi." Specifically, the new organization of television and public service in our country will be this: RAI 1 "TeleRenzi", RAI 2 "Leopolda channel", RAI 3 "Bimbo minchia." But let's reconstruct the facts a bit: Renzi Matteo, as always, had lit the fireworks, saying that one of the fundamental reforms that he would carry out and to which he cared most was precisely the reform of the RAI. He said, with the usual boredom typical of the scumbag... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] SUSTA (PD). That's enough! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crosio, the terms please. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). I said "those big pricks." PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, you use more... CROSIO (LN-Aut). Okay. I said that Renzi had said that he would remove politics and the parties from RAI and that absolutely we would no longer consider that law that defined an obnoxious, that is the so-called Gasparri law. He said that we would never consider the Gasparri law again, and we would do a reform for free television, for pluralistic communication and for an independent RAI. In fact, he took politics and parties away from RAI, to get in there with him and his gang of politicians. That can be said. The design of Renzi and his band, dear colleagues of the PD, is clear, clear and now also explicit: to bring the RAI under the aegis and control of Palazzo Chigi, inter alia transforming the general manager into CEO, with immense powers. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, as well as the Leopolda renziana, the censored face towards the free press has been exhibited - we have seen something that cries out revenge to heaven - let alone Renzi, with his nice scoundrels, could resist assaulting public television. "Canaglie" can be said. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We don't race what we can say or can't say, Senator Crosio, please. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). So I'm gonna get you out of the way, Mr. President. I said "sympathetic scoundrels." He's in. The passage to the House, dear President, gives us a measure even worse than the one that was fired by the Senate. The most amazing thing is that these are just the hours of yet another scandal for bribes for contracts that Mom RAI promptly obscured, being the direct interested. I still want to remember the headlines on Tuesday, clear and, in this case, explicit: TV procurement agents: three arrests for corruption. Black sources for TV procurement; "Bustarelle TV: in prison the manager Biancifiori". Good. Despite all this, what do we find in the "TeleRenzi" measure? What news do we find? A derogation on contracts studied in art for RAI, and not only on contracts, with regard to the purchase, development, production and marketing of television programmes and whatever else, but even - heard, heard - the contracts concluded by RAI and the wholly-participated companies having as their object works, services, supplies and whatever else are in fact excluded from the application of the rules of the Code for public contracts. Let us understand: in the aftermath of the umpteenth scandal about contracts and bribes that concern, in this case, the television public service what do you do, excuse me, Renzi what does it require you to do? Remove RAI on procurement procedures: you are indecent. This is the carnage of public television, this is the ecatomb of pluralism and information, it is the murder of the idea of an independent RAI, everything that generated this measure. I would like it to remain in the Minutes that on this issue - which, in fact, should be renamed: RAI license to scratch or better RAI shoplift free - the opinion of the 14a The Commission was, yes, not obstructive but with a clear condition. In recalling Article 27 of the Procurement Code (principles of affordability, effectiveness, impartiality, equal treatment, transparency and proportionality), the obligation to invite at least five competitors is recalled. Will you? I don't think so. But we'll see. One thing is certain: if it does not happen, you are truly without shame. We believe we are faced with the worst conservatism that with your shady design will have its climax. This legislative abortion will come to its goal when the new CEO with exaggerated powers, including that of a hit man, will clean the place of those who are not aligned with the Renzi-pensiero, in full symbiosis with the Leopolda renziana, that is to say to silence, remove and falsify those who are not in line with the ideas of the head. That is the idea of the Prime Minister's pluralism. But there's more. In a Europe in which there are such democratic countries these days as to promote a referendum on the abolition of the canon, what do you do? Keep calling it a canon and put it in the bill. In fact, it's a tax. At least have the shame to call it a tax. Until proven otherwise, a subscription remains optional. But the Italians, Dr. Renzi, are less idiots than you thought. We have a clear feeling that they are realizing that you and your band of villains and how and how unhealthy you are. The unclean story of these days about the scandal of the banks, a scandal in which you are involved up to your neck, is the plastic representation of how you and your cheerful company, Dr. Renzi, manage the country. When I begin to conclude my speech, Mr President, I cannot fail to recall what happened yesterday in this House. I can't help but remember your unusual, Dr. Renzi, but evident nervousness manifested just yesterday in front of our signs, in my opinion far too chaste. His broken reaction only confirms that the nerve is discovered and his difficulty in dealing with a matter that will eventually involve her personally is evident. I close, Mr President, by referring to the words that Dr Renzi wanted to address yesterday to our Group, saying that the ad personam law season is over. If that is the case, we are happy and we hope that together we can end that of the ad personam banks. One thing we are aware of, President: thanks to you, Dr. Renzi, the ad personam television season has begun. Congratulations. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u314	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u315	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u316	D'ANNA (AL-A). Mr President, we are radically opposed to this reform, not because it can be changed better or worse than the Gasparri Act, but because we believe that some 100 RAI reforms have been announced and at least four, five have been carried out (from Ettore Bernabei to today). And each of these, implemented pedissequamente, gave rise to the systematic occupation of RAI by the parties that govern. This is the distinguishing feature of statism: whoever governs the State governs everything that the State possesses under a monopoly or a dominant regime. So, this juxtaposition that politics has to get out of RAI, as well as being a great falsehood, is also a great injustice. If RAI cashes 2,750 million... AIROLA (M5S). But don't cash them! D'ANNA (AL-A). ...and receives 1,780 from the tax, i.e. from the radio-television fee, is a state-owned company, and, until proven otherwise, Parliament acts as the shareholders' meeting, having the Treasury competed for three quarters to finance the needs. Therefore, stop with this story of calling for chastity, goodness, this kind of areopagus in which you should take refuge: if you want politics to take away the hands of RAI you have to privatise it; you have to open to the market of competition, to forfeit money and ask - obviously with the appropriate antitrust rules, that do not allow Berlusconi, Cairo, Murdoch, or those already present on the market of broadcast advertising, to be able to participate - to the one who wins this contest to international public evidence, to leave in the availability of the State a single channel for cultural and informative purposes, where culture, comparison, literacy can be carried out. Master Manzi, fifty years ago, alphabetized those who could not read and write. I believe that on television we can alphabetize those who are not healthy to use the instruments that modern electronics makes available to us. And let's go back to the season of comedies, novels, great films, great documentaries. Let's go back to a television away from the bullshit of the share, away from junk television and advertising chickens, which are the elements that distinguish commercial television. If that's not the case, you're running empty; you're asking the state to turn into something ontologically it can't be. So, I'm sorry, you can discuss advertising, transparency in the concession contract. Today we do nothing but give to a company called RAI SpA the absolute management of channels and television structures, of a company that has failed, that has 12,000 employees, 2,000 journalists (500 of which make executives), and that commission outside 60 percent of the production, having another 10,000 collaborators. There is no private entrepreneur in the world, not even Rupert Murdoch, who can support a wheelchair of this size. As I said this morning, it's like wanting to know how many angels dance on the head of a pin: it's a useless pleonastic dissertation. As long as RAI is financed by Italian citizens and is in the hands of the State, it will be an instrument of propaganda, conditioning and exercise of power. Attention, it is no coincidence that Vespa is proposed as mayor of Rome or Sallusti as mayor of Milan. It is no coincidence that the Badaloni, Marrazzo, Santoro and Gruber have been performed in the past. There are two categories that make career for seniority and notoriety: magistrates and journalists. LO MORO (PD). And we missed him! D'ANNA (AL-A). Of course, dear colleague Lo Moro, for seniority and notoriety. If you arrest a politician who has become known and is elected to the Supreme Council of the judiciary. If you don't issue sentences, leave people in jail and deal with pseudo-reates like the external contest, eventually always appeal court presidents become. We view the state differently and make these criticisms not as being against these categories, but as denouncing the abuses and distortions of the hypocrites and those who know and keep them. All unrighteousness offends you when it does not bring any benefit to you. The RAI has served those who came before Renzi, serves Renzi and will serve those who will come after Renzi because scaffolding is the structure of management of a service that, being state, is monopoly of politics. Be patient, but who are you gonna get her to handle? What transparency will a failing company that collects 680 million euros of advertising and receives an obolo of 1,780 million euros in Bonis? Who is this scientist? How many Nobel laureates for the economy should you name on its board of directors? This morning President Gasparri measured the rate of democracy by observing that the members of the board of directors appointed by Parliament before were seven out of nine, while today there are four out of seven. This is ridiculous, it is absolutely ridiculous. This is a company decoted and I'll tell you on the face. Those who pretend not to understand these things, if they were not collided with yesterday's political policy, are today and, if they are not today, will be tomorrow, dear Senator Crosio. Dear friends, today we sit on the wrong side, because you have occupied all places on the side of reason. You're all statists who want to change the code, comma and article. We are radically against an RAI managed by politics and the Leviathan State that snaps 1,750 million from the pockets of citizens, In fact, the 2,200 journalists and the 500 RAI leaders, those gentlemen who then punctually criticize the highest systems, enjoy privileges deriving from the state that must be firmly denied. We will therefore vote against the measure because we are opposed to the State RAI. [[Applause from the AL-A Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u317	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u318	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u319	MINEO (Mixed). Mr President, Senators, we will vote against the reform of the RAI first of all because it is not a reform; it is simply a reorganization of the power structures in RAI and the relationship between RAI and the political system. Instead, the RAI, the company for which I worked, which gave me so much and to which I gave what little I knew and could give, would urgently need a real reform because, dear senators, for twenty-five years, RAI is part of a duopolistic system with a large private company. This fact - twenty-five years is a quarter of a century - has profoundly changed it. The RAI had a declining or, however, stagnant resource, which was that of the canon, and a decisive resource, which was the advertising revenue, although with all the limits of advertising imposed on the RAI, having the canon, and not imposed on the private competitor. This means that RAI has built itself a private mind in this quarter of a century. To survive, he began to think like a commercial television. He made contracts exactly on the private competitor's contract scheme. Some of you have made yourself pretty complaining that a well-known television conductor has not revealed his wages. He didn't do it because, in imitation of the contract that the private competitor does, there's the penalty of dismissal if he says something about the salary he gets and the income he makes. The same applies to the system of prosecutors with footballers, without which the stars are not found. Having become a public television with an absolutely commercial television head has also outraged many viewers and this was something that had to be changed by putting hand to the system and trying to answer the question: is there a need for a public protagonist in the audiovisual world and, if yes, this public protagonist what role should he play? What do you have to do? Who do you have to answer? All this in the reform of the RAI is not there at all. I've talked about declining resources, canon resources, and decisive resources, advertising resources. But the political system asks RAI more and more. You may not know this, but the things that RAI is obliged to do are many, from financing a part of the Italian national audiovisual industry - otherwise no one would do it because private individuals finance only one work, but, when you have an industrial structure such as the audiovisual one, if you finance one work per year, the structure dies and you need someone who intelligently finances it - to maintain a structure of regional offices that costs a great deal. Dear senators and MPs, who are not here, but what a hug speaking at this moment, how many of you would be unleashed if they did not find, when they returned to their territory, as they say here, a camera always ready to interview them? Well, then, put your hand on your heart. That structure costs in an incredible way. I can assure you that there is no manager in Italy who thinks it is possible to bring in equal accounts of a company that must carry that structure in regional offices and in regional news. I don't tell you to abolish them or re-launch them or build a public or private structure, but put the problem on your hands if you want to reform the RAI. The problem is no place at all. So why did the government propose a reform? What is the reform we are about to vote on at second reading? It's soon said. This reform confirms what was already there: an RAI that must take into account, in a rather militarized way, the opinions, moods and desires of the majority government. This was already there. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a novelty of the reform that we are voting on. If anything, in the reform that we are voting on, there is a reorganization of this majority because majority can also be a plural term. The majority that takes possession of RAI after the reform is a majority that leads back to the government and, in essence, only to the Premier. I don't want to make a vague speech. Two members of the board of directors are elected to the House and two to the Senate. What do you mean if things go well and democratic play works? That the majority take one in the House and one in the Senate and then majority with the two in the Government. Well, but when only one is elected to the House, to understand us, it is evident that this will be an expression of the majority of the majority. It will be due to that group of people who support the Prime Minister or President of the Council at that time, as you want to call him. Then there are the directional powers of the Director-General and the extraordinary powers of the Director-General. So it confirms the setup of RAI that I know well. A RAI that stands on the side of the majority and that, every time the majority changes, introduces the spoil system, but it is brought back, in a much more organic and Bolshevik way, to the command of only one. On the spoil system, I'm just making a point. A cultural operator, a journalist who wants to do this job, an author of programs, needs time to cultivate new ideas and be up to the competition in a perspective that is not to take the market share that exists at the moment, but to meet favors and interests that move in a longer wave. When the spoil system is introduced, and these laws introduce the spoil system, this person knows very well that he has no time to build anything like this and that he will have to connect with the wishes of the majority of government. That's the point. I wouldn't want colleagues from the League to be offended, but at some point in RAI there was also the fiction about Alberto da Giussano. We have seen more priests and saints than I can and other things can happen on the other side, because no one is free from this kind of crime. But the spoil system system is absolutely harmful to RAI. I told you about the need for reform and reform that is not there. Think, for example, of the absolute lack of relationship between our debate on the main Italian cultural company and the political debate that is overwhelming the Italians at this moment. We are talking, as never before, about the Middle East and Libya as our destiny. The President of the Council has spent only a few words on the very important choice of sending 450 Italian soldiers to Mosul in Iraq. A very important, perhaps indispensable, risky choice. We are talking about Libya badly, but what I understand is that we are preparing to do an operation on the ground, on the land of Libya. What does RAI have to do with it? This has something to do with it, ladies and gentlemen. I've been inside the facility for the last few years, playing a leading role. And several times I asked all my directors-general how it was possible that a news report at RAI didn't have a newspaper in English and didn't have a newspaper in Arabic. I also proposed the newspaper in English and the newspaper in Arabic (only one, because I could do this) for free, because I had inside the company the professionalism that they could do it. We didn't. But do you realize that we have a public service that does not even pose the problem of making a newspaper in Arabic? But do you know that when you talk about ISIS or the Wahabites, if you talk about it, or about Salafists in the world, the fundamental problem is that all the information that Arab intelligence receives comes from And the only network that gets there is the BBC, which does programs in Arabic, and nothing else. And we who should embark on an affair in Libya don't even pose the problem. This is the kind of debate that would have been indispensable and that was not there. I shall conclude by saying that there is another problem, perhaps bigger than all. The audiovisual system, including the private one, is in great transformation and can take advantage, even for economic reasons, only of the immediate opportunities. Not to pose the problem of where this system goes is criminal. We reporters no longer know when we give the news if this news is true. Because the news must be given in a few seconds, because it has already been maneuvered by 100 people and, therefore, it gets there in this way. For example, did al-Bagdadi go to Libya or not? The news came from Iranian and Hezbollah sources, so I might not believe it. But the U.S. newspapers took it back. Did they have the tip or not? We are a country that doesn't pose this kind of problem in its system and giggles to rationalize the power that was there: first the majority, now the government, then the Premier. But in the end, we lose ground and ground in the world. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u320	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u321	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u322	MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would ask for permission to hand over the text of my speech to the documents, so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u323	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u324	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u325	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u326	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, how important is RAI? How important is information? It's very important. It is so important for this Parliament that we must quickly approve the draft law under consideration and quickly give these famous management superpowers to the new RAI CEO, who quickly (very quickly) will have to appoint all the network directors, the TG directors, the editors, the editors, the editors and also the journalists, all those necessary to Matteo to buffer the loss of consent, hide conflicts of interest, silence on the investigations against his party, on his government and, as is customary, disinforming the nation. In RAI they didn't understand who won. It sounds like a phrase from Berlusconi years ago, at the time of the Bulgarian edict, at the time of the Petruccioli, the Saccà, or worse than the Mauro Masi; instead, it was said by MP Renziano Anzaldi. Think about it. Times change, the duvets evolve and you have moved from Berlusconi to Renzi through a beautiful Government Letta PD-Berlusconi, just to not forget. If these things had happened about ten years ago the world would have come down; today silence is deafening, I would call it surreal. I am referring to silence on the outside and inside the RAI. Yet it is extremely real, as is the subjection of much of the printed paper, of the great signatures, of the committed intellectuals who made great protests ten years ago. Today satire is gagged, disappeared from RAI palimpsests. Giannini's on the lookout. You think, but he wasn't up in the center-left? Vianello's on the pole too. They are spreading the current televisions, or rather prepare an evolved form of batching, 2.0, massive, invasive, surgical and especially definitive for a RAI in the image and resemblance of this Premier. "We will enter RAI 3 with the flamethrower": think a little, would have confided to a journalist an anonymous MP PD. Other than the screams of Cricket, of these there is to be afraid and there is little to joke about. It's unheard of what's going on. It is yet another act of legislative narcissism of a Premier obsessed with the desire for total control, whose ego gives birth to such a reform as to him: authoritarian, crude, disorganic. The public information service will be in the hands of the Government, or rather in the hands of Matteo Renzi who appoints a super-cEO, who in turn appoints all top executives, network directors, journalists. This is in contempt of any basic democratic rule of public service independence, which was then the basis of our proposal; in contempt for the negative judgments of all the audits in the Commission; in contempt for trade unions, the rejection of Europe and the European Broadcasting Union (EBU), the body that brings together all the European public services with over a billion spectators, you think. They've had a public service, we haven't, for over 20 years. This is how it will continue to be involved in a self-destructive spiral. In the draft law under consideration, which has also been made worse in the House (we must admit it), there is a very significant aspect. We have tried to put a patch on an agenda, but it is symptomatic of this choice that our work with the rapporteur and undersecretary Giacomelli did not emerge. I am referring to the derogation on procurement, which was also voted against by the 14th Commission. It is a cunning typical Italian, to continue to magnate with RAI contracts, favoring friends and friends of friends; in short, it is one of the usual things and is even bolder now that to the honors of the chronicle there is a case of megacorruption in RAI for bribes, bribes, 50 million black funds. A case that has overwhelmed many RAI employees and many managers not only RAI. When we asked Gubitosi to account for this in the RAI Supervisory Committee - and colleagues can testify - he replied with dreamy air that everything was going well. This state-of-the-art company, a great cultural industry that everyone envied us (they invented a lot of technologies), was allowed to die slowly: a slow degradation, which transformed it into a swamp, an archipelago of clientele interests founded on the pressured subdiction: employees and journalists in constant blackmail between precarious and mobbing, great professionalism and excellence buried to promote the career of mediocre and lick. It is a company where you waste and steal between externalizations, contracts, bribes and supersalaries for hundreds of few elected, while you exploit technicians, workers, operators, authors with downward contracts, and maybe you ask also a director programmer, a 10% discount in VAT, since it is already underpaid otherwise does not make the season of the new program. It is a company where you spend 300 million euros in fiction, always giving them to the same producers children of someone: maybe the son of Mieli or Bernabei, but all friends of the director of RAI Fiction, Tinny Andreatta, also daughter of someone, Andreatta. This is the RAI you have on your hands. And instead of going in the opposite direction, instilling the right spirit, the strength necessary for the arduous enterprise to restructure and re-launch, you crushed it once again in the dust. Attention, I'm not talking about the next CEO Dal l'Orto, because he hasn't done anything yet. Let us see how much and how it will handle the monstrous political pressure that will arise after the adoption of the law. He may be very good, fair and independent, but the President-in-Office put him there, and that is unacceptable for democracy worthy of that name. Do you understand that or not? Tell me if you wouldn't have been outraged if Berlusconi had done it (or when he really did). I want to see what you are doing and how brave you are to deny today, because this is a fundamental point. We cannot come here now to say that everything is normal, that we will have control of Parliament. If you're referring to the board of directors appointed by the majority in government, then you're making fun of us. But we're not on "Skills" apart from "Skills." After all, friends of friends and principles are not betrayed: no law on conflict of interest, nothing in twenty-five years. From the President of the Council who ruled with three televisions (we were the joke of the whole world) to Matteo Renzi, today nothing has changed. Each one of you always has his own beautiful conflicts of interest every day, and every now and then we see one coming out. Our substantive proposals have remained a dead letter. You have rejected the stakes; I have told you several times that we had put some common sense stakes: not to belong to Parliament in the last five years before joining the board of directors; not to belong to party secretariats. You failed them all. The government will also have a delegation on all the television legislation, which is another way of saying: dear Parliament, you don't count anything; just make some harmless amendments; the basic text is mine and you won't change it. There is no escape, you will do the worst, I am sure, even with the money of the canon, that will be snatched to the citizens to be destined for something else that is not the RAI: the famous surpluses. Much could be done; this money could be used to remove surpluses, which are then escaped, to remove advertising from RAI, as recommended yesterday Marinella Soldi, the managing director of Discovery Channel Europe, to have a public service where you experience, away from the logic of share, and the professionalism and talents feed the world of media, cultural production, young people who work in cinematography and documentary. This would have served to realize that public service ready to fill the Italian generational and cultural gap, which is remarkable. To ferry an analog generation towards the use of media on multiplatform, digital, web; to make independent in forming their own opinion Italian citizens. No, it's too dangerous; it's better to mess them up every day with parcel games and an invitation to gamble or to sleep their consciences with some billing act. Far away the times when a Zavoli, a Nanni Loy, a Biagi told us an Italy without stereotypes helping the Italian people to get out of ignorance. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Even the fascists and the musket put the book on, didn't they? Not today, the tweet and the musket are better. Because, in addition to precariousness and fear, this Premier needs to spread ignorance. Then I say something to the employees of the oppressed RAI: move, protest, denounce the violations you see in the company. I say this to the citizens: just look at the futile programs; massacre them with the audience, because it will be enough to send them away. I ask that this new RAI leadership really try to change, not to be pressed by left and right politicians, by any Matteo Renzi, or by a Gasparri, and try to follow the lighthouse of independence and competence. Otherwise we might as well dismember and sell the RAI, to slices on the fish market, like Fantozzi. We look more beautiful with Europe and we save the money of the canon, which sincerely, to continue to see the Vespa, the Mieli, the Porro, the demented programs of Guardì in the morning, is really money thrown away, Give it to me. The Italians certainly don't have this money anymore. We will change this law, when we are in the government, we guarantee it, and it will happen soon; for now, we declare the vote against. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u327	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u328	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u329	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in order to declare the vote against this measure it would be enough to use the words of the Constitutional Court - and in part I will use them - this very important body in which, no coincidence, yesterday, the Democratic Party, with its agreement with the 5 Star Movement, made sure that there was no representative of the centre-right. Well, the Constitutional Court has established over the years the need to ensure the editorial and institutional independence of the public broadcasting service, in particular from political power, establishing, also in the wake of what the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe has decided, the exclusion of any form of prior control over its activity. The Constitutional Court, in its various judgments, also called for the requirement of a high rate of representative democracy, so all those who speak in vain of partitioning and lottification, go against the Constitutional Court; in fact, the Constitutional Court knows well that representative democracy resides in Parliament. Of course, it will stay a little less if constitutional reform passes, which will join an electoral law in which a single party, perhaps with 25%, can have the majority of parliamentarians, with the addition of senators not elected by the people. It also requires the Constitutional Court - and I quote the words of a judgment - to ensure that the impartiality and objectivity of information can only be guaranteed by the pluralism of the ideal, cultural and political sources and guidelines, in the difficulty that the news and content of the programmes are, in itself and in itself, always and in any case objective. Parliamentary representation - the Constitutional Court continues - which tends to reflect the pluralism existing in society, is therefore, remaining the current regime, as the most appropriate guardian of the conditions necessary to keep the directors of the concessionary company, as far as possible, away from pressures and constraints, which would inevitably affect their objectivity and impartiality. These are judgments of the Constitutional Court, which when it is convenient are used with full hands and when it is not convenient they are not used; for example, when the Constitutional Court states that a certain amount must be paid back to pensioners, less than a fifth is given and it is still called bonuses, as if to say that we were good. In this case, the Constitutional Court says one thing: while recognizing the so-called Gasparri law as constitutional requirements, it warned not to go beyond that level of direct presence of the Executive in the decision-making body of the public company. I remember that the Article 21 association launched an appeal, signed by 50 illustrious constitutionalists, among which, in the first place, the former president of RAI Zaccaria, later also deputy of the Democratic Party, in which it was claimed that the Gasparri law was unconstitutional, which the Constitutional Court then denied. Why, then, would the Gasparri law have been unconstitutional, according to these gentlemen, that roughly referred to the Democratic Party area - I quoted Roberto Zaccaria as his distinguished representative -? Because it provides for two members of the Board of Directors to be appointed by the Government. Well, in the face of these notes, what does the Renzi Government do, faithfully followed by its majority, at least until now? I hope that in the final vote there will be some repentance: let us not limit providence. The Renzi Government, instead of predicting that the members appointed by the Government are two out of nine, states that they are two out of seven, or rather 22 percent, 29 percent. The director-general of the European broadcasting union, the association of European public televisions, in a hearing held not around the world, but in front of the competent Commission of the Senate, said that with this reform Italy would be - or will be - in fact the only great European country in which the head of the company is appointed directly by the government, even after acceptance by the council. This means that Belarus does not think it is a great European country, because that is how it actually works there. Belarus is certainly not my model of democracy: perhaps it is the model of someone here. The Constitutional Court therefore says to pay attention to restricting the government's power, to guarantee the freedom and independence of information, but the government's response is to increase the presence of the government, numerically, on the board of directors. This, however, is only one aspect to be taken into account, because with the director becoming CEO, much of the power will fall into the hands of only one person, who will inevitably be the expression of the governmental majority, who on seven members of the board of directors will find himself having two appointed by the government - there is no doubt about that - while of the four nominated by Parliament, at least two will clearly be the expression of the majority, and already we are four out of seven. Having said that, the representative of RAI employees, first of all because of their strong unionism tending to be left, will probably belong to that political area, but in any case he will be there to represent the employees and therefore - if he wishes - will have to speak against his employer. I do not see him particularly likely as a supporter of independence and pluralism, which, on the other hand, the law and the Constitution, the European Council and the Constitutional Court have specifically established to be a fundamental requirement. Then there's something else to say. It has been said - and it is true - that there will be the mandatory opinion of the Management Board. The rule states in fact that the managing director appoints the top-level managers, acquiring for the directors of network, channel and tested the mandatory opinion of the board of directors, that it is only binding in the case of the directors of the headship if it is expressed with the majority of the two thirds. Already it is absolutely unlikely that you can obtain a majority of two thirds on this board of directors, but if it were - and this would mean that someone appointed by the Government or expression of the majority of Government is contrary to the conduct of this powerful managing director - and therefore the majority of two thirds should argue that the appointment of a network director is not good, because it harms pluralism, the managing director general manager can go ahead with his decision. It can be said that in the case of the headmaster the opinion is binding, but look at the fact that there is much more propaganda with what is not political information, than with what is political information. Joseph Goebbels, a pretty propaganda expert, was saying that maybe someone was inspired. [[Comments from the PD Group]] , that propaganda is all the more effective, much less seems to talk about politics. So a television appearance by some political exponent is much more effective in an entertainment broadcast than in a political broadcast. It is much more effective a conductor, an artist or some character of the show who expresses political views, of course without contradictory, given the nature of the broadcast, rather than an opinion expressed in the context of a news or an electoral forum. That is why this is absolutely unacceptable. I understand that colleagues are disturbed by an intervention that uses the entire time available, but whether it is December 17 or October 6, this is not really a measure to be presented, less than ever with the excuse of the haste of being able to go on vacation. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u330	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u331	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u332	FILIPPI (PD). Mr President, I would say that you appreciate the circumstances and, in order to allow for a more rapid voting procedure, I would ask for permission to hand over the written text of my speech, so that it may be annexed to the report of the sitting, not before I have sincerely thanked the rapporteur and the Undersecretary on behalf of the whole Group for the work they have done in the Commission and in this House, which is not always easy, as has been quite clear. However, they have been able to carry out this work with composure and listening, despite the work at certain stages has lent more support to the provocation, fortunately not collected, than to the discussion of merit. Allow me, Mr President, finally to express my sincere appreciation for the work done in the Commission. It is a thank you to all colleagues, without distinction of any kind, who, even in the distance of position, sometimes considerable, have always maintained the level of a civil and respectful debate, offering contributions in part collected and, from our point of view, improved the measure. I regret, unfortunately, not being able to say the same thing for the proof that has been given in this House today. Pretentious arguments have been repeatedly raised, deliberately put in provocative terms, good for an electoral campaign rather than for a parliamentary debate, though harsh. However, our vote will be strongly in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u333	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u334	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u335	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I find that at this time when we are voting on a reform that the majority considers to be epochal, a broader intervention, I do not say like that of Senator Zavoli, would have been appropriate. You are a little ashamed not to make a complex, articulated and reasoned explanation of vote. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u336	The quantification of the interventions is not in its availability, Senator Airola. I would like to inform you that the coordination proposal C1 has been submitted, of which I read: In Article 2 (10) (c), after the word "buying" insert the comma. The proposal will be voted by show of hands. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u337	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u338	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 7.15 p.m. and resumed at 7.39 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u339	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for coordination C1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u340	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u341	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I call the Conference of Leaders and suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 7.40 p.m. and resumed at 8 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u342	I communicate what the Conference of Leaders has established: it has been decided to include the vote on the draft RAI reform law in the agenda of the Assembly's proceedings, after the vote on the draft stability and budget law, at the sitting on Tuesday 22 December.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u343	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u344	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u345	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). As you said, having been decided by the Conference by a majority, I would ask that that vote be postponed until our work is reopened on 12 January.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u346	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to amend the agenda of the Assembly to postpone the vote on the draft RAI reform law to 12 January, tabled by Senator D'Alì.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u347	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u348	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I shall then refer the vote of the amendment proposal to the sitting on Tuesday 22 December, scheduled for 9.30 a.m., in accordance with the timetable already laid down.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u349	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-555.ana.u350	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 22 December, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.02 p.m.
