ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u4	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the Minutes. The Minutes of yesterday's sitting are very long and I clearly had a little difficulty in examining everything, which I did during the night, to see if everything had been transcribed. Nevertheless, we have also done this kind of work, in order to be precise this morning. I would therefore like to draw attention to some of the contents of the Minutes. During the sitting, on more than one occasion, we raised exceptions with regard to the decisions taken by the Presidency, in particular, to the non-eligibility of certain amendments, because of the extraneous nature of the matter, but subsequently other amendments of a similar nature, if not identical, were accepted, without the extraneous nature of the matter. We have raised a number of issues, but the minutes do not show - at least since the first check we have been able to make - the Presidency's replies: I refer to the 'vabè', used on more than one occasion, first by the Calderoli Presidency - I remember yesterday morning - then by the Faithful Presidency and then, if I remember correctly, also by the Lanzillotta Presidency. Our request, therefore, was on more than one occasion cleared with a very laconic answer like a "vabè," and let's move on. That expression, a little out of the microphone and so perceived, does not appear in any part of the report. Therefore, I would ask for the minutes to be corrected, with the introduction, in particular after my speech in which I raised the exception on Amendment 1.9, which was declared inadmissible because of the extraneousness of the matter, of the Presidency's reply, which was made clear with a "vab". This is to remember better what was the term used by the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u5	Senator Crimes, to remind me first of all to myself, I read paragraph 1 of Rule 60 of the Rules of Procedure, which reads as follows: Minutes shall be drawn up for each sitting, which shall contain only acts - and there are - and the deliberations, indicating for the discussions the subject matter and the names of those who took part in them. What you, Senator Crimes, on the other hand, mentioned on this occasion is reported in the shorthand report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u8	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, let's see if I can be more precise. Referring precisely to Rule 60 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, which you have just mentioned, I would kindly ask you to amend the Minutes which have just been read and examined, precisely during the night, by the 5 Star Movement Group. This is a substantial change. Yesterday, at the very stage of the debate on an important part of this procedure, Senator Zeller's first signature of amendment 1,12221, was transformed, as was the case with Senator Zeller, into the agenda. To date, this text has been accepted with a favourable opinion from the Government, but no one in this House has been in a position to read the reformulation of this amendment, which is so important in its content, as it has been transformed into an agenda. I have spoken in favour of the incorrect way in which this amendment is transformed into an agenda, and I would therefore ask that my speech be included, citing at least the amendment in question. I would ask that this amendment be made to the Minutes, citing Rule 60 (1) of our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u9	The statements that have been made will be recorded in the shorthand report of today's sitting. In the Minutes of yesterday's sitting, as specified in Rule 60 (1), they are inadmissible, because it is neither a matter of deliberations nor of speeches. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] Senator Santangelo, you're on record.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u12	GAETTI (M5S). We ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u13	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u14	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u15	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:49 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u16	I take this opportunity to greet the students of the Santa Maria della Porziuncola School in Rome, who are attending our work. We thank them for their liveliness and greet them [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u17	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1385, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of a bill of popular initiative and the draft own-initiative law of the Cirielli deputies; Pisicchio; Bersani and others; Francesco Saverio Romano; Best and others; Lenzi; Zampa and Marzano; Zampa and Ghizzoni; Martella; Francesco Sanna; Bobba and others; Giachetti and others; Giorgia Meloni and others; Rigoni and others; Rigoni and others; Nicoletti and others; Martella and others; Vargiu; Burtone and others; Balduzzi and others; Laffranco and others; Vargiu; Toninelli and others; Door and others; Zaccagnini and others; Valiante and others; Lauricella; Michele Bordo; Marco Meloni and others; Di Battista and others, and 1449.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u20	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Mr President, I would like to say that, following a more careful reading of amendment 1,7001, and also thanks to the contributions of many colleagues and colleagues, I believe that I must make two corrections, which I have already communicated to the Presidency, to the amendment itself. The first, which was born from a confrontation with many colleagues from all the parliamentary groups, such as Senators Chiavaroli and Lanzillotta, corrects a forecast. As my fellow Members will recall, there was no provision in the original text for a rebalancing of representation with regard to the capilists. This rule is introduced by amendment 1,7001 in the proportion of 40 and 60. In addition, writing, providing for the possibility of rounding up to the upper unit, risked producing a shot which, adding up, would dramatically reduce gender representation. Consequently, the correction we believe to make is to replace, at the end of paragraph 4, the words "superior unit" with the words "next unit" (next unit), a mathematical expression which indicates that the closer we approach unity, the more we can make the rounding. The second correction is rather a closing rule. It refers to the hypotheses punctually provided for in point 8 of nullity in the expression of the vote: the final rule of paragraph 6 reads: Any other form of expression of the vote which is different from the provisions of the second paragraph of Article 58, and in this Article, shall determine its nullity. We would add: "In case it is manifested the intention to cancel the card or to make the vote recognizable". I think it is a way of closing the scope of the hypotheses in which the vote can be declared null, having regard to the necessity that the expression of the vote in the ballot is not recognizable or there is a desire to cancel the ballot.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u21	Senator Finocchiaro, excuse me for allowing me to make possible corrections from a non-mathematical but grammatical point of view. Where, in paragraph 4, it is said 'to the nearest unit', I wonder if the term 'nearest' is perhaps more correct. FINOCCHIAR (PD). In fact, it's the mathematical expression. I don't know if it's okay in a law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I believe that, since it is a law, the term "closest" is better than "closest," which is a mathematical term. FINOCCHIAR (PD). Yes, because "more" is "next" and, therefore, in reality, we would find ourselves having "next." PRESIDENT. - The debate is In addition, with regard to the second correction, in paragraph 6: after "determine nullity" "I would perhaps add a "also". Try to reread it as a whole.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u22	I've reread it, and I understand your objection, and I'll think about it for a second. However, it seems to me that paragraph 6 covers all the other modes of expression of the vote, beyond those punctually listed at the previous points, different from the legal forecasts. It seems to me that precisely in this area, vast and unregulated, we refer to this closing rule which, it would be good to specify, takes place whenever this discrepancy, which is not among those that determine expressly nullity, manifests the intention to cancel the card or to make the vote recognizable. In my opinion, therefore, it is not going to do so, but I reserve the right to reflect on your comments because they are normally very relevant.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u25	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, since President Finocchiaro has raised two important issues, in particular the question of the nullity of the vote, which we are well aware of being one of the most sensitive points in the electoral field, and also considering his suggestions, which show that the text may perhaps be improved with some suggestion, I would ask you for a margin of time, in order to be able to assess and have the opportunity to submit some sub-amendments, aimed at introducing prepositions or adverbs that could help the better understanding of the text. We would like to be sure that we do not run into situations in which the Presidents of the Chair, who we know are the final subjects who will ultimately have to interpret these rules and we know that we are ordinary citizens, and therefore not necessarily experts in legal matters or so capable of being ridiculed among all the rules, if the text were not written clearly, they might have some difficulty in interpreting them. We know that often, in particular because of a law that will provide for second-rate preferences after the capilists in small colleges, we can have situations where we can play it at the limit of preference. And therefore, there could be administrative appeals in the rain, which would render the election of the Chamber of Deputies in vain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u26	Senator Crimes, if there are no exceptions, I think his request is correct, but reducing the terms of the possibility, because we are talking about interventions that - as the reading of Senator Finocchiaro - seem even wider than what they are in reality, because they add to a sentence that is already included in the text. Therefore, considering that the twenty minutes from the notice should start, I would suspend the sitting until 10.30 a.m., in order to enable my colleagues to prepare their sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u29	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, the text of the amendments before us should be better reworded, and the authors can think about it during this pause. Writing to the unit is wrong mathematically, because the unit is 1, point and that's it. On the other hand, we should write to the whole positive and, therefore, these words should be replaced in all places where the words "unit" are used.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u30	We thank you for your contribution, Senator Martelli, given your professional experience. We're specializing in all kinds of subjects. The sitting is suspended. [[Applause from the M5S Group. The sitting was suspended at 9.57, and resumed at 10.36 a.m.]] The session is resumed. Colleagues, I would like to inform you that from the prescribed number of senators the request for a secret vote has been made, which will be evaluated by the Presidency. The numerical reference to the sub-amendment for which the request was made will be communicated as soon as the numerical order of the sub-amendments has been established. In the meantime, let us move on to the sub-amendments to Amendment 1,7000. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,7000/1 (text 2)/100.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u33	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I would just like to make one point. I apologise to the Presidency and to my colleagues for the fact that yesterday, on a rough day and in a short time, I unfortunately made a mere material mistake in writing the amendment. On the ninth line, where it reads:... (..) where it has the largest decimal parts of the unused attribution quotients, I used the plural while I should have used the singular. In this sense, I would like to ask for a correction, so that it can be found: (..) in which it has the largest decimal part of the unused allocation quotient. I apologize for this, both with you and with all my colleagues. PRESIDENT. - The debate is That sounds grammatically correct, Senator Marcucci.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u36	Mr Fornaro (PD). Mr President, yesterday, for the sake of clarity and tranquility of all, I asked, if possible, to have, as was the case in the House, a simulation of the effects of the sub-amendment Marcucci. The Government, informally, heard the technicians, replied that this simulation is not possible for a very simple problem: the 100 colleges, unlike the House text (where there were 120, annexes), are not defined and, therefore, in fact, in the absence of colleges, it is not possible to make the simulation. I understand and understand the objection. However, since we have not yet voted and are not in the final text, I would ask for a simulation effort to be made to understand the effects of this change from now on to the House of Deputies. In the absence of the simulation, however, I ask the Government and the presenter to confirm an interpretation, because in the meantime another concern has arisen, and I apologise if I am tedious about a technical aspect. The mechanism so correctly described by my colleague Mr Quagliariello and which I personally share is efficient and ultimately allows us not to limit the chance (because, a priori, it will not be possible to know where it will fall), but, within the constituency, to go to reward the list of that party that obtains a greater consensus within the constituency. Let me give a concrete example: in the Piedmont 2 NCD district, he gets a seat. With the old system, if that seat was lost in the Province of Alexandria - I quote my home, so I make a faster calculation - with the old system would recover in Alexandria, where the NCD takes 2 percent. With this system, in all probability, that surplus seat the PD always loses it in the Province of Alexandria, but the NCD comes to recover it in Cuneo, where it has a historical roots and takes 10 percent. So, there's always a chance: a priori you don't know where you've achieved the best result, but at that point avoid proceeding. The concern I introduced was another one: I am referring to the fact that this mechanism could not, in the case of a limit, determine that at that point the surplus seat of the PD was the only one and, therefore, in an extreme case, that there was no representative of an entire territory in Parliament. My interpretation is that this problem is solved by the fact that allocation, as described in the sub-amendment, concerns only the seats assigned to the lists with the decimal parts of the quotients; therefore, it is not mathematically possible, because of the majority prize awarded to the list. In fact, if there was no majority prize on the list, this could lead to the limit case of a coalition of nanolists. If we go in the direction indicated by the amendments of Senator Finocchiaro and by what has been expressed on several occasions (i.e. with the prize on the list), this problem is solved, because, in fact, we have the certainty that the whole quotient is awarded for the list that receives the majority prize in all colleges. I'll add a second request. If (because it has not yet been voted) the list premium is not foreseen and the coalition premium is retained, this rule must be revised, inserting a closing rule which essentially excludes from the calculation of the surplus ranking those colleges where only one seat has been assigned. I therefore call for a formal commitment from the Government in this direction, that is to say, to carry out a simulation before the House of Deputies passes; secondly, if the text approved by the House of Deputies which provides for the coalition prize is confirmed, I call for the inclusion of a closing rule to ensure - and I stress this - that there is also a better efficiency (to avoid not so much the flipper effect but what I said earlier than the small parties) that there is a representative for each college, because - I remember - we are not talking about small colleges. Until 1992 in the Senate it was possible that there were, for the rankings of lists, colleges without any representatives. Here we are not talking about small colleges, but colleges that reasonably, excluding large cities, will be provincial or multiprovincial. While adhering to the approach of the sub-amendment and sharing the concerns and logic behind it (in line with what Mr Quagliariello said), it seems to me to be a legitimate concern. If the Government declares that it wants to make these two commitments, I will announce that I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u37	Senator Fornaro, I believe that your concerns are legitimate from a mathematical point of view, but I would remind you that we voted on the amendment tabled by Senator Stefano Esposito that provides for the prize to go to the list. Therefore, in the event that Amendment 1,7001, tabled by Senator Finocchiaro, which transposes that principle, should not be adopted, I believe that this is the least of the problems because we would see the explosion of the entire electoral law because there would be no more coincidence between the presuppositions and what is written. He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u38	Of course, I agree with the explanation that President Calderoli has just given, because it is natural that, if some conditions were to change in the choice of electoral law that we are approving in the Senate, corrective measures should necessarily be made. This is in things. Therefore, we will check at the end of the examination of the measure whether there is a need for corrective measures of this kind, but it can be assumed that the problem does not arise.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u41	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would be grateful if you could give us a summary as soon as possible of how we are going to proceed with the work this morning. In connection with Senator Fornaro's statements, I would like to stress that the measure before our examination presents some critical issues, which are evident, in its basic system that provides for distribution in districts and colleges and then the distribution of seats by districts and then further subdivided them into colleges, without taking into account in a direct way the result achieved at the colleges. Perhaps it would have been logical if the hundred colleges had been directly invested by the national central office in the number of seats to be assigned. If the national central office instead of dividing the seats by the number of districts and then dividing the districts into colleges had allocated directly to each college the number of seats required for each list, even in that case small distorting effects could have been verified, but the whole would have had its simplicity. I can already imagine the complications that there will be in the calculations and subcalculations, not to mention the cases of preferences and nullity that we will talk about later. Mr Fornaro raised a problem which we have raised since the beginning of the examination of this law in the Commission. It wasn't just a obstructive matter. I would remind you that in the Commission too we had tabled a few amendments (25). In particular, we had presented an agenda that committed the Government to providing a hypothesis of colleges before proceeding to the final vote. I repeated the request yesterday and resumed it once again: before proceeding with the final vote, it would be appropriate for everyone in this House, all of us, to ask the Government to put in black and white a hypothesis of distribution of the colleges to be annexed to the bill that will be submitted to the vote. Otherwise we will vote on a missing measure of something, missing tables. In the Chamber I remember they pulled them out at the last moment, in one night, on a messy sheet. While I do not agree with Mr Fornaro when he says that we must ask the Government for a commitment (later corrected by President Calderoli in the sense that the Esposito amendment has now put the trap on this law), because unfortunately this is the demonstration of what is happening. In essence, a government - among other things illegitimate, kicking out another illegitimate government (so a series of illegitimate children of this legislature) - is imposing this electoral law. In fact, you, Mr Fornaro, were forced, despite you, to ask the Government to be ready to intervene with corrective measures if necessary. This simply describes the embarrassment in which you, but also all of us, are here because we are asking the Government, even in the absence of a rapporteur, to do the functions of everyone: Government, rapporteur and extensor of this law. This is why this law cannot go on in this way: because it has obvious criticalities that cannot be corrected by continuing to add lines. This is also the legislative schizophrenia we are used to: to heal mistakes on mistakes we continue to add lines and lines to the law. And it will not be over here because even after President Finocchiaro's amendment on cases of nullity, other lines have had to be added to specify even better; but it will not be enough and you will see that a further specification will be needed. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] This is the typical legislative schizophrenia in which we have been involved for decades, so instead of simplifying the rules we go to stratify one on the other, making more and more incomprehensible the laws for citizens, perhaps not for the professionals. Even with regard to all his explanation, my colleague Mr Fornaro, I challenge anyone to understand the details of his calculation and simulation without having anything in his hand. I challenge anyone in this House who is not used to playing with electoral laws, with calculations and distributions of seats, to understand what the possible effects are. And so we rely, despite me as always, on technicians, hands that propose and insert something else. But let us remember that it is in the folds of electoral laws, in detail, that the trap is lurking. This electoral law is too much, too complex and articulated in these mechanisms that provide for colleges within the districts, surplus seats and situations to be healed to say that it is a clear and simple law. The electoral law, as you said, does not have to make it clear who won the election night itself. All you care about is knowing who won. Renzi won. You're interested in that, and then as Parliament is composed, you don't give a damn. Let's face it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You only want to know who wins. But then let's change the pattern of this state, let's make it an elective monarchy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I have said this on other occasions, and I repeat this: this is an inverse act that uses an electoral law to change the model of state provided for in our Constitution and to change the existing institutional model. But this is not a real electoral law, because it should adapt to the institutional model in force. Therefore, for the next passage in the Senate of constitutional reform, I propose to add two lines: Italy is an elective monarchy. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u44	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, already yesterday, in this House, I explained the difficulties in intervening on this mechanism. I am referring to the fact that, frankly, it is quite unusual for an electoral law to be made, with all the relevant technical problems of a particular nature, followed by others, in the Plenary Assembly, without an inquiry in the Commission, which is necessary to carry out careful checks also from a technical point of view. The establishment of this law makes the mechanism for allocating seats totally unpredictable, especially for smaller parties. The mechanism for allocating surplus and deficit seats is even more complicated. I already explained that yesterday. In the current law we have only 26 districts and therefore the mechanism is much easier. There is also a small percentage of unpredictability, but it is reduced. Now, with the mechanism of the hundred multi-name colleges it really becomes a roulette. This shows us that the establishment of the law, which we dispute, makes it very complicated, for a series of mechanisms, to make the elector - which is the subject that interests us - understand where his vote goes. That is the essential problem. We have discussed both the choice of representative directly and the votes cast in favour of the parties, since we do not know where they are going precisely because of the presence of this mechanism; so much so that we have to intervene to try to reduce the damage. Now, this sub-amendment seeks precisely to do this: it seeks to intervene to reduce the damage, i.e. this unpredictability restricting it, even if it continues to be unpredictable to understand which seats will trigger the mechanism. That is why the sub-amendment we are debating is somewhat efficient, but what is in our view questionable is precisely the mechanism, the system itself. With a view to reducing the damage, this sub-amendment can work, but I challenge anyone - and I say it to my colleagues - to say, when we get to vote, that they have understood well (having entered into the analysis of the technical details to which others will follow) in which direction the vote is being expressed and what the final result of the law will be. From this point of view, therefore, I believe that we should reflect. I do not ask for self-criticism, but the senators were not in a position to be calm and peace would have been there only if we had arrived in this House with a text drawn up by the Commission, after a very careful discussion and technical verification. In fact, the work in the Commission would have given us the opportunity to be technical, to be able to do a simulation more clearly, to discuss the issue of colleges (because those planned in the House, 120, were guidance, but were reduced). This is the general vulnus, the haste with which we wanted to proceed, which, among other things, we put to the attention of the House yesterday, with the vote on the timetable, when we had put forward a proposal of absolute common sense. However, with a view to reducing the damage, we will vote in abstention on sub-amendment 1,7000/1 (text 2)/100, precisely because it makes a small contribution to efficiency in a system of harm reduction; but it is clear to everyone that it does not modify and cannot change the reality of a system that makes the citizen's vote no longer linkable to the effect that that citizen would like to give both in expressing the choice on the candidate, and, as in this case, on political force.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u47	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the debate is highlighting all the difficulties of a law which should, instead (at least in the hopes that we read in the articles on newspapers and in the announcements made on television), give clarity to citizens and voters. Allow me, Mr President, to bring to the attention of the House the very text of sub-amendment 1,7000/1 (text 2)/100 which, as Mrs De Petris correctly said, is already a limitation of the damage, which is in the same description as what needs to be done. The text reads as follows: If it does not, it shall determine the list which has the highest number of surplus seats and, equally, the list which among them has obtained the surplus seat with the lowest decimal part of the quotient; it shall therefore subtract the seat from that list in the college where it has been obtained with the lowest decimal part of the allocation quotients and assign it to the deficit list which has the largest number of deficit seats and, equally, to the list which among them has the largest decimal part of the quotient which has not given rise to the allocation of seat; the seat shall be assigned to the deficit list in the plurinomial college where it has the largest decimal parts of the unused allocation quotients; it shall then repeat, in succession, such operations until the allocation of all surplus seats to the deficit lists. But this looks like a riddle week rebus! [[Applause from Senator Morra]] I don't want to throw it into jokes, but seriously I say it: maybe it would have been more correct to put in the crosswords, with under the solutions, so that you can see if, interpreting, you can also understand what is written. This is what is actually happening. In the desire to give an electoral law to the country, they are giving further examples of inability to simplify the rules, building systems that need, in order to be a minimum acceptable, balances, weights and counterweights, to add a gram, to remove a penny: they are frightening things. Senator Fornaro first asked to make a projection and to examine what results, to understand, even from a material example, what the real practical effect is: it is not such a complicated operation. Since you want to do it, the government already knows what comes out of it. Otherwise, Mr President, I really doubt that the Government is doing an experiment. How long can we bear people experimenting? This is a country that needs - as some say - rhythm, clear choices; but here we continue to make proposals that, instead, seem (in fact, they are undoubtedly) constantly modified, because they present on every occasion additional harshness that must be filed. Mr President, it is not our fault that the Government wanted to present everything to the House without concluding its work in the Commission at 7.40 a.m., after dealing with the law of stability at night. This is certainly a mistake, even with regard to the electorate who is at home, who has no confidence in politics and political parties, because here - I repeat - these Byzantineisms give only a certainty to the citizens: that everything is taken care of except for their interest. It has been correctly said that by now, only those who win the election are interested. Well, set up the strong premiere, decide that the Premier is the one who is elected and all the others are consequent, let's say irrelevant to the choice of citizens. But let's do it clearly. With these arzigogoli you can not give citizens certainties about politics and what they are doing, because let us remember that outside the country can no longer live with a strangled economy. Will the printers work because there are elections to be held? Long live God! But is that the answer that the country deserves? We approve a simple electoral law that gives clarity and, please, we respond to Senator Fornaro, who simply asks for a projection of what would be the result, even if he knows well that what will come out of this House, passed to the Chamber of Deputies, will no longer be touched, by the very statement of the President of the Council. So either we are going to do a simulation now, or the last check we can do will be on the ground and another time it will be late compared to the disillusionment of the citizens! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u50	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, taking note of the technical difficulties experienced by Senator Fornaro and noted a little by everyone, I have a very concrete proposal. Is it true that, as Senator Fornaro asks, one can ask the Government's commitment to correct what is indicated as a critic, but considering that it is 11:05 and we have committed ourselves to work until noon, without changing the timetable in any way, or rather allowing further acceleration, it would not be better for the faculty to be given - I also ask the opinion of President Finocchiaro - that the proposed amendments can be evaluated in the Commission until this afternoon or Monday morning, because of the technical critical problems that involve, so that, by continuing the work, we can have Parliament vote something understandable and that the text should not come back, later, under the initiative of the Government to be corrected? I am saying: without changing the timetable at all and thus guaranteeing the time that the Government has proposed to the Capigroup, on which it has been agreed, would it not be better for this matter to be consolidated in the Commission so that the text of Senator Marcucci or those of the other amendments can be better configured in order to make a more correct vote? In this way Parliament is now doing this work by entering into the substance of what might be problematic. On Monday, when we resume the vote, we shall be voting quickly on a subject which is understandable and which can find a way of overcoming the technical difficulties.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u51	Colleagues, since we are talking about an amendment to a text that has been subjugated, then the same amendment has been reworded, then a corrective sub-amendment has been tabled and we have now reached the fourth amendment, I believe that we must proceed to this point and define the issue. From reading to me it seems that as set, for the least experience I have of matter, the thing "turns": at first I was the first to claim that the machine, in the first formulation, could not even turn. I therefore call on the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u52	The Government's opinion is in favour of sub-amendment 1,7000/1 (text 2)/100 (text corrected) and sub-amendment 1,7000/1 (text 2) as formulated. The opinion is opposed to the remaining sub-amendments, while it is in favour of sub-amendment 1,7001/204 which will follow...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u53	We are now left with the sub-amendments to Amendment 1,7000. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,7000/1 (text 2)/100 (correct text). GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,7000/1 (text 2)/100 (correct text), tabled by Senator Marcucci. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,7000/1 (text 2/101 to 1,7000/1 (text 2/103) are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,7000/1 (text 2), in the amended text.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u56	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make an explanation of vote. I did so on the sub-sub-sub-amendment and you want me not to do it on a sub-amendment? I'm just saying this to be clear. We are voting on sub-amendment 1,7000/1 (text 2), as amended by Senator Marcucci's sub-sub-amendment. I raised an issue at the outset in the formulation of this law as it is written. I said that about the sub-amendment before, and now I am referring to the whole text of the draft law, in which this amendment is linked. In addition to being incomprehensible this text, as Senator Candiani has already shown, imagine it as part of this bill, which is all incomprehensible even to reading. I don't know if any of you dared to practice looking for reference to number 4). In fact, the text reads: " (...) after the number 4) insert the following: (...) (...) I don't know which of you has searched for this number 4) and if it has managed to identify it easily, because of numbers 4) inside this text there is a tide and I am one inside the other, written in an incomprehensible way even for those who have tried carefully to try to read them. This is because obviously the electoral bill, instead of being composed of articles, has a single article (it almost looks like a law of stability) and a flood of paragraphs, then letters and then new paragraphs and then letters. The most curious thing, however, is that within each paragraph and letter reference is made to the single text, recalling paragraphs and letters. But really, if you try to take the original text of the law you will find it difficult to find the exact points we are discussing. I would challenge anyone to easily find the exact point where this amendment is going to be introduced into the electoral law. I say this also because it is not irrelevant the point where an amendment is inserted, because when it intervenes, it does so at a time when compared to the electoral calculations that are made at the seats and then at the circumscription central offices and then national specifically to respond to situations in case of failure (it should then go to understand negative regarding what). That is why we once again raise the question raised at the beginning and propose that, at the end of this process, before proceeding with the final approval, the Presidency should - and I call on the Presidency to find ways of regulating it - completely rewrite this bill, in the final text, in a more readable way, at least from the point of view of the synopsis and the organization of articles and paragraphs. I know this is not immediately feasible. But at least this commitment should be taken by Parliament, not by the Government. At the end of this process we should be able to find a method, even by presenting a single maxi final amendment that groups everything together and divides the text into articles. We can come up with anything, so we're being disposed of, so let's dare, let's go further, let's throw our hearts over the obstacle - as some say - and try to violate the final frontier of the regulations. [[Applause from Senator Bottici.]] Article 1 breaks it into a thousand articles, so that each article has its own dignity and can be easily read by every citizen. That is why we shall vote against this amendment. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u59	Mr Fornaro (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask for very quick clarification. Of course, having adopted sub-amendment 1,7000/1 (text 2)/100 (correct text) of Senator Marcucci, the whole part from "Al" to "Deficitari" is replaced by that sub-amendment. Therefore, the'resulting' is simply a consequence of the adoption of the sub-amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Integrate this part.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u62	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am wondering whether we Members have the same protection as other people in this country. We have written transparency rules to force the entire civil system to ensure that every citizen is able to know what he is doing. There is a consumer code that protects the consumer, to the point that, if a pre-determined and pre-packaged form is to be signed and there are particularly chaotic or penalising clauses (defined as "vessatories"), these must even be signed separately and repeatedly. The essence is that we give citizens a guarantee that everyone must know what they are doing and know the consequences of their actions. Well, we are guaranteeing it to everyone, but we are not guaranteeing it primarily to Members and, secondly, to candidates. A candidate might want to know what is going on; I challenge the thousands of candidates who will compete in the next election campaign to know, if they are not capilist, whether or not they are lucky enough to re-enter this great game, pinball or roulette (defined in various ways). Already the fact of writing it in this way (the list which has the highest number of surplus seats and, equally, the list which among them obtained the surplus seat with the lowest decimal part of the quotient; He then subtracts the seat from that list in that college (...) and assigns it to the deficit list which has the largest number of deficit seats and, in the same way as these,...... ensures that we are already basically in the balloon. According to the codistics this would require a glossary to precede a rule of this type, to make it clear what the surplus list is and what the deficit seat is. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We are operating in the most chaotic way and I believe that no country in the world has ever drawn up an electoral law with these dynamics and with these complexities. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u65	D'ANNA (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)). Mr President, I would remind you that Mr Bassanini distinguished himself, with great clamour in the press, for having imposed on the public administration the obligation to use terminology accessible to users of his services. Instead, we who are writing a text that does not discipline an office, a service, the provision of any function managed by the public administration, are using, as my Divine colleague says, a hermeneutic terminology, which then has to be interpreted, so much so that we would need a glossary. You teach me that all religions are hermeneutic and draw their interpretation, precisely, from the reading of what is written: so is the Koran and it is also the Gospel. We would need hermeneutes who, interpreting this dark and oracular semantics, do a bit like the Sibilla, who thus replied to a soldier who went to war: "Ibis et redibis non morieris in belle ", "you will go and return. You will not die in war." Then when the widow of the warrior, who had died, returned to her, the Sibilla said, "You misunderstand, because I said: "Ibis et redibis non, morieris in belle ", "you will go and you will not return. You will die in war." Indeed, we are in the same oracular condition as the Sibyls. It is true that my party is about to bring Antonio Zequila, called "er Pantanda," into the field, so that everything is now possible... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u66	I apologize, Senator D'Anna, it was a minor technical failure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u67	D'ANNA (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)). It's a matter of underwear. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Or maybe it was automatic censorship. You may continue, Senator D'Anna. D'ANNA (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)). So, with "er Mutanda," in the next Parliament we will certainly have the plastic application of this vademecum and this Zibaldone. But I wanted to ask Mr Boschi what follows. This effort to wrap the mystery in an enigma, that is to clarify what is possible to clarify, couldn't you do it a little earlier? We arrived here with the date of August 10th for constitutional reform. Now, you've given us the date before the election of the Head of State. We should show the muscles and, therefore, say that we have conditioned you. Or, vice versa, you fool us on Italicum and then do as you wish, but it's not my head that will dance if this second event comes true. Then, however, we give to my learned and highly esteemed colleagues Finocchiaro, Zanda, Sacconi, Zeller, Susta and Paolo Romani the task of clarifying or interpreting the oracle. Excuse me, but wouldn't it have been better to do some repetitions from Bassanini or involve these senators, one of whom is President of the Commission, so that an intelligible text might arrive in this House? If in a small municipality in Campania (which is all to say) a mayor would propose such a regulation, which needs a four-page amendment to be clarified in some points and a series of sub-amendments, he would be kicked and kicked out. So we are at amateurism. I do not want to make useless sermons and I know that those who listen to me are tetragons, because behind this electoral law we even assume the palinogenesis of the national political system, that is, the cutting of wings and the creation of this new magmatic party in which the repentant liberals and the repentant communists should be put together to form a great central party. There is a small detail, for the truth, if Minister Boschi wanted to listen to me: generally, political movements arise from the value horizon, from the contents, from what individuals believe as a model of state and society; they are not born by doing the Zibaldone or a junior "Frankstein" taking Verdini's head and putting it on the trunk of the Boschi [[Applause from the GAL Groups (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI), M5S, LN-Aut and Misto-MovX]] , because it would, in this case, equip the Woods with particular acumen, but Verdini with an unusual beauty. [[Applause and laughter from the LAG groups (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI), M5S, LN-Aut and Misto-MovX.]] That being said, let's be careful with these monsters. For the truth, I would say that Anna Finocchiaro had the skills to write it well, this law, without the need for one or the other correction. I then make a provoking proposal, but you must know that the paradox was used by Socrates for the maieutic, for the art of giving birth to the minds, and it was seasoned with irony, which means, from the Greek, interrogating by concealing. Forget about constitutionalists and politicians and call a professor of electoral law. [[Senator Tonini's comments.]] I know one very good in Vicenza, to which I had to turn in 2008 to make a formula, because those of my party in Campania sailed and watered in the most absolute way, with which the votes were introduced and the seats were assigned: very simple. Let's do this, put a nice formula in here, because this is possible, mathematics allows it; a formula with which the electoral offices and even the dumbest of the candidates - at the time I was the one who confessed not to understand anything - insert the votes and get the seats. This is the first system to avoid scams, to prevent night in the prefecture, to prevent the good candidate, as Senator Divina said, from even having the rights that the most elementary consumer has. Workers or vacuum cleaners are also equipped with a maintenance and use manual. Make sure that in this electoral law, which has become so complex and - I repeat - hermeneutic, it has a very simple formula that, on the basis of the arcanes in here, converts the votes of the individual lists into the seats, taking into account the mechanism that is foreseen here. And if I've bothered you, excuse me. You know, Manzoni said, he didn't do it on purpose. [[Applause from the LAG groups (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI), M5S, LN-Aut and Misto-MovX.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u70	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Mr President, I would like to make it clear to my fellow Members that the way in which we are proceeding is exactly what was done in the Commission, because the amendments I signed, with the addition of the question of the so-called anti-flipper rule and the addition of the date of application of this electoral law, are the Commission's amendments. This has been the case, because we are acting on the single text of electoral laws. This means that we have an obligation to act in an amendment on the Single Text and it also means that, approved the law, from the next morning, on any collection - I think, for example, at "Reggi d'Italia" De Agostini - we will find the Single Text of the electoral laws, interpolated with the content of these amendments. Reading will therefore be smooth and easy for anyone, candidate, citizen or scholar who wants to do so. In the note there will be a reference to the interpretations brought by the law, when it will be finally approved. I say this because attention to the sources and clarity of the sources is obviously the first concern of every Member of Parliament, especially when he had the responsibility in the Commission to ensure that an electoral law was passed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u72	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u73	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, as I have already announced, I shall be voting against it by my group. I came here so that the citizens could impose their logic on the palace and the institutions that had for too long abandoned the road traveled by ordinary citizens, by people who - I say this with pride - like the famous Renzo, since his colleague D'Anna mentioned Manzoni, have a simple and naive sense of justice, even if sometimes they come to meet some good things that, through the use of Latino, try to create confusion. The electoral law, which is a very important law, had to respond first of all to criteria of simplicity, not to win, but to ensure the participation of citizens in the vote, because a true democracy is not the one in which someone wins, but the one in which everyone feels involved. With this electoral law, with amendments and sub-amendments that, on the contrary, generate additional elements of complexity and, therefore, pinball effect, distorting effects, difficulties of calculation (exactly, as my colleague Mr Crimes said yesterday), problems that no rule can solve with regard to the allocation of seats, you are producing a text that will have as an explicit purpose, and perhaps this falls within the objectives of the Nazarene Pact, that of increasingly alienating the citizens of politics. We wanted to oppose this. For this reason, in particular, I will not participate in the vote, because this is a further demonstration of how politics can - if it wants to - demonstrate its intellectual refinement, but not to get closer to the citizens, but rather to get away from them. I don't accept that. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u76	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I rise to express my opposition to this amendment, on the basis of the comments made by my previous colleagues. It is not clear - as a comedian on television said in a sketch some time ago - and it remains unclear, so much so that, as President Finocchiaro just said, so that the operators of the law, not the citizens, can easily distangle themselves in the midst of rules of this kind, they must refer to the competition of private operators such as De Agostini, who edits the collection of norms "Laws of Italy." The point on which I would ask Members to focus their attention is the principle of law that ignorance of law does not excuse: this principle is essentially incompatible with the way we produce rules. We produce standards like this, because those who propose them have a twisted design. I acknowledge President Finocchiaro's enormous effort in the Commission to be able to make clear a design that came from outside and was twisted and that it has remained: there must be the capilists stuck, because we must give the feeling to the citizens that, in fact, they count their vote (but it does not count). This type of setting, which is twisted, is like steel: you can bend it, but to a certain extent. With all possible efforts, in the end there is something difficult to understand, which needs interpretation and which, therefore, gives space. Who's he giving space to? I imagine that the presidents of the seats, when they have to read the product of our work, will have to rely on circulars of the Ministry because the law, in itself, is not understood. We can motivate differently; we can justify it or not, but we don't understand it. Putting it together with the principle that ignorance of the law does not justify those who violate the law, we realize how unfair our way of working and how much - basically - we are not doing a good job: we are not doing it in the form, because, basically, who wanted this law a good job did not want to do it. [[Applause from the Mixed ILC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u78	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u79	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, I, like Mr Morra, will not take part in the vote. Right now I feel a lot like Claudio Bisio in the movie "Welcome President!" (I don't know if you've seen it). [[Applause from Senator Bocchino]] I am going to read some texts of which I really do not understand a single word, one can say. I challenge Senator Marcucci to explain to me, with an example, the text he proposed. Senator Finocchiaro has just said that this will fit into a wider picture, but if I insert this text (I am referring to the provision for which: If it does not, it determines the list with the largest number of seats in excess (...). I can go on reading, but I will not do so because my colleague Mr Candiani has already done so. I forgive Senator Finocchiaro and also my colleague Marcucci, but, before voting, I would like to have a clear example of what would happen in applying this provision. In fact, as my colleague Mr Campanella said, when the Chairman goes to interpret something with this text, some nice jokes will come out to the seats. The result of the vote will not be known the same evening: the result of the vote will be known after months, because those who will try to understand what will be voted will not succeed. There will, therefore, be appeals on appeals. I therefore really call for a decent text to be drawn up and for it to be brought back to the Commission. I know it's impossible, but I still invite you to do it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u81	So much dissent today.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u82	I take note of that and give you the floor. PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, in fact I disagree with the Group and will vote in favour of this amendment, partly because the rule does not allow ignorance. I shall read: If not, determine the list which has the largest number of seats in excess.............................................................................................. Understood, right? Again: In the same way as these, the list which among them obtained the surplus seat with the lowest decimal part of the quotient, subtracts the seat from that list in the college where it was obtained with the lowest decimal part of the quotient and assigns it to the deficit list which has the highest number of deficit seats and, on the same basis, the list which among them obtained the surplus seat with the lowest decimal part of the quotient; subtracts the seat from that list - in the college where it was obtained with the lowest decimal part of the allocation quotients - and assigns it to the deficit list which has the largest number of deficit seats and, on the same basis, to the list which has the largest decimal part of the quotient which did not give rise to the allocation of seat; the seat is assigned to the deficit list in that plurinomial college; - in succession, such operations up to the allocation of all surplus seats to the deficit lists. Who does not understand this is a person who cannot vote, so at this point I announce my vote in favour. [[Laughter and applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u84	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u85	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I am not going to vote because this amendment does not deserve a vote for me. As a well-known adage says: "If you start arguing with an (...) it takes you to its level and beats you with experience". Count Raffaello Mascetti, inventor of the supercazzola, would be proud to read this amendment, which is very clear to me, but precisely because it is very clear it does not deserve to vote because it is a real scam against the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is a way of trying to distort an electoral law, even with these amendments, in order to delete, in fact, the popular will. In the end, this electoral bill has only one purpose: to ensure that you can place what you want in the places you want. With regard to Senator D'Anna's remark, I would like to point out that a formula cannot be envisaged. A formula is an object with so many caselets in which to put a value, instead here there are a lot of "se". At the limit, you could have done a nice flow diagram with all the bifurcations related to the various case studies. Try to do that, then hand over the pattern to someone and ask if they want to understand anything. It's possible, but it doesn't make sense, and because it doesn't make sense, it doesn't even deserve the effort I could make to press the button to vote on it, so I won't. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u87	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u88	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, I too will not vote because I imagine a citizen who will vote with this electoral law, convinced that he will vote on his own candidate and see him elected, and then, with this mechanism, he will realize that another candidate will be elected in another constituency based on the remains and whatever else (because, perhaps, the whole quotient has not been reached in his college and there will be an induced quotient); then we will have to explain it to him. As my parliamentary adventure ends with this parliamentary term, I will attend many of your meetings at the next election round and ask you to explain this particular detail to the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Campanella]] Those of you who will participate in the election campaign will be asked for explanations on this point and I hope you will be able to explain it in a comprehensive way because a person of normal culture cannot understand it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u89	If you want, contact me that I will try to make a contribution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u92	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to remind you that during the hearings held in the first Commission not only on the electoral law but also in the context of constitutional reform many of our auditors had raised a very serious issue, which this House is in some way again dealing with in the course of the debate on sub-amendment 1,7000/1 (text 2), with regard to the way in which this Parliament is legislated: a layering of rules that change in a matter of very few minutes or hours with sub-amendments, with interventions, with the This problem concerns the electoral bill, which is the main law of a democratic system, but we could apply the same parameter if we looked at, for example, the law of stability or other rules. In this regard, I very much appreciated a number of scholars, constitutionalists, whom we heard during the hearing on constitutional reforms and who also raised the issue during the debate on overcoming the perfect bicameralism, the role of the Senate and so on. So it is a question of adopting a completely different way of lawmaking, by subject, which aims to arrive at the formation and implementation of a series of codes, in such a way that even all the changes, perhaps subsequent, can be found within an absolutely readable context and therefore with a systematicity that would certainly have done the good of our country. I say this in response to those who proposed to us as the sole parameter of the reforms the myth of speed, when the problem of our country, as we see and as it is repeated punctually, is to find a method of orderly regulation, such that not only the professionals but any citizen can understand exactly what is written in a law. This problem, which, as you can see on time, is one of the real issues, I say to Minister Boschi. This is an issue which, as has been seen, would have been - this is true - a profound innovation of the Italian political system and the constitutional system, which certainly did not want to be examined with constitutional reform. Some experts were also heard during the hearings during the examination of the draft electoral law; I would like to mention, for example, Besostri, who, among other things, is the author of the appeal that led to judgment No 1 of 2014 of the Constitutional Court on the issue of electoral law. Members will remember this (and, moreover, curious people can see the acts of his hearing), but it was not only Professor Lawyer Besostri who proposed that in electoral matters a code should finally be brought together, and therefore make in some way absolutely legible and understandable, all the electoral laws since in Italy we have many: We have that for the municipalities, for the direct election of the mayor (to which we aspire to arrive also for the election of Parliament), we have the law for the regional elections, then we have a difference between the law for the municipalities above a total of inhabitants and municipalities below. So we have the actual need to get to the realization of a code. Now, as you can see, it is absolutely necessary to address this issue in some way. I had asked Senator Marcucci if it had not been better to table an entirely replacement amendment but obviously by now the disease has taken everyone so that the substance is voted for first, then a second part is voted for, the consequently: at number 1) delete the last period;... I think it really has become a genetic disease and this disease is so serious, I also say this to Senator Campanella, who unfortunately, with regard to the principle you mentioned earlier, even the Constitutional Court has had to say that in view of the complexity and the dark way in which laws are packaged and written, that principle, in fact, now has difficulty being respected and considered valid. Therefore, we have even reached the point that the Court justifies ignorance of the law, because the Court itself has ruled on this before an appeal that raised the question of the intelligibility of the law. [[Bursio in the Chamber]] Mr President, at the moment everyone is very distracted, but the issues raised by this amendment, which we can also apply to subsequent amendments, are obviously more general, almost systemic. All this aggravated by the fact - and I cannot but repeat it, because it is true - that the first-signed amendment by President Finocchiaro was part of the other major amendment (sorry if I use this expression but now the question of trust haunts me) always tabled by the rapporteur. [[Applause from Senators Taverna and Mussini.]] It is clear, however, that in the Commission - and I repeat this again - it would have been possible to ask for advice, for example, from Senator Martelli, who knows a great deal about mathematics, to have the opportunity to understand the effects of the law; however, it has not been given a way of doing so, I do not know whether or not, and certainly this is the result. Personally, I appeal for further work. The main amendment, 1,7000, has been separated from the others and I wonder why. I had proposed a single amendment, partly because, among other things, the problem with Forza Italia has now been resolved and so we could achieve a single amendment, entirely replacement and with all the changes made. On the other hand, there are a number of sub-amendments to Amendment 1,7000 which affect part of the text. Amendment 1,700 was originally not signed by Senator Paolo Romani on the issue of the cancellation of coalitions and the award of the prize only to the lists, since it is the last point of negotiation with Forza Italia. Now, however, the problem has been solved. So we could have tabled a single amendment that organically reworded the text, saving all of us these artificial divisions, which by putting together too many elements - and in advance a serious issue - prevent the House and individual senators from being able to vote differently on the basis of different views on individual issues. I am referring to the inclusion in the next point of the Premier, the lowering of the barrier and the award of the prize to the list and no longer to the coalition. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator De Petris. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I conclude by saying that I very much hope - and I appeal to this House - that we will really reform this country and that we will begin to make simple, well-written and comprehensible laws for all citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u94	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u95	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking to announce that I am not taking part in the vote, as other colleagues in my group have already announced. I have served as seat chairman many times, until a few years ago. Therefore, the observations made first by Senator Marton and then by other speakers are very well founded. The incomprehensible and difficult interpretation of a text of law formulated in the manner you are about to do will objectively render the operations of interpretation and strip of votes small tragedies, even human, to the electoral offices that will have to implement them. I remember, when there was the first application of the law on the local elections of mayors, the amount of telegrams and cablegrams that came continuously from the prefecture, trying to give support, in the first application phase of that law, to the understanding of the provisions that were certainly innovative, but also quite complicated (the split vote and so on). If it is true - as I believe - what my leader Cioffi reminded yesterday, namely that this vote imposed by next Tuesday is the first of the two shoes, that the Nazarene pact is clearly imposing, to hand over to your head, the President of the Council (the second shoe of constitutional reforms should arrive, they tell us, after the oath of the new President of the Republic), I want to subtract this game and announce not to participate in the vote on amendment 1.7000/1 (text 2). [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u98	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, I think there is a mistake in writing, because Amendment 1,7000/1 (text 2) begins by saying 'To sub-amendment 1,7000/1'. I believe that, at least, there is a mistake, since the sub-amendment amends the same amendment. These things happen... president. So you vote in dissension from your group? CIOFFI (M5S). No, I'm pointing out at least one mistake written in the text. PRESIDENT. - The debate is But we have already adopted that part, Senator Cioffi, because we have approved the amendment Marcucci 1,7000/1 (text 2)/100. CIOFFI (M5S). However, the general concept remains, namely that we continually legislate and constantly make confusion. Any law should be clear, any citizen who has to enforce and respect the law (because, as we know, the law generally does not admit ignorance) is obliged to apply a law without understanding its meaning. I didn't say it just myself, but I think everyone said it. The real concept is that we are always in this legislative confusion. We, as legislators, should have the task of making a text clear and intelligible to those who have to apply it, which, in this case, are not all citizens, but a part of it. In general, however, as (we remember), as we are told by authoritative newspapers, in the text of the Italian Laws (also considering regional laws and all implementing regulations) the word "derogato" or "exception" appears 60,000 times, this creates an objective problem for citizens who must apply the law and above all respect it. In this case, it seems to me that once again the legislator does not do his job well. I think, therefore, that we should stop for a moment on this amendment and try to make it intelligible and clear. I think this is our job. I therefore ask whether this amendment can be rewritten so that it is intelligible to those who have to apply it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u100	I take note of that. Before I give the floor to Senator Castaldi, I would like to make a reference to colleagues. I understand that any kind of intervention is absolutely legitimate within the limits that have been set, but I believe that the approval at least of the sub-amendment Finocchiaro allows us to see a part of the path achieved, which would perhaps avoid the convening of a Conference of the Leaders that would lead to a quota of the times; I would like to arrive at the conclusion of the examination of everything without having to arrive at this. Then the House will decide what it thinks. I give you the floor, Senator Castaldi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u101	Mr President, I am far from being obstructive. [[Comments from the PD Group]] When you consider taking the floor for me to vote on the amendment, do so. However, I would like my abstention to remain in the record, not for anything else, but because last night I pointed out how the parties write the programs to prove that they are doing something, but then they do the exact opposite. The programs, then, are stated and some read them and those who do not read them. Yesterday Senator Stefano Esposito gave us a demonstration of this: he presented an electoral bill against the nominations and he himself, with the Espositum, proposed 84 percent of nominations to the Chamber of Deputies. However, I would like to point out to you, particularly those who are members of the parties (who, with their programs, were in fact dividing themselves by stealing the vote from those on the right and from those on the left), that, in addition to removing democracy from the citizens, you are also removing it from your members, to whom you no longer allow yourself to run because with this electoral law in here you will always sit and only you. I want to point this out to those who are members of the parties, because the poor mayors find themselves like the mayor PD of Tollo, a small town in my Province, that in front of a citizen who now knows what you really do, thanks to the presence of the citizens in Parliament and the network, he no longer knew what to say or what to do - poor man - when he wanted to justify the drilling. It is the same concept that Senator Gaetti expressed, with the honesty he has, seeing that if I'm not mistaken he has already been city councilman and therefore he is at his second term, and last, according to the practice of the 5 Star Movement - without laws - and I thank him. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Every one of us here - and even the citizens who listen to us from home - has a duty to inform people and put these here in front of the facts. When they don't have answers, I don't know what's gonna happen! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u103	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u104	Stitches (LN-Aut). Mr President, I believe that there must be a problem, not least because those who know how Parliament works know very well that there is a Committee on Legislation in the House which is very attentive to how the rules are formulated. From this point of view, I believe that the way in which this amendment has been formulated will make it necessary for that Committee to intervene, because it is absolutely not understandable and it is a circumstance on which I invite everyone to reflect. Mr President, you have been Minister for simplification and I believe you can understand what is actually happening and what attention the House will and will have to pay to this text. When the initiative was approved to include in the Rules of the House the Committee for Legislation, then President Violante, tried to give the citizen the opportunity to understand what was really written within the norms. I would remind you of a number of speeches made on rules that are not so complex, complicated and written in such a way - pass me the word - that are difficult to understand and abstruse like these, for example on the old financial laws - today the laws of stability - which led the Committee to express an opinion which obliged it to change the text which was then brought to the attention of the House. I would remind you of this reflection and this concern with the intention of inviting all of you to prevent this, unlike the President-in-Office of the Council, from being the final text of the rule. It will be necessary for you - since it is not the League that votes on this law - to intervene again in the Chamber in order to change the rule by transposing the opinion of the Committee on Legislation, which is true that it is not binding, but makes things very clear and tries to bring them closer to the citizens. It's an invitation. For this reason, my group has said that it will abstain, and I will not vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u105	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,7000/1 (text 2), in the amended text, tabled by Senator Finocchiaro. (The vote was followed). VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. President, time! (Some M5S Senators indicate the watch). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u108	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I understand the authority and authority of the President, but it is past noon!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u109	Senator Centinario, having begun the explanation of vote it was good to conclude them - since they were no longer there - with the vote of the amendment to which they had been reported. I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law. In view of the time we have reached, we cannot carry out the speeches at the end of the sitting, which will be postponed until next week.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u110	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-383.ana.u111	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 26 January, at 3 p.m. on the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 12.04 a.m.
