ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11:01 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 9 April.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u4	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation begins (11:08 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: Roma, 10 April 2015 Mr. President, I inform S.V. that the President of the Republic, with his own decree today, adopted on my proposal, accepted the resignation from the post of Deputy Minister to the Ministry of Economic Development resigned by prof. Claudio DE VINCENTI and, with his own decree, adopted on my proposal, after consulting the Council of Ministers, appointed the same prof. Mr Claudio DE VINCENTI State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, acting as Secretary of the Council of Ministers, leaving the post of State Secretary for Economic Development. F.to Matteo Renzi. We wish Professor De Vincenti every success, although we regret the loss of someone who came to Parliament and the Commission to contribute. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u9	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1854, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteurs, Senators Ginetti, Maran and Vattuone, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Ginetti.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u10	Mr President, Decree-Law No 7 of 2015, as amended following examination by the other branch of Parliament, consists of 21 articles, divided into five chapters. It aims to combat international terrorism, as well as to extend international missions of the Armed Forces and Police, development cooperation and support for reconstruction processes and participation in international organisations' initiatives to consolidate peace and stabilisation processes. The measure was assigned to the examination of the Commissions meeting justice, defence and foreign affairs on 1 April, i.e. a few useful days of the Senate's activity compared to the due date for conversion. So in fact, Mr President, the contribution to such an important act, which significantly changes our legal system, has been relative, having been unable to start a fruitful political debate. It is a decree-law that renews the penal code, with new cases of crime for the emergence and the fight against terrorism, also international, that amends the code of criminal procedure and the penitentiary order, as well as the anti-mafia code and the code for the protection of privacy, that modify and widens the action of the Information and Security Services and that establishes the National Public Prosecutor's Office anti-mafia and anti-terrorism. The measure has become necessary in order to introduce urgent measures in our system to combat international terrorism, against radicalisation and violent extremism, also in implementation of Resolution No 2178 of 2014, adopted by the United Nations Security Council, binding on States, aimed at the adoption of measures for the prevention and emergence of the phenomenon, raising to crime also the so-called preparatory acts and movements aimed at participation in acts of terrorism. Indeed, there is no doubt that the framework of international legality and security is constantly evolving in the Mediterranean crisis area enlarged since 2011 and that the threat to security is extended to Europe. This is borne out by the serious events in Paris, the armed attack on the editorial staff of Charlie Hebdo and the Hyper Cacher supermarket, around which the entire European, public and private conscience has been grasped, being an attack on the fundamental freedoms of our democracy. The attack on the museum in Tunis, which also involved our citizens, has made even more evident a threat without borders and which follows new patterns of terrorist formations and interventions that use local groups, individual foreign fighters, recruitment networks that, born to connect a world without more barriers, become an instrument of terror and death. The prevention of the spread of this terrorist phenomenon, with an active dialogue with the States involved, in order to develop integrated strategies, with a global approach to this serious threat, respect for human rights, the fight against the financing of terrorism, also linked to money laundering, a reinforced capacity for economic and social growth in those areas, the consolidation of the processes of democracy are therefore facets of one aspect, complementary and mutually reinforcing. Islamist terrorism goes from Afghan jihad to radical Islam, from 11 September 2001 to today, between new organizations and new associations, from Al Qaeda and al-Zarqawi to the proclamation, by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, of the rebirth of the caliphate and of an Islamic State founded on violence and international crimes against humanity, persecution of minorities and militias that proceed with stonings, beheadings, heinous killings, traffickers of death and human beings, from Boko Haram in Nigeria and Kenya, to the mass graves of Tikrit and the refugee camps of Yarmouk; indiscriminate violence in schools and hospitals, until the destruction of architectural and artistic works and an archaeological heritage symbol of civilization and culture. In this grave context, it has therefore become necessary to strengthen the internal instruments to combat terrorism, innovating our legal system with Decree-Law No 7 of 2015. Chapter I (Articles 1 to 8) of this Regulation is to combat international terrorism. In particular, Article 1 deals with the provisions of the Criminal Code relating to crimes of terrorism, including international, to punish so-called foreign fighters, i.e. those who enlist for the fulfilment of acts of violence with a view to terrorism and applies unless the most serious case of participation in the association with a view to terrorism occurs. In addition, it provides for a new case for anyone who organises, finances or propagates journeys aimed at carrying out conducts for the purpose of terrorism, while Article 270-d punishes those who, after having independently acquired the instructions on the techniques on the use of firearms or explosives, so-called self-training, put in place conducts aimed in a unique way to the commission of such acts. The penalty is aggravated for the crime of training for activities with the purpose of terrorism, when the conduct of those who train or educate are committed through computer or computer tools. In addition, the sentence for terrorist association, assistance to associates, enlistment and organization of expatriation for the purposes of terrorism shall be imposed on the ancillary punishment of the loss of parental responsibility... when a minor is involved. Article 2 introduces measures to counter proselytizing activities via the Internet of so-called foreign fighters. When terrorist offences, the incitement and apology of terrorism are committed by means of computer and telematic means, there are first of all serious penalties. Aggravating similarities are introduced for the possession and manufacture of false documents, crimes for which compulsory arrest is now foreseen. As regards the interception of computer and telematic communications, it is possible to use computer programs to remotely acquire the communications and data present in a computer system. The rules governing the implementation of the penal procedural code are amended: in order to authorise the so-called preventive interceptions also in relation to investigations for crimes in the field of terrorism committed with the use of computer or telematic technologies; in order to establish that the prosecutor of the Republic who authorised the preventive interceptions, where this is indispensable for the continuation of the prevention activities allows the retention of traffic data acquired for a maximum period of 24 months; this derogation does not, of course, include the contents of the interceptions; in order to admit, in any case, the acquisition of documents and computer data kept abroad, also different from those available to the public, with the consent of the legitimate holder. The postal and communications police will also have to keep up to date a black list of websites that are used for the commission of terrorist offences, also in order to facilitate the conduct of judicial investigations, also carried out under cover. At the request of the judicial authority and preferably through the postal and communications police, specific obligations for Internet providers to obscure sites and remove illegal content related to terrorist offences published on the network are introduced, which the Minister of the Interior will have to report in a dedicated section of the annual report on police activity. Furthermore, it is provided that the Strategic Analysis Committee at the Ministry of the Interior may receive from the Financial Information Unit of the Bank of Italy the results of the analyses and studies carried out on specific anomalies arising from the phenomena of money laundering or terrorist financing Article 3 inserts in the penal code two new violations in the matter of weapons: the abusive detention of explosives precursors, pursuant to EU Regulation 98/2013, and the failure to report to the authority of thefts or disappearances of the same precursors for the conducts provided for by the above regulation. An administrative penalty is provided for by operators who, legitimately treating these substances, fail to report suspicious operations to the authorities, and reporting obligations are imposed on those who sell and manufacture weapons, ammunition and exploding materials, in order to allow the Ministry of the Interior to collect information immediately on the matter, through the police via computer or telematics. The single text of public security (Royal Decree No 773 of 1931) is also amended to provide: reporting obligations to the public security authorities also of the long and short arms shippers, having a certain capacity of blows; the abusive detention of weapons, the violation of the reporting obligations of shippers is therefore punished as a violation. The report of the above-mentioned weapons shippers must be made by 4 November 2015. In addition, a ban is introduced on the use of certain categories of hunting weapons under EU Directive 91/477 and a transitional rule is laid down on the use of weapons excluded from hunting. Article 3-a also complements Article 4-a of the penitentiary order and Article 380 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. With the first modification it is expected that promoters, organizers and financiers of the transport of foreigners in the territory of the State to illegally obtain their entry into the national territory can enjoy the penitentiary benefits only if they cooperate with the justice (and mandatory arrest is foreseen). Article 4 intervenes on the anti-mafia code (legislative decree no. 159 of 2011) to extend the discipline of the measures of prevention and expulsion from the State for reasons of terrorism, applied by the judicial authority, and an urgent measure is introduced of the quaestor that, already in the proposal to the court of the measure of special surveillance and the obligation of residence, can dispose in respect of the proposed temporary withdrawal of the passport and the suspension of the validity for the purpose of the expatriation of any other identity document. It is also extended to the national anti-mafia prosecutor, now also anti-terrorism, the ownership of the proposal for the application of asset prevention measures. The commission of crimes in the field of terrorism in the course of the application of definitive preventive measures involves an increase from one third to half of the sentence, and a new crime is foreseen concerning the violation of the ban on expatriation. The single text on immigration (Legislative Decree No 286 of 1998) introduces administrative expulsion by the prefect for the prevention of terrorism against foreigners who carry out important preparatory acts aimed at participating in a conflict abroad in support of organisations pursuing terrorist purposes. Finally, in the provisions implementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, the time limit within which - where translations are necessary - the summary report of the so-called preventive interceptions must be deposited with the public prosecutor who authorised them. Article 4-a amends Article 132 of the Privacy Code on the retention of traffic data for purposes of detection and repression of offences. The duration of the supplier's obligation to keep data relating to electronic traffic is equivalent to that of telephone traffic (twenty-four months). Similarly, it is expected that unanswered call data will be stored for 24 months. Article 6 amends Decree-Law No 144 of 2005 on urgent measures to combat international terrorism, as well as the Law on penitentiary law, in order to extend the possibility of issuing residence permits for investigative purposes to foreigners, including in the course of police operations and transnational crime investigations. It also introduces, on a transitional basis (until 31 January 2016), the possibility for the Information and Security Services to conduct investigative interviews, at the request of the President of the Council and at the authorization of the Attorney General at the Court of Appeal of Rome, of which the National Prosecutor anti-Mafia and anti-terrorism must be informed, and information is also given to the Parliamentary Committee for the security of the Republic. The applicability of the rules derogating from the obligation to denounce the offences and the possibility for the directors of the Information Services to delay the communication to the judicial authority of evidence acquired in relation to the commission of the offences are recalled. Even in such cases, the elements acquired through preventive activities cannot be used in criminal proceedings, without prejudice to investigative purposes. The integration of the content of article 18- bis of the prison order in the matter of talks provides for the possibility for the national prosecutor anti-mafia and anti-terrorism to conduct, without authorization, investigative talks with the prisoners; the same prosecutor must be communicated the authorization measures to the interviews with persons investigated, accused or convicted for crimes with purposes of terrorism. Article 6-bis amends the law on legal assistants in order to coordinate their content with the role of the National Anti-Mafia and Anti-Terrorism Prosecutor, to which it will be, in accordance with Article 11, the proposal for admission to the special protective measures for the revocation or substitution of custody for the application of prison benefits. Article 6b also amends Legislative Decree 231 of 2007, against money laundering and terrorist financing, in order to provide that the national prosecutor anti-mafia and counter-terrorism must be informed of the reports of the Financial Information Unit for Italy, established at the Bank of Italy, concerning suspicious operations of money laundering or terrorist financing transmitted to the DIA and the special currency police unit of the Finance Guard. Article 7 intervenes on the privacy code (legislative decree no. 196 of 2003) to extend the scope of the treatments for police purposes, not only when the treatment for police purposes is provided for by law, but also when provided for by a regulation. Article 8 introduces provisions for the functional and procedural protection of personnel of the Internal and External Information and Security Services. First of all, Article 497 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is amended to provide that such personnel, in the course of a criminal trial on activities carried out under cover, can provide the general coverage used during the operations and is authorised to conduct under the law as a criminal offence also in relation to a specific series of crimes for the purposes of terrorism, operating against them the special cause of non-perpetuality. In addition, the staff of the Armed Forces responsible for the protection of the structures and staff of the Security Information Services are also assigned the status of an officer or a public security officer with preventive police functions. AISE (External Information and Security Agency) is entrusted with the task of carrying out information activities also through electronic research abroad, to protect the economic, scientific and industrial interests of the country. The President of the Council of Ministers shall inform the Copasir every month of these activities. Finally, Articles 9 and 10, which make up Chapter II, on the national coordination of investigations into terrorist offences, including international, provide for the assignment to the national anti-mafia prosecutor of anti-terrorism functions and regulate their organizational adjustments, both in terms of conflicts between prosecutors, and of the transmission of acts to other prosecutors for lack of competence, providing for the access of the national anti-mafia and counter-terrorism prosecutor to the register of crime reports, to the registers of prevention measures and to databases established specifically in the district prosecutors, as well as to the questions of prosecutors in the prosecutor's office, formulated in the context of proceedings relating to crimes with the purpose of terrorism. Article 10 amends certain articles of the Anti-Mafia Code with regard to the organisation of the National Anti-Mafia and Anti-Terrorism Directorate established within the General Prosecutor's Office of the Court of Cassation. Mr President, before I pass the floor to my fellow rapporteurs on Chapter III, which contains provisions on international missions of the armed forces and police, and after explaining the new offences and the new national legal instruments to combat terrorism, I would like to remind you that last Thursday the Senate Assembly adopted an important resolution proposed by the 14th Commission on European policies in the Mediterranean. In fact, in the face of the serious instability involving a large area of the Mediterranean and the Middle East, it is necessary to insist that the European Union, in its unity, should develop common answers (as well as changing internal systems), which are politically strong and effective, for a new and up-to-date European security strategy; it is also necessary to restore centrality and priority to the single European border on the Mediterranean, in terms of security, but also of opportunities, solidarity and control. In short, we need a new paradigm for a strategic quadrant, that of the enlarged Mediterranean, whose political stability, whose democratic, economic and social growth concern us, as protagonists. Even more so today, an assumption of responsibility is due.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to extend a greeting to the students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo Statale Matilde Serao in Volla, in the province of Naples, who are attending our work from the forums. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the Foreign Commission is concerned, the draft law under consideration extends, until 30 September 2015, the ongoing international missions and development cooperation interventions and support for peace and stabilisation processes. The measure confirms the traditional multilateralist approach of our country, which supports those activities and missions through which the international community aims to stabilize critical areas of the world and to overcome conflict scenarios. Italy's approach is also characterised by an effort to combine the military and civil dimensions, in order to contribute to the achievement of the objective of lasting stabilisation in the main areas of intervention. This approach is confirmed by this decree, alongside the missions in the strict sense interventions and initiatives in the humanitarian field, strengthening the rule of law, supporting local administrations and structures of government and economic and social improvement. Chapter III of the measure confirms the authorisation of expenditure, until 30 September 2015, for Italian participation in international missions, which are divided on the basis of geographical criteria, starting with those in Europe, referred to in Article 11 (Georgia, Kosovo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania, Cyprus and the Mediterranean), Asia, referred to in Article 12 (Afghanistan, Qatar, United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Lebanon and also an extension of the employment of military personnel in training activities of Palestinian security forces), and Africa, referred to in Article 13 (Libya, Mali, Horn of Africa, Central African Republic). It is also important to note the provision contained in Article 14 authorising for 2015 a total expenditure of about two million euros for emergency emergency interventions of the local populations in cases of necessity and urgency arranged by the commanders of military contingents participating in international missions in Afghanistan, Lebanon, the Balkans, the Horn of Africa and Libya. Among the other forecasts of interest in Chapter III you can point out the decision to subordinate the continuation of the military operation of the European Union anti-piracy called Atalanta - once concluded and in any case no later than the date of 30 September 2015 - to the evaluation of the developments of the case of the two rifles of the Navy, heard in any case the competent parliamentary Commissions (Article 13, paragraph 3). The profiles of specific interest to the Foreign Commission are contained in Chapter IV of the text, relating to development cooperation initiatives (Article 17), support for peace and stabilisation processes (Article 18), intervention arrangements and other provisions for the operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs administration (Article 19) and the matter of passenger safety (Article 19 bis). Article 17 authorizes until 30 September an expenditure of 68 million euros - in addition to the appropriations already provided for in the 2015 Stability Act - for initiatives aimed at improving the living conditions of the population and refugees, as well as for support for civil reconstruction, in a number of countries: Afghanistan, Republic of Guinea, Iraq, Liberia, Libya, Mali, Myanmar, Pakistan, Sierra Leone, Syria, Somalia, Sudan, South Sudan and Palestine, as well as for assistance to refugees in neighbouring countries. It is also envisaged that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation will facilitate the intervention of non-governmental organizations in the countries referred to, involving, as a priority, those already operating on the ground of proven reliability and operation (Article 17). These interventions, which the Ministry is required to make public, must have particular attention on some issues: the protection of women's rights (and in particular against gender violence), children, the elderly and the development of local self-government capacities, the protection of food safety and the right to health and the fight against the outbreak of the Ebola virus. A cost of EUR 1.7 million for humanitarian demining activities is also foreseen (Article 17 (3)). Article 18 authorises for 2015 the provision of a contribution of EUR 120 million to support Afghanistan's security forces, including police forces. The same article (in paragraph 2) allocates a total of almost 1.5 million euros to interventions in support of stabilisation in countries in a situation of fragility, conflict or post-conflict: mainly Libya, Syria and Iraq. A further two million euros are then earmarked for the implementation of interventions and initiatives in support of peace processes in the countries of sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America and Caribbean. In addition, €2.3 million is provided for Italian participation in the United Nations and NATO Trust Funds, as well as contributions to the Special Tribunal for Lebanon and the establishment of a fund for the promotional campaign of the Italian application to the United Nations Security Council (with a budget of €500,000). The additional paragraphs of the article authorize: an expenditure of approximately € 10.8 million for participation in the European Union's initiatives in the field of civilian crisis management in the CFSP-PSDC, as well as to the cooperation projects of the OSCE and other international organisations, to the trust fund of the ICE at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and to the Foundation Permanent Secretariat of the Adriatic-Ionian Initiative (under paragraph 5); an expenditure of approximately € 9.2 million for the continuation of emergency and security interventions for the protection of Italian citizens and interests abroad (under paragraph 6); an expenditure of € 23 million for the strengthening of security measures of diplomatic representations, Italian institutes of culture and school abroad, as well as to ensure security conditions for personnel employed in crisis areas (under paragraph 7). The same article 18 also authorizes an expenditure of 700,000 euros for the interventions of realization of the new headquarters of the embassy of Italy in Mogadishu (comma 8), and an appropriation of 1,4 million euros for the sending on mission or on journeys of service of the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and international cooperation in areas of crisis (comma 9). In total, the expenditure commitment provided for in Articles 17 and 18 is approximately EUR 240.6 million. Article 19 also contains a provision for the protection of acts and activities already carried out since 1 January 2015 that comply with the rules contained in the decree-law under consideration and within the limits of the resources allocated. The article also provides (in paragraph 2-a) that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs may place officials belonging to the diplomatic career out of the role, thus suspending the payment of remuneration in all its members. Finally, article 19- bis, introduced by the Chamber of Deputies, assigns to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation the function - which in reality already carries out - to make public, through its own site, the conditions and possible risks for travel to foreign countries, also indicating behaviors reasonably aimed at reducing the risks, including the recommendation not to make trips to certain areas. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the rapporteur, Senator Vattuone.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u13	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law put to the vote is affected by the limited time taken to examine the measure due to the impending expiry. I would therefore like to thank the offices and all my colleagues from the three committees involved for their sense of responsibility, which allowed us to arrive at the debate in this House in a short time. There is an extraordinary context in which our role as legislators is today. As highlighted also in the debate in the Chamber, in fact, the decree-law contains a reference to international law and, in line with Article 11 of the Constitution, indicates, as the legal basis of the entire measure, the United Nations Security Council Resolution No 2178, adopted on 24 September 2014 pursuant to Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter and dealing with threats to international peace and security caused by acts of terrorism. The rapporteur, Senator Ginetti, outlined and contextualized well today's debate and the examination of the individual provisions of the decree-law with a view to the global character of the fight against terrorism. Subsequently, the rapporteur, Mr Maran, was equally well placed in the multilateral approach to our country's foreign policy. In the preamble, therefore, it is essential to mention the profound upheavals that have occurred during this last period in the international scene, the evident proliferation of threats to peace and stability and the worsening of the security conditions that can be encountered by all. The situation is constantly changing, it is redesigning the entire framework of international relations and it has an effect on our international projection. However, as has been pointed out, it is clear that Italy in its foreign and defence policy must give itself specific and well-oriented priorities, taking into account our particular exposure to the crises in the enlarged Mediterranean area. This type of approach must also be confirmed for the future, of course, also bringing the specificity of our perspective, as the Government has done and continues to do, and also this House with its own contribution, bringing the specific theme of the Mediterranean to the centre of European policy. With regard to international missions, we are faced with a practice which has become constant since 2001, and which concerns the missions provided for in the same measure within the time limits set by it. In this specific situation, choices have to be made in the real context of international missions in relation to the various implications that derive from them. Moreover, in the absence of a framework discipline on the subject, the use of this measure responds to the need to adapt the regulatory discipline to the specific operational requirements associated with the missions, thus ensuring uniform discipline to be applied in all cases of participation of military personnel in international peace missions. In this regard, it should be recalled that the House is currently examining a framework law on international missions from which a fruitful approach can arise to the discipline of this subject, in the awareness that the framework of the missions has changed radically and progressively in recent years, with repercussions that already have, and that will inevitably have more, impact on defence policy and foreign policy. The focus here must be on precise and concrete aspects that represent the true essence of this measure, namely the fact that international missions have as their objective the construction of peace and see the armed forces engaged and exposed to all kinds of risks precisely to contribute to the maintenance of peace itself. All the international missions of Italy have obtained unanimous recognition from the political and military authorities of the countries in which they have operated; moreover, our military have always been able to come into harmony with the populations stationed in the various theatres in which they have found themselves intervening. Not to mention that almost all the situations that have rendered and which make military intervention necessary involve long-term commitments, which cannot be resolved in a short-term period. The subject of international missions is, therefore, as has already been said on several occasions, among the most delicate, calling into question sensitive issues such as freedom and human life, which require - it must be reiterated vigorously - a very high sense of responsibility in the approach to their treatment. Without forgetting the tribute offered, also and especially in terms of human lives, by our soldiers, who was very high and who testified, also in this respect, the value of excellence that has always distinguished our presence in the context of international missions. Our participation in international operations cannot but recall the question of the two rifles of Marina, Salvatore Girone and Massimiliano Latorre, supporting the constant action of the Government, in order to conclude in definitive terms a truly paradoxical affair. The Armed Forces have become instruments functional to the security and stability of the international community, and this implies, therefore and inevitably, the political courage to use the military instrument for these purposes. Security, therefore, must be considered in its entirety and must be able to count on rapid and courageous political decisions. In this context, significant changes in orientation and approach have been made in relation to certain areas, such as, for example, the radical reform of the procedure for approving weapons programmes. In addition, the forthcoming definition of the White Paper on Defence, which is indispensable to develop cultural and organisational elements that allow the Defense to contribute in an organic way to the country's efforts to define the framework for future security. Turning to the analysis of the measure, Chapter I, which said provisions against international terrorism, there are two rules of specific interest to the defence. Article 5, in the text resulting from the amendments made at first reading, extends to 30 June 2015 the operation of the plan of operational use referred to in Decree-Law No 92 of 2008 on the use of a maximum quota of 3,000 units of military personnel belonging to the Armed Forces for the control of the territory in competition and in conjunction with the police, increasing it by 1,800 men for the prevention of terrorism and extending also, until 31 December 2015, a quota not less than 200 units in the provinces of the Campania Region. An additional military contingent of 600 units will also ensure the security services of the Expo 2015 site. Important changes in the interest of the Defense made during the first reading at the House. In particular, the quota operating in Campania can be increased, from 30 June 2015, to 300 men and the Arma dei Carabinieri will be able to anticipate to 15 April 2015 the recruitment of 150 Carabinieri students to be drawn from the winners of the contest announced in 2010. Until 30 September 2015, the expenditure of EUR 40,453,334 is authorised for the strengthening of the aircraft surveillance and security device in the Central Mediterranean, the so-called Safe Sea operation, as anticipated by the Minister of Defence to the competent Commissions of the two branches of Parliament at the meeting of 19 March. In view of the serious deterioration of the security framework caused by the crisis in Libya, it appears necessary to take measures to ensure the protection of national interests exposed to the greatest risks associated with the advance of the terrorist threat. The infatuation of patrol activities carried out in the Mediterranean area affected by the main communication routes will result in increased protection at sea, in particular in relation to the risk of increased illicit trafficking carried out at sea, mainly arms trafficking, possible infiltration of terrorists into national territory, possible terrorist actions to the detriment of offshore installations and civil and military vessels. This strengthening will also contribute to the gathering of information on the activities of terrorist groups which, for further developments, will see the relevant bodies concerned. The resources allocated will allow to increase adequately the structures of the ordinary aircraft surveillance device for maritime safety with the use of additional naval units, with helicopter component, and aircraft, even remotely piloted, and any further electronic surveillance set-ups. The methods of using drones by the police are then regulated, which therefore include Carabinieri and Guardia di Finanza, with the aim of public security and counter-terrorism. Article 8, also amended by the Chamber of Deputies, introduces provisions aimed at the functional and procedural protection of staff of the Internal and External Information and Security Services. In particular, an amendment made by the Chamber assigns to the Agency of Information and External Security (AISE) the task of carrying out information activities, including through electronic research, exclusively abroad, to protect the interests also of military nature of the Country. Of particular interest to the Defense is Chapter III of the Decree-Law, composed of Articles 11 to 16, which contains provisions on international missions of the Armed Forces and police. Articles 11, 12 and 13 shall include the authorisation of expenditure necessary for the extension of the deadline for Italian participation in several international missions, grouped on the basis of geographical criteria. The division of missions into three articles is confirmed on the basis of the continental allocation of quotas (Europe, Asia, Africa), already adopted from 2014. The operational theatres covered by the previous extension measure are confirmed and are included, as announced in the communications given to Parliament, the Resolute support mission in Afghanistan, a NATO mission that takes over the ISAF mission closed at 31 December last, of a non-combat nature, aimed at carrying out training activities, advice and assistance in favour of the Afghan defence and security forces, for an average employment of about 630 units, compared to 1,500 in 2014 (with a reduction of 870 units) and an expenditure of about 126 million euros. The Italian military will operate, during the first half of 2015, in Herat, in the West region. As from the second half of 2015, as foreseen by NATO planning, a reductive reconfiguration of the forces present in the area will take place, with a view to the progressive concentration in the Kabul area. It should be noted that, with regard to the mission, the conditions laid down in Decree-Law No. 109 of 2014, for which participation in the mission in Afghanistan was subject to the presence of a possible formal request of the Afghan Government, in agreement with international organizations, and communication to the House, are fulfilled. Well, Resolution 2189 of 2014, adopted by the United Nations Security Council on 12 December 2014, acknowledges the United Nations' support for the mission. The President of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and the High Representative of NATO in Afghanistan signed the Status of Forces Agreement in Kabul on 30 September 2014, which defines the terms and conditions under which NATO forces will be deployed in Afghanistan as part of the mission. This agreement was ratified by the Afghan Parliament on 27 November 2014. The Government's prior communication to the Joint Commissions 3rd and 4th of the Senate and III and IV of the Chamber of Deputies was made on 17 December last. The participation in the activities of the international coalition to combat the terrorist threat of the ISIL (Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant) saw an average employment of about 525 units and an expenditure of about 132 million euros. In this regard, a further authorisation of expenditure of approximately 2.9 million is foreseen for the payment, now by then, to the staff who participated in the same activities in Iraq and Kuwait, in the period from 1 November 2014 to 31 December 2014, of the difference between the economic ancillary treatment already perceived and that provided for by this measure. Participation in the NATO Baltic air policy mission is also noted. The mission, initiated at the joint request of Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia, motivated by insufficient capacity and autonomous air defence facilities, is to monitor and identify all violations of the integrity of the airspace of the three Baltic Republics. 14 NATO member states participate in the mission, rotating. The national competition was initially granted until April 2015; however, at the recent NATO-Difesa Ministerial held in Brussels on 5 February 2015, it was expressed in that assembly, on the wish of the Lithuanian Minister of Defence, and with the approval and appreciation of the NATO Assembly, Italy's willingness to extend its air competition by another four months, bringing it up to 31 August 2015. It should be pointed out that this further stay, financed only in part by this decree, will see the remaining part of the expenditure refreshed by the first requesting State, i.e. Lithuania. It was decided, for the anti-piracy missions, to participate only in the mission of the European Union Atalanta, with consequent reduction of the staff employed, from 607 to 525 units, and, for the missions in Libya, the reduction of the staff employed, from 100 to 30 units. The forecast that conditions the continuation of the European Union anti-piracy mission Atalanta beyond 30 September 2015 to the evaluation of the developments of the story of the two rifles of Marina currently held in India, after hearing the competent parliamentary Commissions has been included. In summary, the average size of military personnel employed for international missions has been reduced by more than 13 percent compared to 2014. So we have gone from 4,207 units to 3,650, plus the more than 6,300 units involved in anti-terrorism measures. So, the defense with this measure engages about 10,000 men. Article 14 provides for authorisation of expenditure for the conclusion of insurance and transport contracts for approximately EUR 73 million, of which EUR 8,600,000 for the maintenance of the AISE's info-operative device. The article also contains a series of provisions for the free transfer to other countries of military equipment and equipment. The changes made by the Chamber of Deputies provide for a further authorisation of expenditure of two million euros for the admission of foreign military personnel at the attendance of courses at institutes, schools and military bodies. Article 15 contains rules concerning the law applicable to personnel employed in international missions governed by the decree in question, with particular reference to criminal law. With effect from 1 June 2015, the provisions relating to the use of military Navy units for the protection of merchant ships flying the Italian flag at risk of piracy and, consequently, adapted those relating to the use of private surveillance services for the same purpose are repealed. With regard to financial profiles, the measure provides for a total charge of approximately 911 million euros, of which more than 615 million for defence and international missions, 28,861,258 for safe roads, always in the defense field, and about 7,200,000 for Expo 2015. I leave out the list of missions for which our disengagement is expected shortly and I conclude by recalling that the clearly defined reduction of the commitment in the international context will result in a total reduction of expenditure charged to the budget of the Defense of approximately nine million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, I really conclude by stressing that we are in a historic phase in which the widespread instability that we see in the international scene is even more in need of concerted and multilateral responses and our country intends to ensure its participation in common initiatives towards today's crises. Italy is generously engaged in operations related to the restoration of peace, security and development of oppressed peoples. In an international context marked by the breaking of old geopolitical balances, the fundamental principles of our foreign and security policy, participation in peace processes and the confirmation of the country's international role also in the framework of major multilateral operations are reaffirmed. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u14	I would like to thank the three rapporteurs for their extensive and thorough reports.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been done in the House of Members, we wanted to make a preliminary question because we believe that this measure has multiple aspects of incompatibility with various constitutional rules. In some respects the same timing also poses serious doubts about the requirements of necessity and urgency, since the measure under consideration was launched by the Government five weeks after the attacks in Paris and fifty days after the expiry of the term of the previous decree-law to extend the missions. It is therefore considered that, if there was need and urgency, it could have been done well before. We remember that in other countries, like France itself, it seems that in the order of a few days or perhaps even on the same day, more than 2,000 people were recruited to give their own support to anti-terrorist activity. We believe that there is further concern that the same measure deals with two subjects which could well have been dealt with by two separate measures, one on anti-terrorist measures and another on the extension of military missions. We also take the opportunity to point out that, for the umpteenth time in a decree-law, we go to insert changes that concern the penal code and the code of criminal procedure. The urgent decree is not the most appropriate instrument for incorporating changes that concern strictly code-making, which unfortunately has already happened in this House, with the so-called empty prisons and which is repeated again. For the reasons set out above, we therefore intend to present this proposal for a preliminary ruling, so that the draft law is not examined in title. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u16	He asked Senator De Cristofaro to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u17	Mr President, we too, as already in the Chamber of Deputies, have submitted a preliminary question because we believe that this provision for the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 7 of 18 February 2015 on urgent measures to combat terrorism, including international terrorism, as well as the extension of the international missions of the Armed Forces and the police, presents a series of incompatibility profiles, not only with many constitutional norms, but also with constitutional jurisprudence, which has repeatedly intervened in relation to the circumstances that make the instrument of the Decree-Law admissible or not. This decree-law, in particular, presents a series of contents in our opinion absolutely not homogeneous, in that it approaches the matter of the fight against terrorism, also the international one, that of the international missions of the armed forces and police and even to the initiatives of development cooperation, without taking into account various indications arrived in the past years. I refer, for example, to the letter of 15 July 2009 of the President of the Republic, in which reference is made to the fact that heterogeneous measures in content escape the understanding of public opinion and obviously make the relationship between the citizen and the law more complex. It should also be remembered that the decrees-laws must contain measures for immediate application and their content must be specific, homogeneous and corresponding to the title. It is also possible to recall several judgments of the Constitutional Court, which has repeatedly pointed out that the prerequisites for the exercise without delegation of legislative power by the Government concern the decree-law in its entirety, intended precisely as a set of uniform provisions for matter and purpose. Moreover, constitutional jurisprudence has repeatedly insisted on one point: the decree-law must be objectively unitary; i.e. it must contain a set of uniform provisions, at least by subject matter and purpose. From our point of view, it is enough simply to scroll through the titles and headings of the decree-law in question to realize that, in this case, it is not so (and resoundingly, I would say). Without prejudice, in fact, to the premise of heterogeneity of the matter that characterizes the decree-law, it has chosen to work on a very delicate subject, such as the fight against terrorism, with the introduction of a series of new cases, precisely with an instrument, that of the decree-law, which clearly has its effects from the day following the publication in the Official Journal, therefore immediately, without there has been still the scrutiny of the Chambers. Now, it is clear that, even from a political point of view, in the face of such a serious, important and disruptive issue, that is, measures concerning the security of citizens against terrorism, there would have been a need for a different parliamentary process. Precisely because we are obviously faced with a particularly indiscriminate and cruel terrorism, we would have needed to take the concept of security seriously, but without releasing it - as we risk doing - from the issue of rights and guarantees of freedom. Attention, because this is a very serious theme; it is a theme that has crossed the history of the Italian Republic over the last forty years and it is a theme that has crossed and crosses the political debate also in other countries of the world, which are precisely threatened by terrorist elements. Obviously, the relationship between the fight against terrorism and the rules that, often in a distorted way, end up repressing not only those who are guilty of that type of crime, but also other cases, is a very important point of great importance and of great attention and would have deserved, from our point of view, a different iter to what has been chosen, especially when in the decree in question the strands of the cases referred to in Article 270- bis of the penal code are widened, but the matter is defined, in our opinion, very little precise, however imagining very wide links, which make it unclear the identification of the problems actually present. Moreover, the decree-law also provides for an extension of the cases in order to arrange for the immediate expulsion by the prefect of immigrants, even regular, suspected of the crimes referred to in Article 270 of the penal code. Even this prediction, of course, from our point of view deserves great attention, because, if treated superficially and if treated simply emotionally, emotionally and emergently, it can become illegitimate and even criminal, leading to the possible expulsion of many people who have nothing to do with dangerous environments. In the context of these very serious issues, specifically related to so-called counter-terrorism, there is also a further sensitive point: the authorisation to hold talks with prisoners and internees for information on the prevention of terrorist offences, without the presence of a lawyer defender. This is another subject which seems very serious to us. Added to this is the other part of this measure, which concerns the international missions in which our country is engaged. We have said several times in the past months, when we have dealt with the issue of missions, that it would have been much more serious and more appropriate to deal with them separately, because it is not true that all missions are the same. There are obviously missions that determine a political judgment and a positive historical budget and missions that determine a lot more political judgment; therefore, it was only for this reason that it would have been appropriate to discuss them one by one and not all together. Well, in this case we continue to discuss missions not separately. Of course, while we are aware of our country's obligations as a member of the European Union or NATO, we do not believe that the relationship with the multilateral reference organisations can imply an automatic obligation to participate in each mission, regardless of the level of judgment that the national Parliament can express towards each of them. Therefore it would have been much more correct in our opinion - as we haven't stopped repeating for many months to this part - to assess for each mission whether, how much and how to contribute; instead the use of the instrument of the decree-law prevents precisely this type of accurate analysis. Moreover, the technical reports which are regularly annexed to the measures are very often missing, even in a very significant way, all the information relating to the costs of the individual missions. In short, once again it seems very risky, in the given matter, to recall the requirements of necessity and urgency. We also believe that the extraordinary nature of government intervention is missing, as provided for in Article 77 of the Constitution, and that is why we propose not to proceed with the examination of the bill of conversion. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and the Senators Mussini and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u18	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u21	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group has always considered our country's participation in international missions to be extremely important, meaning it as a fact of real participation and presence and as a possibility, which of course must be exploited with some credibility, to have a say in the major international bodies. Our participation in the missions, as well as their importance in itself, is also relevant in this sense, that is, to ensure that Italy can really be an active part, with some power to influence the decisions of international bodies. The missions themselves are important because we cannot think that the prevention of terrorism or acts of violence or of any kind of aggressive action against our country can be carried out as if we were in the nineteenth century, that is, only by deploying armies at the borders: of course, we must have the foresight and the ability to know that peace must be protected and certain situations in missions abroad. However, it is precisely for this reason that we consider it extremely negative that the Government wanted to mix with this specific point, namely that of missions, several other topics. It is not only the anti-terrorism measures introduced by decree-law, which are extremely invasive, on which it would have been appropriate to evaluate in depth the constitutional guarantees that must remain, even in emergency or pre-emergency situations; there is good other: there are measures for cooperation and development that I think give the green light to finance friendly organizations, that more than in those countries that are listed, I believe that they are in our country, to make certain organizations friends in order to create electoral consensus. Therefore, we will vote to abstain on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling in order to represent our intention to favour, as we have always done, both in the majority and in the opposition, the approval of the extension of international missions, but we want to point out our deep disagreement about the way in which we wanted to mix this very specific point with completely uneven arguments, among other things - they are or should be known to all the judgments of the Constitutional Court - exposing the whole of these measures to the risk of a judgment of the Constitutional Court that one day tells us that those measures are not valid and must lapse because they have been launched within a widely uneven measure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u22	We greet the students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo "Diego Valeri" in Campolongo Maggiore, in the province of Venice, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u25	TONINI (PD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, fellow senators, the decree-law before us is intended to launch an appropriate policy of prevention and protection against terrorist threats, prevention - here is the point - which must be carried out not only internally but also internationally, with particular reference to territories with greater criticality. This is also the result of the need for seemingly heterogeneous rules, which, however, have in this element the point of synthesis and connection. The consolidation of peace and stabilisation processes in areas of crisis, in fact, increasingly acquires a preventive function and becomes an essential element of foreign policy with positive repercussions also on the security of citizens. In fact, the fight against terrorism requires a concrete, responsible and global approach to the issues it poses through measures aimed at strengthening the instruments of prevention and repression of the phenomenon within the country and through participation in international missions that meet the same objectives. The measure before the House today contains its own necessary and urgent provisions, in compliance with Article 77 of the Constitution, in order to combat the growth of terrorism which, especially in recent times, has shown with an incredible increase its most ferocious and alarming face. In this context, therefore, it becomes inevitable to complete the existing regulatory framework by introducing appropriate and selective measures capable of achieving the strengthening of terrorist organisations and of carrying out more stringent controls on the means and materials that could be used, for the execution of attacks, also in the national territory. The provisions of the Decree-Law are, therefore, intended to give full implementation in the internal legal order to Resolution No 2178 of 2014 adopted by the United Nations Security Council, pursuant to Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations and thus binding on States. The UN resolution obliges States to repress a series of conducts aimed at facilitating, through direct involvement, the execution of terrorist acts also in foreign territory, the latter theme that concerns our country and the harmful activities of foreign fighters. The decree-law, moreover, is placed precisely within a context that provides for the full participation of Italy in the commitment required by the United Nations. It is paradoxical, ladies and gentlemen, that the preliminary question of constitutionality is invoked when our Constitution obliges our country, within the framework of the provisions of Article 11 of the Constitution, to comply with the resolutions of the Security Council precisely because Italy, pursuant to that Article, devolves a part of its sovereignty to international bodies that are elected to guarantee an order of peace and justice between nations. The rules of the measure are based on a unified legislative philosophy, represented by the protection of the security of our citizens through measures of a national and international nature. The Government, therefore, through this measure, intends to put in place an effective and correct policy of prevention and protection against the terrorist threat based on the principle that this battle, in order to be successful, must be conducted in terms of both internal and external security. So, the profiles denounced by colleagues of alleged inconstitutionality have no reason to be. I conclude with a reference to the decision of the Constitutional Court No 220 of 2013, which refers to the requirement of homogeneity of the provisions of a decree-law either to the matter or to the purpose. And in the present circumstance the profile of the purpose, that is the effective fight against terrorism in its internal and international dimension, is preeminent and difficult to dispute in the light of the elements reported. It is for this reason that we will vote on this decree-law with a serene conscience to make the country's interest in the precise beehive of constitutional provisions. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u26	I put to the vote the question referred to you for a number of reasons by Senator Stefani and other senators (QP1) and Senator De Petris and other senators (QP2). It's not approved. De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u27	Mr President, Decree-Law No 7 of 18 February 2015 extending the international missions of the Armed Forces and the police and some initiatives for development cooperation and support for reconstruction processes is re-proposed without having those urgent requirements which should be specific to this type of measure. Meanwhile, according to press reports, Italian military spending has increased again, from 65 million euros per day in 2013 to almost 70 in 2014, and everything suggests that in 2015 it is expected to reach 80 million euros per day. And this does not include extra-budget military expenses, such as those that gravitate to the Ministry of Economic Development for the construction of weapon systems and the Ministry of Economy and Finance for the sustenance of missions abroad. According to SIPRI, Italy is the twelfth country in the world for the size of military spending and one of the most important for the number of soldiers engaged in foreign operations. Among the missions provided for in this decree-law there are different ones - such as those in the Balkan area - that began several years ago, and the initial objective has actually changed: there is no longer a need to enforce agreements on the ceasefire, but tasks are carried out, from border control to internal public order, which could be carried out quietly by local police. It is clear that those States have an interest in these roles being played by international forces, allowing hosts to save in their own resources. In Italy, on the other hand, there are strong interests in keeping international missions up, because they are linked to the activities of arms companies and military leaders who are collusion with them in favoring their affairs at the expense of public finance. The military missions are the ones that justify the continuous, sensible use of our military polygons and the spending of a mountain of money circulating around the polygon system. The companies that build weapons and military means, the leaders of the Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defence constitute a triangle of interests that is supported with our public money. This goes, of course, to the detriment of the national production system, which has entered into crisis mainly because of the proliferation of unproductive investments, as can be seen from all those involved in the production of arms and military means. Overall, the decree-law comprises more than thirty different military interventions abroad, in more than twenty different countries, not to mention the initiatives that are characterized by the primary use of non-military instruments. In the face of such complexity, the reasons for a direct conversion to law are beyond doubt, which, among many things, has the sure effect of undermining the role and function of Parliament in a dimension, that of the power of war and of the budget, which is its own. It is impossible not to point out that the decree-law continues to provide for the extension of military interventions which, when not harmful, are at least anachronistic. Despite this, our country seems to need new tools to deal with other emergencies, so much so as to have finally arranged Triton, yet another operation of monitoring of the marine traffic. Overcoming the circumstances is the EUFOR Althea mission. The situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina already seems to have changed, so much so that it has already signed the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union in 2007. The same applies to the extension of the Temporary International Presence mission in Hebron, which all seems except temporary, dating back to twenty years ago. We come to the Italian participation in military operations of greater purpose and scope, like the International Security Assistance Force of NATO in Afghanistan, in respect of which one cannot fail to recognize how the end of the mission, scheduled for the end of 2014, has turned out to be a fiction, placed the launch of the next mission called Resolute Support: a fake withdrawal to continue the senseless presence in a war, which has already cost 54 Italian deaths and hundreds of civilian victims. Moreover, we cannot help but wonder how many of the goals set at the base of the United Nation Interim Force in Lebanon have been achieved, so that we can at least glimpse a possible date of conclusion of a particularly costly military intervention for our country. How then can we not ask ourselves how we have come to send yet more of our men to Kurdistan and what the nature, purpose and duration of this particular commitment are? In the present and foreseeable circumstances, it is evident that the Italian military participation in international missions in general, and in Lebanon and Afghanistan in particular, responds to the desire to cut out, through the use of our military device, an international role suited to the interests of the arms trafficking lobby, legal and not, more than the needs of the Italian population, forced to see burning lots of economic resources to the advantage of a huge waste of public money to go and shoot around the world. And this must not make us forget that often, as well as a waste of money and human lives, the international missions in which Italy is involved even contribute to worsen the situation, as happened in the cases of the wars in Iraq and Libya. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u28	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before entering into the heart of my speech and in the light of the latest events in Milan, where a real massacre has taken place, I would like to give my support and admiration to all the men and women of the Forces of Order and to the soldiers who daily risk their lives, sacrificing their existence, in order to guarantee to all of us the security of being able to walk on the streets of our country and feel safe and protected. Italy runs no risk, our country is sure: they are sentences of the last months pronounced by the Minister Alfano. I would say that we can really rest assured if our safety is entrusted to this Minister. Orlando and Alfano wondered, in light of the shooting in the Milan court, in what state is the system of protection and control in Italy. If a private citizen managed to commit a massacre, I wonder a terrorist, a trained militarily what he could have done. And we're talking about a courthouse in a city like Milan. As a citizen and as a Member of Parliament, I would like Mr Alfano and Mr Orlando to come and report to the House, or at least to mea culpa in front of the Italians. Forza Italia is a responsible force, which has as its sole objective to carry out reforms and measures that favour Italians. I would therefore like to stress, during my speech, some critical aspects of the decree-law. First of all, we must point out, with force and clarity, that terrorism is an urgent and real scourge, which does not allow for any loss of time and weak actions, which are unclear, but needs firm and decisive reactions. It's about the lives of millions of people, our loved ones. Mr Undersecretary, I would like to thank you if you would give me the opportunity to continue my speech and, instead, stop your chat with my colleague in the counter below mine. But I understand that you are not interested in this subject. I would ask you, Mr President, to call undersecretary Cassano to listen. First of all, we must point out with force and clarity that terrorism is an urgent and real scourge, which does not allow for any loss of time and weak actions, which are unclear, but needs firm and decisive reactions. We are talking about the lives of millions of people, our loved ones, our families and our children. When we talk about our children, the thought automatically goes to what our future will be: young people from other countries, only apparently far from us, are ready to sacrifice their lives, Mr. Undersecretary, in the name of a religious creed and make that creed a reason for life and death. The West to this day has only shown that it has not fully understood those cultures, those roots, those beliefs that belong to each of those peoples. He has only tried to impose a "democracy" on them, which risks intensifying the hatred and resentment of those young people who feel uprooted from their roots. This decree-law consists of two parts. The first concerns anti-terrorism measures and the second concerns the extension of the international peace missions to which Italy participates. As regards the fight against terrorism, the measures taken seem to be heading in the right direction, because they aim to strengthen intelligence services and strengthen control of national territory. I am referring, for example, to the provisions introducing new crime cases in the field of terrorism, in particular the rules which provide for the imprisonment of anyone who joins terrorist groups and for those who organise travel to that end. Moreover, since in the contemporary world terrorist propaganda takes place also and above all through web communication, it is expected that all sites used for terrorist purposes will be constantly monitored, with the possibility that content deemed illegal will be removed from the site. Finally, it is no small matter that the National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor also takes on the role of National Anti-Terrorist Prosecutor. In fact, the measures contained in the decree-law, although important and useful, are not enough. It is not enough because terrorism does not only concern the national sphere, but it is a transnational problem. For these reasons, Europe has a crucial and decisive role which, however, seems to refuse to play. The European Union should take urgent measures in view of the extreme danger that threatens the entire continent. In addition, it should protect our peninsula with extraordinary measures, precisely because it is geographically closer to the borders of North Africa. We know, in fact, that the Mediterranean basin is currently the scene of conflicts and terrorist activities. The countries of North Africa are going through a very delicate moment: political instability and the collapse of institutions are factors that promote the advance of terrorist groups within their territories and constitute a real threat to international security. This is a situation that puts at risk the very principles of freedom and democracy on which the European Union is based. This should be borne in mind by the European institutions, with the development of a foreign policy strategy that provides an adequate response to the current situation in the Mediterranean and the Middle East, with particular regard to Italy. Europe must therefore be determined and clear in its choices and actions. Next to us - and I say this as an Italian and as a Sicilian - real wars are taking place and Italy alone cannot make it. I imagine a Europe that does not just impose economic restrictions on us, but that makes us feel part of a larger project and leaves us alone. I take a little step back and return to my words about the stubborn attempt not to understand that the peoples of the Arab countries have their own identity as they are and feel themselves a nation. We are going on their territories to impose our concept of "democracy" (always quote this word), imposing rules and depriving them of their own identity as people and nation, preventing the concept of self-determination that is proper to every people. The second part of the decree-law provides for the extension of peace missions abroad. I am in favour, because with these measures we maintain our commitment and our contribution to the peace-building activities carried out by international organisations. For this reason we should clear the field from all internal controversy, which would have the only result of weakening the image and credibility of Italy towards the world. It is not necessary, at least on this point, to divide ourselves: let us try to act together in order to make effective that principle of freedom that we all without distinction, at least in words, scream out loud. We owe it to our military, who must have a united country behind them, and who is on their side, and a state that upholds the rules of engagement and respects the principles of the Constitution. In this respect, I agree with the ratio of Article 13, which makes the continuation of the Atalanta anti-piracy mission conditional on developments in the affair of the two Maroons. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Scilipoti. He's been talking for over ten minutes. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). I would like to make one final point, but as I have finished my time, I would ask that the remaining part of my speech be added to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, the Presidency authorizes you to do so. Senator Santangelo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the people who listen to us from outside, let us try to explain what we are discussing in a language different from what has been used so far. We are examining a decree-law that talks at the same time about urgent measures related to counter-terrorism and international missions. I will deepen the part related to international missions, giving you some specifics and some numbers. For example, in Europe Italy participates in several missions: one in the Balkans, where it spends - think well, citizens - 59,170 million euros compared to 36 million last year. Moreover, this year's resources are valid until September and, therefore, a new measure will certainly be issued in the final part of the year. Again: we are in Bosnia for EUR 200,000; Albania for EUR 4.316 million; Kosovo for EUR 955,000, to which there are 46,000 more for Kosovo. Active Endeavour has been allocated 19,105 million and about 7 million for another mission. Let's go to Asia. We are still in Afghanistan, with a mission that we all know, for 126,406 million. We are still present in the Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Qatar, for 14,384 million euros. Let's also set up a Red Cross mission that operates throughout the Middle East for 519,000 euros. Going down, there are other missions for about 2 million euros and we arrive in Africa. We are present, still for very little, in Libya, because they will pay the expenses to flee, where no real action of contrast is carried out. There is the Atalanta mission, for which we spend 29 million euros, while in Somalia we spend 21; 2 million in Mali; 1.4 million for the EUFOR mission in the Central African Republic and another 500,000 euros always in Africa. So we have a total of EUR 60.327 million. Then there are the general needs of the missions. Consider that, only for the item "Contrats of insurance, transport and construction infrastructures" we pay 73.457.600 euros. Gentlemen: construction of infrastructure! Mr. President, where? Let us begin to talk about the current situation: if we are discussing infrastructure, why at this moment we must talk about the infrastructure that we want to achieve all over the world and we do not realize what is happening in Sicily in recent days? Sicily is on the ground! There are no trains or bridges. Then, in this measure we should talk about terrorism but the real one: the terrorism of companies and of those who managed, of those who built those bridges that are coming down like streams of sand! That's what we should talk about. We should talk about the restructuring of the schools that are falling. A short while ago there was the Minister, but in the meantime we are not talking about it, and today we spend a billion euros on these missions, in the next seven, eight or nine months! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But what sweetheart? The dark man who makes the President of the Council, who comes to tell us that there is a treasure in Italy and does not know how to spend it, today spends a billion euros to send our soldiers around the world to bring war. Last year there was the joke of the 333,000 euros spent on the Republic of Djibouti, to translate the manuals of the means of war. Well, it continues this year: another €91,000 was paid for three aircraft and maintenance tools. In the meantime, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, citizens who are listening to us from outside, this government has made us vote and the majority has only approved the agricultural IMU a few days ago! Mr President, I am about to conclude, because I believe that the time available to me is almost over. We are not dealing with this method, which is insane. It is an insane method for what concerns the Defense, which is the only sector where you spend. I would like to address you, Mr Rossi, who last year, on the closure of Trapani Birgi airport, for which no euro has been allocated to date, said: Don't worry, Senator. I give you my word: there will be a decree. The decree-law was not and in the province of Trapani, for the airport of Trapani Birgi, did not arrive a single euro. Then either you resign or find a solution immediately, because the citizens of that territory, who have suffered objective damages for the bloody war in Libya, have not been compensated for anything. Everyone take their responsibilities. We do not agree with this measure, because it is not sustainable. Let us not say that we do not need to allocate resources for defence, but let us say that this must be a sustainable defence. Have you ever been to an immigrant center? And have you ever verified how much time it takes for the first recognition? I ask you, Mr. Undersecretary, and Deputy Minister Bubbico here: have you ever wondered how much time has passed since the immigrant arrived at the first recognition? I have been in the centers that are in the province of Trapani, I have visited eighteen: well, also based on the data of the prefecture that I invite you to verify, they pass up to six months before the initial recognition. So, what counterterrorism are we talking about? So far it's been great, but it doesn't have to go on like this. People arrive, they are taken from the port and taken to those centres and, after six months, they are recognized for the first time. Then they stay three to four years inside the centers. Haven't you noticed this business? Why aren't we talking about anything? You are convinced that immigration is not related to all that is happening in the world and to wars. You are convinced that it is the fruit of chance, while it is the fruit of the bombs that you, Italians, go to explode in the nations of the world. In the face of this disaster, Mr President, we will firmly say a firm and concrete no. We have also tabled amendments this time and we will see if you have the dignity to discuss and articulate the opinion on them. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u31	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u34	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, the episode of the school in Ostuni, Puglia, is yet another example of how, in our country, public resources are squandered to the detriment of the security and the future of citizens. A shameful business system emerged for the great works, raising the usual hypocritical reaction of a government that, precisely in that system, has the main roots of its consent. Music does not change for ordinary public works, so the current system of power, monopolized by the usual parties of the "young old Renzians," now scattered everywhere between right and left, despite the triumphant propaganda announcements, is not able to guarantee the minimum conditions of safety even to the children of the schools. It is a shame, the total failure of a political class and a system of public administration and public works that must be radically changed. The invitation is that - for once - to think about the future of our boys and not about the coffers of some complacent entrepreneur or the votes for the next election. The citizens have now understood that they cannot have any confidence in the parties of the old politics, managed today by young people with an even older soul than those who preceded them. The 5 Star Movement will watch in Parliament, in the Regions and in the Municipalities, so that citizens can be truly protected and helped to live in a better country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u37	SCIBONA (M5S). Mr President, in October last year I attended, together with regional and municipal councillors of my Group, a meeting organized by the Piedmont Region in Novi Ligure - it is in Piedmont and not in Liguria - on the theme of the Third Jupiter Pass. Among the defendants was also the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, Senator Nencini. In the course of his speech, the Deputy Minister stated that he had on his table the cost-benefit analysis, of which we made a timely request, which had to be accompanied by numerous e-mails, phone calls and everything else, in order to obtain, with five months of delay, an official piece of paper bearing the date of 2002 and, therefore, absolutely recent. From a first analysis by profanes of this sheet - I did not analyze it anyway only myself and, indeed, in this regard I thank Professor Marco Ponti and Dr Francesco Ramella for the collaboration - we realize the existence of very optimistic forecasts, that in part these are now dated, even if the document reports situations that have not been absolutely verified. Also in the document it is stated that the saturation of the lines to 2010 would have been reached with 165 trains goods a day. From official Eurostat data, the number of convoys in 2010 was instead 65, so we are very far from saturation. In the document it is moreover previewed that, always in 2014, the traffic goods increases from 5,8 to 21,8, with an increment therefore of 282 percent: optimism, that is optimism! With this method of estimation it seems, therefore, completely inconsistent to say that the Third Pass is a necessary strategic task, being the real data very different. From further reflections then, always based on real data assumed from the databases, it comes to the bitter consideration that the Railways have the custom to overestimate these plans and always with a factor of about 15 times greater. Once again, supported by the data, I can say that that of the third pass is a useless work, where the costs far exceed the non-existent benefits. They produce dreamlike, fantastic analyses, to justify how much more irrational it has been designed and now it wants to be realized. The citizens are aware of this, the deception is revealed. Each of us, with the diligence of the good father of the family - the one that is missing from this Government - knows that the Third Jupiter Pass is built for the sole benefit of lobbying who want to get rich. For this reason - and I close - tomorrow I will be in Arquata Scrivia to watch over yet another attempt to expropriate. The last time they tried to tie me up, this time, maybe, take a picture of me, so you can. Saturday 18 I will be back in Arquata Scrivia for the demonstration that opposes this umpteenth waste of public money. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u40	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a few weeks' time we will be commemorating the 20th anniversary of the Srebrenica genocide: a tragedy which - we repeat every year - should be a warning for something that must no longer be repeated. Yet, just a few days ago, UNICEF spoke of a new Srebrenica, in reference to the bloody offensive of ISIS in the refugee camp of Yarmouk, at the gates of Damascus. Faced with this shame, I wonder what we're doing. Mr Gentiloni's speech on the subject and the allocation of funds for a humanitarian corridor must certainly be appreciated. But Italy must make itself felt strongly in international contexts, in order to urge an incisive action that goes beyond the general dismay. Today in Yarmouk 3,500 children live trapped without food or water and the population is subjected to brutal murderous violence. We cannot afford a memory so short that we remain inert to look at this yet another humanitarian tragedy. I therefore urge the Government of my country to take appropriate action.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u43	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak again to ask for an answer to the question. I am referring in particular to the questioning 2-00253, which I asked for ten days ago. From that intervention and from the presentation of the questioning many representatives of the CAFs and the unions of the tenants have urged me to have the relative response of the Government. The question concerns the interpretation of the law on housing emergency which, in Article 7, speaks of deductions ranging from 900 to 450 euros for the inhabitants for rent in social housing. It is not clear, however, whether social housing, as required by law, also includes public housing. This is a doubt that must be resolved. Of course, both CAFs and tenant unions are urged to know who can enjoy such deductions. I therefore believe that it is urgent for the Government to give a clear answer on this issue. I'm not warming up to support one or the other hypothesis in the answer. I just think we need clarity and transparency, because everyone needs to be able to understand what that article entails for the Ministry of Finance and what citizens can benefit from it. Therefore, Mr President, I would ask you once again to ask for an answer to this question, knowing that there is such an urgent need.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u44	Senator Mirabelli, the Presidency is even embarrassed, because by now it itself is aware of the contents of the questioning fury to listen to the continuous solicitations. I hope someone finally gets to give you an answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u47	ORRU' (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to draw the House's attention to an event which took place in Sicily on 10 April, which had a national resonance. This is yet another structural failure of a motorway viaduct, this time caused by a hilly landslide, on the A19 Palermo-Catania, at km 57,500 of the Himera viaduct. Following this collapse, Sicily is literally paralyzed and divided into two, also in view of the fact that some inner areas have long been isolated, in the Madonie area, due to the landslides caused by the bad weather of recent weeks. In these hours - beyond the appropriate and unavoidable checks that will have to be made in order to establish the possible levels of responsibility and omissions to which the event leads - the first technical surveys have been carried out and, according to what is given to learn, it has emerged that the viaduct Himera is destined to collapse due to natural collapse or because it will be shot down and then rebuilt due to irreparable damage. Even yesterday, a joint meeting here in Rome between ANAS, Region, regional councillors involved, technicians and Civil Protection Department was intended to define the timetable that will lead to the restoration of the connections between Palermo and Catania and to make a first estimate of the costs for the restoration of the motorway section. It has emerged that an alternative route will have to be identified within a couple of months, with a further increase in costs and time for citizens until that date. It is clear that what has happened is the further confirmation of how fundamental it is to make a mapping on the whole territory of the condition of road and rail traffic and, if this applies to all our country, all the more so for the Sicilian Region, that it risks a further isolation from the rest of the nation also in relation to the internal connections. In this regard, I would like to inform the Minister of Transport that I have presented Question 3-01842, in order to ask, among other things, - in addition to the obvious determinations to be taken to shed light on this umpteenth episode and to ascertain any omissions and responsibilities on the administrative, technical and disciplinary level - what measures he intends to take, in consultation with the parties concerned, to prevent the occurrence in the future of such unacceptable situations, which put the lives of citizens at risk. I have asked if it does not consider also opportune, as far as competence, to urge the interested subjects in order to preview the potenziamento of the viabilità on irono and the implementation of the infrastructural secondary network of the Region and above all if it does not consider opportune the urgent convocation of a table of job between Ministry, ANAS, Region, experts and technical interested in order to monitor and verify the entire state of the road and railway infrastructures of the Sicilian Region, with particular regarding the traits that already present known criticalities or that have been subject to structural breaks. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-428.ana.u48	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.59 p.m.
