ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u1	The sitting is open (10:01 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u4	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). Mr President, first of all, I would like to remind you that more than a thousand immigrants arrived in Pozzallo last night, of which about three hundred are unaccompanied minors. I would also ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check, but that no one forgets the many promises made. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. (Senators Giovanardi, Buemi and Scibona point out that they have not been able to make their presence known.) Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved. We take note of the presence of Senators Giovanardi, Buemi and Scibona on the occasion of the verification of the quorum. However, there will be other votes in the morning that will be able to testify to your presence.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (at 10:08 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u8	The Conference of the Leaders approved changes and additions to the current calendar and the new calendar of the Shareholders' Meeting until June 25, 2015. The timetable for next week is complemented by the examination of the draft laws on road murder and delegation for the transposition of directives on public procurement and concessions. In the afternoon of Thursday 11 June Parliament will be convened in a joint sitting for the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, the scheduled Question Time sitting will not take place. In relation to the progress of work in the Chamber of Deputies, the examination of the decree-law on the relaunch of the agricultural sector will take place in the week between 23 and 25 June. Other additions concern, on Wednesday 24 June, the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 25 and 26 June 2015, and, on the same day, the vote on the election of a member of the Presidency Council of the Court of Auditors. In addition, the question time will take place in the afternoon of Thursday, June 25. The other topics already foreseen in the previous calendar remain confirmed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u9	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting this morning with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following additions to the programme of proceedings of the Senate for the months of April, May and June 2015: - Drawing of Law No. 859 and related - Amendments to the penal code, Article 380 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Road Code, in the matter of road murder - Drawing of Law No. 1678 - Delegate to the Government for the implementation of Directive 2014/23/EU of 26 February 2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the award of concession contracts, Directive 2014/24/EU of 26 February 2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council on public procurement and repealing Directive 2004/18/EC and Directive 2004/17/EU of 26 February 2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the procurement procedures of entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal sectors and repealing Directive 2004/17/EC (final vote with the presence of the legal number)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u10	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the timetable for work until 25 June 2015: [[Thursday 4 June ant. h. 10-14 - Following bill n. 667 and connected - Misdemeanor changes of the President of the Republic Thursday 4 June pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] [[Tuesday, June 9 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 859 and related - Criminal rules on road murder - Drawing of law n. 1678 - Directive transposing directives and concessions (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of law n. 112 - Disciplinary responsibility of the magistrates - Drawing of law n. 1259 - Delegate for the reform of the confids (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Documents defined by the Junta of parliamentary elections and immunities Wednesday 10 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 11 " ant. h. 9,30-14]] Amendments to draft law no. 112 (Disciplinary responsibility of judges) and 1259 (Delega per la riformazione dei confidi) will have to be presented by 1 p.m. on Thursday 4 June. Amendments to bill No 859 and related (criminal rules on road murder) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Friday 5 June. Amendments to draft law No 1678 (Delegate transposition of procurement and concessions directives) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Monday 8 June. Parliament will be convened in the afternoon of Thursday 11 June for the vote on the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court. [[Tuesday, June 16 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Possible follow-up of unconcluded arguments - Drawing of constitutional law n. 1289 and connected - Changes of the Statute of Friuli-Venezia Giulia in the matter of local authorities (First Resolution of the Senate) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of law n. 1568 and connected - Social Agriculture (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Motion n. 379, Di Biagio, on the protection of children's rights in the territories controlled by ISIS and Boko Haram - Motion n. 245, Romano, on insurance rates RC car Wednesday 17 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 18 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 18 June pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to Constitutional Law No 1289 and related (Modifications of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Statute in the field of local authorities) and to Law No 1568 and related (Social Agriculture) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Thursday 11 June. [[Tuesday, June 23 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Possible follow-up to the unconcluded - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 51, relaunch of the agricultural sector (Ove approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (It falls on 5 July) - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers on the European Council of 25 and 26 June 2015 (Wednesday 24) - Vote for the election of a member of the Board of President of the Court of Auditors (Vote by secret ballot by ballot by ballot) (Wednesday 24) Wednesday 24 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 25 " ant. h. 9,30-14 Thursday, June 25 pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law n.... (Decree-Law n. 51, relaunching the agricultural sector) will be set in relation to the timing of transmission by the Chamber of Deputies. Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 51, relaunching the agricultural sector) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, including: PD 1 h. 9' FI-PdL XVII 39' M5S 33' AP (NCD-UDC) 33' Mixed 32' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 26' GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI, IdV) 23' LN-Aut 23' CRi 23' Dissententi 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u13	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to speak on the timetable, apart from the fact that there is probably a need to reconvene - as you know, Mr President, has already been said at the Conference of the Leaders - in order to assess the inclusion of other subjects in the timetable. We, together with the 5 Star Movement, have, since many meetings of the Conference of Leaders, made the proposal to include finally in the timetable - also as we are preparing it practically throughout June - the discussion of measures on citizenship income and guaranteed minimum income. I would like to remind you that you, Mr President, had already undertaken at the other Conferences of the Heads of Group to urge the work of the Commission which is examining these measures in the referee and to speak with its President, so that they can finally be discussed in this House. Over the past few weeks, at least, it seemed that many members of the majority were willing to enter into the substance of a proposal that many citizens expected. You, Mr President, who are very attentive to these aspects, know that during this week there will be the mobilization of the Free Association, for the establishment of income of dignity, as Free has rightly called this measure. This would be a real response to the very serious situation that many people live in our country. I would like to remind you, for all of us, that, according to ISTAT data, there are about 9 million people living in a state of poverty or its proximity in our country and it would therefore be necessary for this House, and also the competent Commission, to finally give absolute priority to the examination of proposals with measures of a universalistic nature such as the one we are talking about. I would also like to point out that, together with Greece, we are the only European country that does not provide for such a measure. As President Renzi's communication to the European Council is due to be discussed again in the timetable, it is clear that we are debating a lot about Europe, but then we are not taking the real measures, the only ones on which we should concentrate in order to comply with what Europe is asking of us - but to which we are not obeying this time - and which should be a priority for all. Therefore, we do not want to go too far in demanding a timetable for next week's measures, but we propose that precisely in the week when the President-in-Office's communications are scheduled for the European Council - we are therefore talking about two weeks and there is therefore every possibility for the competent Commission to work - the discussion of the two proposals for legislation on citizenship income and guaranteed minimum income should be included.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u16	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, as the President of my Group has already requested at the Conference of Leaders, I would like to try to ask the House to vote in favour of the inclusion of motion 422 on the Davide Cervia case. I would like to explain very briefly what this is and what the purpose of the motion is. The Cervia case is the case of a disappearance, which occurred due to an alleged kidnapping or spontaneous disappearance - this is not yet known - in 1990. Since then the family has been subjected to a series of acts, in some cases misguided, abusive and other rather unpleasant situations, so much so that, for example, over the years, four different mathematical sheets, relating to Cervia itself, have been provided to the judicial authorities. At the end of this iter, which did not lead to the identification of either a culprit or of any kidnappers (so the whole process is still open, in the sense that in any case there are still no suspects or defendants), the family has filed a civil cause of compensation for the damage against the competent Ministries, or the Ministry of Defence - identified as the subject of the Arm of the Carabinieri, since some of its members have been protagonists of that trial - and the Navy, in reference to the supply of some documents. In this civil proceedings, shortly - on 11 June - it will come to the limitation of the right of the family to be compensated if necessary - since reunion with the family member is not possible by civil proceedings - or to be at least recognized by a judge the fact that in these years there have actually been cases which may result in compensation. It is therefore a civil case, but the objective is not the actual compensation, but to give a judge the power to assess whether the elements brought by the family can actually constitute a series of violations worthy of compensation. However, this is not, I repeat, an issue related to the actual compensation, but to the recognition of what has happened. This type of motion, therefore, would commit the Government to renounce to the limitation in civil court, in order to allow the parties to bring their own arguments and then to the judge to continue in the ascertainment of eventual cases worthy to procure compensation to the family. This is the area in which we move: therefore, being a fairly specific subject, we are faced with a commitment to the Government to give instructions to the State to give up the prescription, in accordance with Article 2937 of the Civil Code: this is the request I have. The motion, among other things, can also be resolved in a short time, with a brief debate: in my opinion, it can therefore be'set up' in the first useful sitting or in what the Presidency will think it wants to use, considering that the deadline expires on 11 June. The real renunciation of the prescription must take place immediately after the prescription has been fulfilled, so the times would all be there. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u19	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, at the Conference of the Leaders, everyone was prepared to include in the timetable the debate on motion 422, where it had been properly explained: I therefore renew the request to schedule it shortly. I would also ask - as Senator De Petris has already done - that we could add the discussion of the measure on citizenship income during the week from 22 to 26 June, in the belief that it is time to speed up the process of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u20	Senator Marton, to reply also to Senator De Petris, I would like to point out that I have completed the commitment I had made: I have also asked in writing the President of the Commission responsible for this measure, which could proceed more quickly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u23	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I am here to ask that our motion of no confidence in Mr Lorenzin be included as a matter of urgency in the agenda of this House. It is a few days ago the news that the World Health Organization has rejected Novartis' request to include Lucentis as one of the essential medicines for the treatment of maculopathy, as Avastin is already on that list, which costs forty times less. We were the first to denounce this alleged cartel between the two pharmaceutical companies, with a question in May 2013, to which Minister Lorenzin never responded. We have also tabled other questions, to which he has replied in a confused and smoky way, showing that he does not know the story (if we want to think well), or that he does not want to solve it for the sake of not knowing who (to want to think badly). When the Antitrust imposed a fine on Novartis and Roche, the Minister, instead of healing the situation, issued a measure that provided for and provides for the use of the least expensive drug for the National Health Service only in the specialised public facilities or in those affiliated, effectively eliminating all the private outpatient part or facilities without specialized laboratories. This measure has not healed the situation at all, because it has made sure that the least expensive drug is not yet available and that therefore there are still sick of this serious disease that cannot be cured, given the long waiting lists within the public service. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We in June 2014, almost a year ago, filed a motion of no confidence against the Minister, because a minister able to hold a Dicastery like that, a competent minister, should have permanently healed the issue, even in the light of what the WHO said. Today we are again faced with a World Health Organization which refuses to place Lucentis on the market precisely because Avastin already exists. That motion of confidence, which was requested more than a year ago, was never scheduled because this House never wanted to assume the responsibility of making a courageous gesture by removing an incompetent minister from such an important Dicastery. [[Applause from Senators Bulgarelli and Bottici.]] I am here, then, after almost a year, once again asking once again for this House to make a gesture of courage, beyond the political logics that prevail in this House and which subjugate logics of maintaining political balances (so as not to drop what would have had to fall for a while) [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Bignami and Vacciano]] , and schedule the discussion of this motion of no confidence because citizens cannot wait for the perverse logics that dictate the agenda of this House. Citizens need to be treated! We need to live in a country that guarantees all citizens the right to health and to be treated at a lower cost to our national health system. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Vacciano, Bignami and De Pietro senators.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u26	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, in joining my group's request that the draft law on citizenship income be debated as soon as possible, as well as your own commitments, I am asking you to integrate the timetable with the inclusion of a motion of no confidence in Mr Alfano that we have tabled. Mr President, precisely, the 5 Star Movement Group tabled a motion of no confidence in July 2013, a motion of no confidence in November 2014 and a motion of no confidence in May 2015. The facts, due to the non-ability of Minister Alfano to play a role of fundamental importance such as that of Minister of the Interior, are obvious and all and we have them before our eyes. I therefore believe that it is our right to request the immediate timing of this motion of no confidence. By the way, Mr President, several times you have said that this branch of Parliament must commit itself and work every day of the week. I have to tell you that it is practically doing so or almost: practically the Senate Chamber begins its work on Tuesday afternoon to finish Thursday at lunchtime; so much so that today, which is Thursday, as you can see, the senators already have the trolleys ready to escape in the afternoon. I would ask you to give us an example and a clear signal at last. This must also happen on your part: let us schedule the debate on the motion of no confidence which we have often requested on a Friday morning, perhaps even soon, so as to free our fellow senators and enable them to fulfil their commitments. It could be done tomorrow, Friday morning, at 7:00. It is not a provocation, Mr President: so many Italians start working at 7 or 8 a.m. I would ask you not to waste time using the precious time devoted to the work of the House or the Commissions, but to use an empty day like tomorrow morning at 7 a.m. or 8 a.m. to finally discuss the motion of distrust against Mr Alfano. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u29	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I believe that at this point the debate needs to be extended to all the motions of mistrust that have been presented to the Ministers of this Government over time. It is certainly true that there is a motion of mistrust against Minister Giannini, as against the Minister of the Interior, rather than - as we have just learned - the Minister of Health. The question arises as to whether the government still has the confidence of Parliament, since the confidence of the citizens seems to be quite lost. Let us discuss and vote on all the motions of mistrust presented to individual ministers. They are included in the timetable and it is possible to check whether their work is still consistent with the guidelines expressed by Parliament. I object, compared to what Mr Santangelo has just proposed regarding the timetable, that at the time indicated it would certainly be difficult to have not the Senate Chamber full but the benches of the government full.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u32	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, in agreeing with the timetable presented, I would like to point out to the House that it is legitimate to request the inclusion of additional items on the agenda but, at a time when we are asking, for example, to discuss the motion of mistrust against Mr Lorenzin, we cannot make a requirement or a trial, nor can we condemn it. In fact, our work is followed by hundreds of thousands of people and then we cannot enter into the matter, make accusations so heavy and unmotivated, without then there is the time and the way to respond on the merits of the accusations made by the colleague of the 5 Star Movement against a Minister, in a forum where we should only propose the topics to be included in the schedule of work. When these issues are on the agenda of this House, we will discuss them, but I reject this swindling method which allows us to make a requirement and muddle a minister. [[Comments from the M5S Group. Applause from Senator Torrisi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u33	Senator Giovanardi, please put forward your proposal to change the calendar, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u36	BONFRISCO (CRI). Mr President, this morning I participated for the first time as Chairman of a Group at the Conference of Leaders, in which our Group carefully assessed its proposals. I therefore propose that the President-in-Office of the Council's communication at the European Council include a proposal for a resolution of this Senate on certain economic issues of particular importance, i.e. employment in relation to the major business and sector crises and the issues related to certain economic categories particularly exposed to the crisis. This would be the completion of a timetable which we believe to be sufficiently demanding and important, but in which we believe it may be useful to include the discussion of a motion for a resolution of this kind in the President's communication. [[Applause from Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u37	Senator Bonfrisco, when the motion for a resolution is tabled, we will assess its inclusion in the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u40	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I wanted to make a simple proposal for a matter of justice: let us make a "trust day," that is, a day when we discuss all the issues of mistrust presented to the ministers, so we all agree. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Buemi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u41	Senator Bignami, the same proposal seems to me to have been made by Senator Candiani.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u44	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I agree with the requests made by my Group both for the debate on the measure on citizenship income, which I consider to be very fundamental and on which, among other things, work is about to be completed, and for the motion of mistrust against Mr Alfano. It is clear, in fact, that Triton has failed, because the number of victims of this situation has increased rather than decreased, so it is absolutely urgent to discuss the motion of no confidence. I also agree with the request, stressing that we could also lengthen the time of the plenary session, to schedule the discussion of the motion of no confidence against Minister Giannini: in fact, we are continuing to work on a draft law relating to the school on which criticalities are detected from all sides and whose approach is not shared. Mistakes have already been made on the competition for medical residents: let's clarify the issue once and for all before moving forward with a bill that nobody likes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u45	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments to the timetable. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings, tabled by Senators De Petris and Marton, to include the examination of the draft law on guaranteed minimum income and citizenship income. It's not approved. I still have the counterproof. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, tabled by Senator Crimi, to include the examination of motion No 422 on the Cervia case. It's not approved. I still have the counterproof. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, tabled by Senator Montevecchi, to include the examination of the motion of no confidence against Minister Lorenzin. It's not approved. I still have the counterproof. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, made by Senator Santangelo, to include the examination of the motion of no confidence against Minister Alfano. It's not approved. I still have the counterproof. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable of the Assembly's proceedings, put forward by Senators Candiani and Blundo, to include the examination of the motion of distrust against Minister Giannini. It's not approved. I still have the counterproof. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u46	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 667 and 1421. I would remind you that at yesterday's afternoon sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report and the general debate took place. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u47	Mr President, I do not think we need a particular reply. In yesterday's speeches, the political groups clarified their positions and clearly emerged two clearly opposed fronts: on the one hand, those who are in favour of the text dismissed by the Commission, which amends the current text of Article 278 of the Criminal Code, reducing the penalties substantially, reducing them to a financial or prison sentence in the most serious cases of attribution of a particular fact; on the other hand, the political groups, like the one to which I belong, who support the need for a repeal of the crime in question. For my part, there is nothing to add, because I think the debate has been very simple and clear for everyone. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u48	Mr President, I have followed the debate and for the Government the text which the Commission has dismissed takes account of a number of considerations, so it is an important balance: on the one hand, the least serious incidents are punished no longer by imprisonment, but by monetary penalty; on the other, for the most serious facts, therefore, when the offence concerns a certain fact, the penalty of imprisonment is provided, albeit more mitigated. On the one hand, the system is maintained, and therefore the protection of the honour and prestige of the institutions, while on the other hand the possibility of leaving to everyone the right of criticism, even harsh and hard; but at the time when the prestige of the President of the Republic is passed on, the penalty is graduated depending on the type of offense. According to the Government, it is a balanced text, so we will vote against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u49	We now come to the examination of draft law No 667, which consists of only Article 1, in the text proposed by the Commission, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u50	Mr President, in view of the particularly small number of amendments and the clear direction that emerged in the debate, to which I referred in my previous speech, the rapporteur considers it appropriate to leave to the House and to each political group the full freedom of determination in relation to the acceptance of all the amendments, especially those which have a particularly strong scope and which would propose the new text of Article 278, as provided for in the original drafts of law, at the first signature of Senator Ciampollo and Senator Gasparri. I therefore consider it appropriate, as I myself subscribe to one of these draft laws, to put myself back to the House in the evaluation of the vote on each amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u51	Mr President, I would like to call for the withdrawal of the amendments before expressing an opinion against these proposals, because - I repeat - very careful and effective work has been done in the Commission and an important balance has been achieved which really takes account of many factors and also of the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. I therefore insist on the call for withdrawal and only in the alternative, precisely because of the considerations I have tried to make, I am against it. I think, however, that in this case a call for withdrawal is the best way to go, precisely because of the work that has been done by the Commission and by all the political forces present there, and therefore by both the majority and the opposition. In addition, the Government has also sought, in expressing its views in the Commission, to take account of all needs.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u52	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u55	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, Amendment No 1,100 aims to reproduce the original text of Law No 667, in the sense of proposing the repeal of Article 278 of the Criminal Code in the matter of offense to the honour and prestige of the President of the Republic. This provision, which appears for the first time in the Code Rocco of 1930, is now too restrictive of freedom of expression of thought, as referred to in Article 21 of the Constitution. This is also due to the fact that, on the basis of established case law, the criminal hypothesis stated by the aforementioned Article 278 of the Criminal Code does not require, for the integration of the case, the cowardice, but merely provides for the offense to the honour and prestige of the Head of State. The current wording of Article 278, therefore, represents the legacy of an order system designed to contain, restrict, the expression of free opinion, particularly of a political nature, appearing in substantial violation of the basic principles of a democratic order. Our Constitutional Charter, repudiating the authoritarian state, has made incompatible the norms of criminal law of a markedly fascist nature and then, in the wake of a legislative evolution that tends to progressively abandon the use of preventive-depressant instruments aimed at suppressing the free manifestation of thought and the right to criticism also political, the only reasonable way can be that of repealing Article 278 of the penal code. For the reasons set out above, we consider the text so reworded and now put to the attention of this House insufficient. The considerable effort to meet the initiative of the 5 Star Movement does not entirely solve the problem, leaving open - albeit in a weakened form - the possibility of abuses and unjustified limitations of the constitutional rights of reference in the matter of free expression of the thought of citizens, especially with regard to power and politics. We therefore call for everyone's support for the amendment that is being voted on. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u58	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u59	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,100, tabled by Senator Ciampolillo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,101, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators, identical to Amendment 1,102, tabled by Senator Mussini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,103, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,104.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u62	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, I would like to announce the withdrawal of Amendments Nos 1,104 and 1,106 at my first signature. In the final explanation of vote, I will explain why the Democratic Party agrees with the text voted by all the groups in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u63	I call on Senator Gasparri to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1,105. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,106 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.100, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators, identical to amendment 1.0.101, tabled by Senator Mussini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u66	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a measure on which we could have had a little more courage. The original version of the bill actually provided for the total repeal of the crime, which, remember, was indeed provided for in the code Rocco but - to the face of those who consider it simply a legacy of a fascist nature - also in the code Zanardelli. This is a crime aimed at punishing the conduct of those who offend the reputation of the President of the Republic. Well, we wonder: perhaps the respect of the institutions must go through the prediction of a crime? Is it still necessary today to provide for such sanctions, such as imprisonment, even if the President of the Republic is simply offended? We wonder if in fact this crime does not yet hide a crime of opinion and if we do not want to in this way simply limit the free expression of thought. Times have definitely changed from the early twentieth century to today: culture has changed, social life has changed a lot; expressions have changed by far. With this we do not mean that we must not bring the necessary and due respect to all the institutions that represent our country. We believe, however, that the forecast of this crime, even after the examination in the Commission, which in some respects intended to modify it, but without reaching the total repeal of the crime, is still open to doubts in our view. If we consider that the attribution of a given fact may also involve imprisonment for up to two years, then we wonder what can be considered the legislative scope of the offense since, examining the various jurisprudenceal decisions that have taken place on the subject, to consider unworthy a President of the Republic is highly offensive when, in a case of injustice, probably the term "unworthy" is not even considered offensive. We ask ourselves, then, other questions, which derive rather from doubts. For example, if we expect high criminal sanctions, it is easy that that crime is not even contested; whereas, by providing for reduced criminal sanctions, perhaps there would be a greater enforcement of that crime. These are probably not words that you would like to hear in this House, but they take account of what is unfortunately happening. In our view, this House had the opportunity to carry out a courageous operation, i.e. to repeal a crime which we consider anachronistic. We in the North League say that, at the moment - I stress this - unlike other political groups, we do not even have the political interest in the fact that this crime is being repealed. Years ago, we also had court trails on the flag's cowardice and beyond. (at 10.50 a.m.) (Following STEFANI). At present there are other open procedures and probably some other political group has interests and expresses a vote intended to affect the ongoing proceedings. We still strongly believe - and as a Group of the North League we have always expressed this opinion, this opinion on the law Reale-Mancino, which has led to discrasies and decisions absolutely abnormal for all these cases of crime - that in a country where there is the freedom to express one's opinions one must cross profoundly reformatory passages. We must have the opportunity to freely express our thoughts, which must never lead to transcendence, to offense or unfriendly terminologies. Sometimes, however, only through a strong expression can one make one understand the nature of a thought. Therefore, as a Group of the North Legacy, in relation to this measure we announce our unfavourable vote because, although the Commission's work has been decidedly intended to change the legislative scope of the current crime, an opportunity has not been taken. We therefore insist that we vote against. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u69	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). Mr President, I rise to declare my Group's vote in favour, because even if little is better than nothing: this is the first bill in which penalties are finally reduced. Of course, the debate in the Commission has been wide-ranging and structured. With President Palma and the rapporteur we have done a serious job and I think it was right for the rapporteur to put himself back to the House on the amendments because we had reached an important balance here, on a crime that dates back to the beginning of the twentieth century. The balance reached, in fact, has led us to say that it is not possible for someone to get up in the morning and begin to offend the reputation or goodness of the President of the Republic. The behavior of the good father of the family, of an educated person, must be such as not to offend anyone, not even, dear colleague Stefani, with strong expressions. Strong expressions can and must be educated, though strong, and must not be offensive. I therefore believe that the balance found in the Commission represents the meeting point of a widespread feeling in the country. Therefore, those who represent the unity of Italy, the Italian flag, must always be able to do it with their heads high and without there being anyone to bring it up with insults and insults. I very much appreciated Senator Lumia (perhaps for the first time and perhaps I am getting old), because he withdrew his two judicialist amendments, since he longs for the increase in penalties, even if only financial, from 20,000 to 30,000 euros; even in terms of years to be served, from two to three: he seems to have fun. This time, however, he was able to withdraw two amendments and this makes it possible to see some light on the horizon: it is not just storm. Mr President, we believe that an offence of opinion against the President of the Republic can never be considered, whoever the magistrate is, because if an opinion is expressed, it would be a crime, an abuse of the magistrate. On the contrary, if, instead of an opinion, it is an offense, a fair and good slander, and, among other things, free of charge, it is right that the President of the Republic, especially as a representative of Italian unity, should also be defended. Mr President, we firmly believe, as Mr Ferri said, that he made a proposal on behalf of the Government that I agree with, that we should withdraw all the amendments because we had worked well in the Commission and carried out a good text, which I believe is shared. Above all, it is certain that it is shared by the sovereign people.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u72	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we will not vote in favour of the text because we consider it to be a downward compromise which does not respond to the need we have also called for in our amendments, namely to repeal Article 278 of the penal code. Of course, as we well know, there are still in our criminal system, and often punished with particularly serious penalties, crimes introduced in the fascist period, clearly aimed at the repression of those who opposed the dictatorial state and who, in our opinion, no longer reconcile with constitutional norms and, in particular, with Article 21 of the Constitution. This, in our view, shows a blatant contradiction in our legal system: on the one hand, freedom of thought, opinion, expression and manifestation is recognised and protected at the constitutional level, and, on the other hand, crimes that punish this manifestation of freedom survive in the criminal code. It is the legacy of a regulatory system designed to limit in the most drastic way any expression of dissent, especially of a political character; these norms, moreover, have always been a function of ideological control, in violation of the basic principles of a democratic order. This also applies to the crime of cowardice to the Head of State we are dealing with. The text entered into the Committee on Justice provided for the repeal of Article 278 of the Criminal Code and, instead, we find ourselves in the Chamber with a text that does not suppress the crime, but punishes it with a fine and a forecast of the prison up to two years if the offence consists in the attribution of a definite fact. With regard to the crime of cowardice, let us remember that no article contained in Title II of the Second Part of the Constitution, that relating to the role and functions of the President of the Republic, provides that the office needs special protection in relation to its symbolic prestige and its ordinamental function. The Italian penal code dates back to 1930; it is a product of the fascist era, in particular in the matter of freedom, thought and speech and has long borne its signs. The cowardice falls within the order of questions relating to freedom of opinion and expression, verbal and written, which cannot be restricted and of which a different degree of punishableness can not be assumed in relation to the degree of prestige of the personality towards which the opinion of contempt is addressed. In 2006, with the reform of the crimes of opinion, the penalties for most of the crimes of cowardice were replaced by financial penalties. This was not the case with Article 278 of the Criminal Code, which protects the honour and prestige of the President of the Republic. It should also be remembered that the crimes of opinion and the battles against them and against the code Rocco have occupied in Italy much of the modernity post-fascist regime, accompanying the long season characterized by the democratic drive of an important part of the country to narrow the gap between the formal Constitution and the material constitution of the structures and the functioning of the apparatuses and bodies of the State. This battle has been reflected in several continuous pronouncements by courts and the Constitutional Court. There is still another question, in our view. The crux of the issue, beyond the constitutional clarity of the article on freedom of thought, opinion and expression, is above all to be found in the conception of the State and in the relationship between the State and citizens. The background of all the matter of vilipendio refers in fact to an authoritarian idea of the State, to a sovereignty supplanted by an abstract body and institutions embodied in hypostatized personalities in that abstraction, to a sovereignty, that is, that exceeds what the Constitution attributes to the people, who obviously exercises it through representation and the legislator (and there is, in our opinion, no other). We find ourselves debating a text that not only keeps the crime of cowardice and punishes it administratively, but that, if the offence consists in the attribution of a definite fact, it also keeps the imprisonment up to two years. In our view, therefore, a legislative evolution has not been taken into account - as is also stressed by the signatories of the legislative proposal - which tends to phase out the use of preventive-repressive instruments aimed at suppressing the free manifestation of thought and the right to criticism, including political criticism. So the only reasonable way is to repeal Article 278 of the Criminal Code. Maintaining the forecast of prison for a crime such as cowardice is the most short-sighted one can imagine, not only because the conditions of Italian prisons - as we well know - are completely unacceptable, and therefore not even the minimum respect for the dignity of people is guaranteed, but above all because the prison system is anything but suitable to respond to the need for the re-education of the condemned and that of the protection of the community. Therefore, in our opinion - I am speaking for the Mixed Group, as well as for the Left Ecology and Freedom - prison cannot be the state's response to all types of crime and the use of prison sentences must be that extrema ratio reserved to crimes that create greater social alarm or to conduct that creates real and concrete damages to the community and individuals, but certainly not to crimes of opinion. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u75	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, in fact, in the debate in the Commission, we had started from more general reflections on the crimes of cowardice. Initially, for example, mine was a position that drew a parallel with the fact of having basically decriminalized the blasphemy, which is also an offense to the divinity, for those who believe it (just see how it is treated in some religions who offends the divinity), but which today, however, in our penal code is simply sanctioned with a fine. Conversely, in order to defend the honor of the Head of State, a prison sentence (as it was already before) is reached with some colleagues and citizens who have really risked or have historically suffered the prison for having perhaps ironized the Head of State. I must say that I am somewhat impressed by this difference in treatment between the blasphemy towards the divinity, sanctioned simply by a fine, and the offense brought to a man or woman (even if she holds an important position such as that of the Head of State), sanctioned in prison. Deepening my reflection on some cases and historical events, I am reminded, on the other hand, of the unworthy defamatory campaign that was carried out against President Leone, with devastating consequences on the political balance of the country. President Leone was forced to resign on the basis of a series of slanderous and defamatory statements made against him, which proved to be totally unfounded. When the sentences arrived, it was too late to repair the damage that may result not so much from a general offense, but - as we have written - from the attribution of determined facts to the Head of State, perhaps of a defamatory and slanderous type, which may, if repeated, actually affect not only the task of those who represent national unity, but also weaken it to the point of creating very important political repercussions. In fact, having left the sentence for up to two years does not mean that someone can go to prison - because a sentence of up to two years, rightly, does not involve the fact of being incarcerated - but emphasizes in an important way that it is not possible to get away only with a fine, if they attribute decisive facts to the Head of State and if maybe these accusations are repeated by those who can not care for the fine, because it has financial availability and can therefore continue a campaign of type defamatory. Although I understand that this is a difficult balance to achieve, I do believe that, after working in the Commission, there has been substantial progress in this House. With this new text we are taking a step forward, because certain behaviours are being struck, but preventing the scandal of seeing people go to prison simply for expressing an opinion that may be unpleasing or irrational towards the Head of State, as we risked happening with the previous text of the norm. Finally, I would like to add in this connection that the Head of State, in the constitutional interpretation of recent times, with his statements and his behaviour, has also taken on such a significant political impact that it is difficult to think that, in the face of his initiatives which have a profound impact on the merits of political life, there is no possibility for Members or citizens to criticize his conduct. It happens in the United States, where the President, directly elected by the people, is very powerful, but he may well be criticized, because he is part of the political game. Here, in recent years, this strange situation has been created for which the President of the Republic, who is the Head of State, plays a decisive and incisive political role, but, when someone criticizes him, he is no longer the Head of State or the President of the Republic that affects political life, but becomes super partes and therefore a personality free from criticism, like the Queen of England. With this text, however, I think we have found a balance: let us also make criticism possible, provided that of course it does not go beyond common sense and move on to the offense, preventing embarrassing situations such as those that have occurred in the case of some of our colleagues - I remember Mr Storace, for example - from happening again in the future. In the light of these considerations, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote in favour of the text proposed by the Commission. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u78	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, the Five Star Movement, with the bill at my first signature, raised the question of the revision of Article 278 of the penal code. Our position, as is well known, was to propose the total repeal of this rule, for reasons which deserve to be mentioned here. This provision, particularly in the present era of computer communications and the development of the Internet, appears in fact to be excessively restrictive of freedom of expression of thought, as referred to in Article 21 of the Constitution. This is also due to the fact that, on the basis of established case law, the criminal hypothesis stated by the aforementioned Article 278 does not require for the integration of the case the vilipendium, but merely provides for the offense to the honour and prestige of the Head of State. 11:10 a.m. (Follow CIAMPOLILLO). In other words, for the existence of the crime provided for in Article 278, it is not required a dole characterized by specific purposes, but the mere will to carry out the offensive action is sufficient, with the awareness of causing insult to the person invested in the office of Head of State. The current wording of Article 278 of the Criminal Code is therefore the legacy of an order system designed to contain, restrict, the expression of free opinion, particularly of a political nature, appearing in substantial violation of the basic principles of a democratic order. Our Constitutional Charter, repudiating the authoritarian state, has made the rules of criminal law of a markedly fascist nature incompatible. In the wake of a legislative evolution that tends to progressively abandon the use of preventive-repressive instruments aimed at suppressing the free manifestation of thought and the right to criticism also political, the only reasonable way can be that of repealing Article 278 of the penal code. In our constitutional system, freedom of expression cannot in any way be restricted or abolished. It remains firm that the common criminal law ensures, however, to any citizen, suitable instruments of protection in case he considers his honour offended or considers that he is a victim of insult. It should also be noted that, pursuant to Article 313 of the Criminal Code - linked to Article 278 of the same Code - for the offence concerning the honour or prestige of the President of the Republic cannot proceed without the authorisation of the Minister of Justice, based on a judgment of opportunity which implies the evaluation of any element of the fact also in relation to the personality of his author (Case, 1958). This procedural phase characterizes even more politically the crime referred to in Article 278, in which the executive authority has the power to authorize the judicial authority which considers to be pursuing the criminal proceedings in this respect. The timing therefore appears ripe for a decisive rethinking and overcoming of the approach, which characterizes Article 278 in force. Moreover, when Giorgio Napolitano was still President of the Republic, he had the opportunity to affirm and reaffirm how it was for those who have the power of legislative initiative to propose the repeal of this provision of the penal code, reaffirming Parliament's sovereignty in this matter. However, the debate promoted by the 5 Star Movement has led to the current text amending Article 278 of the Criminal Code, in the sense of a significant mitigation of its sanctioning regime. Therefore, we feel that we can vote in favour of this draft law by accepting the majority's wish to join our initiative, even with the above comments. All this also considering that the present is the first legislative initiative of the 5 Star Movement that receives the approval of this branch of Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u81	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, finally comes to the House for the decision on the issue of cowardice. I had put the issue first, with my own legislative initiative of April 2014 and I also claim this temporal primacy, because the issue whether it is necessary or not to maintain legislation such as this, on the crime of cowardice to protect the Head of State - given that in the legal system there are however ordinary rules, punishing slander and defamation - is a topic that has been debated for a long time, was latent and has taken on a renewed relevance when, in recent years, a process has begun that has concerned Mr Francesco Storace. The cowardice can be pursued through particular and complex procedures, with the permission of the Minister of Justice Guardasigilli, and, in the case just mentioned, the initiation of judicial proceedings has occurred. Personally, even if not alone - because I see that the consensus of this House on this issue is broad - I have gained the conviction that action should be taken on this legislation, eliminating the crime and the possibility of prison. I remember, beyond this fact that is still current - I think the first degree of the Storace trial has been carried out and, probably, there will be further degrees of judgment - a historical case, which took place long ago, which concerned Guareschi and also other cases in which the crimes of opinion have led to prison sentences. We still have to solve this, but it is another matter, the problem of journalists. We discussed libel in the press and, therefore, the need to sanction, with measures of an economic and other nature and not with prison, that kind of crime. We are now waiting for a determination in the House, after the Senate, with a hard time, with a debate that has gone through several legislatures, has turned, even in that case, towards the abolition of the prison sanction. My bill provided for the abolition of Article 278 of the Criminal Code tout court. I remain of this opinion and, for this reason, I maintained the amendment amending the text brought to the attention of the House. I believe that the abolition of Article 278 remains the best option. I repeat that this does not mean being able to offend freely. There is no freedom of cowardice, because there is, however, a sanction that can be granted on the basis of other principles. Yesterday the rapporteur, Mr Buccarella, also recalled that there is a further rule that protects the freedom of the President of the Republic and, therefore, beyond the aspects of defamation and whatever else, our legal system provides for other rules in this area. It is far from my intention, therefore, to promote a free activity of desecration and insult. I thought, however, that this specific legislation was out of date. In the course of the debate in the Commission, then, a sort of compromise was reached, because the text we are about to vote excludes prison for the crime of cowardice which, as such, disappears, but maintains a stricter sanction, even theoretically of a prison nature, which provides for imprisonment up to two years, when a specific fact is attributed to the Head of State, that is, when it is said that he has committed a certain fact. I understand this caution and I believe that the vote of the Forza Italia Group will still be in favour of the text, which is a weighted average between our position of abolition tout court of the rule contained in Article 278 and the fact that, even personally, I have insisted particularly on the timing of this measure at numerous conferences of the Leaders, discussing it with colleagues of the other Groups and also with the Presidency. And, therefore, having finally obtained the opportunity to discuss this measure in this House, I am moved to accept the text as it has been presented. Undersecretary Ferri also called for my amendment to be withdrawn, but I wanted to maintain it. It was not approved by the House, but in this way I wanted to maintain the original spirit of the proposal. I believe, however, that the assessment of the decisive role of my legislative initiative and the constant call for timetables in this House can, in any case, lead to a favourable opinion on a result which is a bit of a compromise. Frankly, such a compromise could also be avoided. Sometimes, in fact, the debate on this subject has appeared to me almost conditioned by specific facts or references to people, while, as is said in the film headlines, any reference to existing facts and people should be excluded. I too have mentioned the story that Mr Storace has brought about, but we are doing the law in absolute terms, regardless of the news, even if it sometimes leads to decisions. I mentioned first the case of journalists, who I hope will find a final outcome in the House and become law. We have often discussed this matter, and I remember the case of the current director of Panorama, Mulé, or the story of the director of the "Il Giornale" Sallusti, who even brought the then Head of State, today President emeritus of the Republic and Senator for life Napolitano, to the granting of grace to him. We believe that for certain cases, when we are faced with a crime of opinion, the crime of imprisonment must be excluded from the rules, whether it concerns the case of journalists or the case of cowardice. In the case mentioned, in fact, the fact that one has intervened with grace is the merit of whom grace has granted. This, however, brings everything - yes - to a personal relationship within the institutions, to an assessment that is often conditioned by political factors. And if the crime of cowardice is old-fashioned, even grace, which is an even older and old-fashioned institution, never used even when it would have been appropriate, is. Announcement, therefore, that the vote of the FI-PdL Group XVIILegislature will be in favour of this text. More and better could be done, but we still claim the credit for bringing this decision to the House. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u84	LUMIA (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party Group is voting for the amendment of Article 278 of the Criminal Code in the matter of offense to the honour and prestige of the President of the Republic. The Democratic Party Group has proposed a solution: a balance solution, which has been adopted within the Commission by all the Groups. We believe that Article 278 should remain in our code, and there are good reasons for it to remain, of course radically changing its structure. I think that with this result we can achieve, as I think is happening, a solution that is widely shared. 11:22 a.m. (Lumy followed). Colleagues, our jurisprudence has examined Article 278 of the Criminal Code several times and has considered it to be consistent with our Constitution several times. And this is also because, dear colleges, freedom of opinion, of criticism, of expression in all forms in which citizens, political forces and information wanted to express themselves, is protected. Imagine the satire! Of course, we must distinguish freedom of opinion in all its forms from personal offense, from indulgence, from the possibility of questioning the honour and personality of the President of the Republic. Colleagues, we know that in this twenty years the function of equilibrium, the function of representation of the President of the Republic, of third-party has evolved: a dynamic evolution, active able to collect the very evolution of Italian society and politics. We are about to discuss reforms that will strengthen the Commission, so that modern developments in active third-party activity will undergo further restructuring, strengthening these features. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we must accept and vote on the solution we have identified. It's not a privilege. Absolutely not. This protection, among other things, is not activated directly by the President. It is a function that is activated by the prosecutors and authorized by the Minister of Justice and we know that in the discussions that took place in our country there has rarely been an opportunity to affect with criminal rules in this regard. By the way, we structurally change the nature of the crime. We move from the prison sentence to the financial penalty, from the fine of 5,000 to that of 20,000 euros and, in cases of detention of the sanction, we have a reduction from 5 to 2 years; the minimum one year to 15 days. And the scope of the imprisonment is limited only to cases where the offence to the Head of State consists in the attribution of a given fact. That is why the structural change that has been made puts us in a position to take a step forward without eliminating this kind of crime. Ladies and gentlemen, you have seen that in the French experience, where the President of the Republic really has a direct function of political direction and political government, in the face of an aggression that France has suffered, the people have hung around its President, even when he was in minimum conditions of electoral consensus. And the great demonstration held in Paris was emblematic of the great capacity for unification and representation exercised by this figure. I think that in our country, faced with a position that does not have that character of direct participation in the direction of political life, but of active and dynamic third-partyness, this element of protection must be maintained. That is why we shall vote, ladies and gentlemen, in favour of this solution and the solution found in the Commission. And we are also pleased that we are preparing to vote for it in the majority together with the opposition.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u87	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u88	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 667, composed of only Article 1, with the following title: Amendment to Article 278 of the Criminal Code, in the matter of offense to the honour or prestige of the President of the Republic. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The draft law No 1421 is therefore absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-459.ana.u89	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 11.28 a.m.
