ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u4	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u8	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, I must inform the whole House that Senator Milo has arrived this morning and has entered his card and the card of Senator Falanga by voting for both. This is a shameful thing and must be sanctioned immediately. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is a scam, ma'am. Senator Milo also voted for Senator Falanga. [[Comments from the LAG Group (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI).]] I would ask you to take action. The Presidency must take action because it is an unprecedented matter of gravity. Have Senator Falanga's file removed politely.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u9	I have the immediate withdrawal of Senator Falanga's card that is not in the present state.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u10	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u11	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u12	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1385, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of a bill of popular initiative and the draft own-initiative law of the Cirielli deputies; Pisicchio; Bersani and others; Francesco Saverio Romano; Best and others; Lenzi; Zampa and Marzano; Zampa and Ghizzoni; Martella; Francesco Sanna; Bobba and others; Giachetti and others; Giorgia Meloni and others; Rigoni and others; Rigoni and others; Nicoletti and others; Martella and others; Vargiu; Burtone and others; Balduzzi and others; Laffranco and others; Vargiu; Toninelli and others; Door and others; Zaccagnini and others; Valiante and others; Lauricella; Michele Bordo; Marco Meloni and others; Di Battista and others, and 1449.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u13	Mr President, I apologise for the tone of voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u14	My colleagues may contribute with a little silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u15	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). I don't demand that much, ma'am. Colleagues, we have almost reached the conclusion of a long debate, which has certainly enriched in all of us the awareness of the critical points of a reform, whose installation, however, in my opinion, represents an acceptable balance between the fundamental objectives that an electoral system must guarantee, that is, the balance between a reasonable level of representativeness of political forces and the primary need for the stability of majorities and, consequently, the governability of the country. [[Brusio.]] President, I can't speak out loud. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, unfortunately the senator had a drop in voice. Anyone who is not interested can go out and let the colleague speak. LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Absolutely. I said, the primary requirement of majority stability and consequently of country governance according to principles of coherence, efficiency and timeliness; requirements which, if not met, as not met or only very partially met have been in the last fifteen years, delegitimanate democratic institutions, which to citizens no longer appear able to give adequate answers and solutions to the complexity of the social and economic phenomena of our age. In my opinion, it is precisely in this inadequacy that lies the true origin of the delegitimization of the institutions, of their distance from the citizens, of the decline of participation in political life. But it is also clear, on the other hand, that the need for a broad representativeness is now made more stringent by the transition to a system of differentiated bicameralism, in which the Chamber alone will be entrusted with functions of political direction and guarantee. This problem will have to be dealt with not only by the electoral law, but above all by constitutional reform, as we have also had occasion to point out during the debate here in the Senate. For this very reason, we hope that the text which will be dismissed by the House will correct in some key points the text already approved by this branch of Parliament, of which we have already pointed out the problematic nature: for example, the quorums for the election of guarantee institutions, starting with that of the Head of State. If we do not want to meet yet another disillusionment, promising salvific reforms that then, in the test of the facts, prove not productive of the expected effects; if we do not want to determine in the public opinion a sort of sceptical disenchanted with regard to the reforms (we think only of the wonders announced by the federalist reform or the recurring epochal reforms of the public administration); if we want to avoid this boomerang effect, it is necessary to have clear that it will be necessary, in a coherent way, to complete the new form of government that will come from the ballot between the leaders, that this reform introduces. A ballot that will in fact involve a sort of direct election of the Premier (model mayors, to understand us), without however having the system of weights and counterweights that this new model would require. The risk, in the absence of adequate intervention on the form of government, is of an almost impossible coexistence between a form of parliamentary government and a semi-presidency, and can only be the seat of the Constitution to overcome this improbable dualism. It will also be necessary to act immediately on the Rules of Procedure of the House, in order to avoid that, as my colleague Mr Sposetti rightly fears, the lists in question are in fact the disguised coalitions that are broken up immediately after the elections, reproducing fragmentation and powers of ban; although no rule will of course fail - I say luckily - the dialectic even strong within the same party. Having said that, I would like to focus on some of the objections raised during the debate and then on some of the points which I still feel are not properly resolved. First of all, the hastyness that the majority have put into the debate has been mentioned several times. It is, however, in my opinion, paradoxical that this is the case in the days when President Napolitano decides to interrupt his second term of office, with great sacrifice and a sense of responsibility, in the name of the commitment of the majority of political forces to proceed quickly to the approval of constitutional and electoral reforms. It is a path that, after the first acceleration impressed precisely by President Napolitano with the commission of the essays, then unnecessarily resumed by the Government Letta, has again been bogged down in the rain of the bans, moved more by party interests or even personal than by an alternative vision of a new institutional model capable of modernising the Republic, of making the choice of citizens more transparent or of bringing them closer to the institutions. Until this action of paralysing ban was interrupted by the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which indicated the key points on which to intervene in order to make the law in force in conformity with the Constitution and give a compass to the legislator in defining the structure of the reform. I think it would be an act of concrete homage and recognition to the commitment made by President Napolitano, finally approve in tight time the electoral reform to the Senate and the constitutional reform to the House. I believe that Parliament owes it to it. Otherwise, I have the impression that all the words that have been spoken these days are in danger of appearing to be really empty expressions of circumstance. I also share the view of many opposition colleagues that institutional reforms are not a priority in the face of the emergence of economic crises. The opposite is true: as shown by a very large bibliography and the OECD's purchased data, the proper functioning of the institutions is an indispensable prerequisite for promoting growth and investment. The Court's ruling has certainly served to put the process back in motion, but in the course of the debate it was, in my opinion, improperly drawn up by all parties, while it limits, as Mr Maran has well pointed out, the constitutionally relevant aspects. On the one hand, the threshold for access to the barrier premium, which must represent a reasonable balance between the representation of the votes cast and the stability of the majority coming out of the elections (both constitutionally relevant interests) and, on the other hand, the blocked lists, which are too long and therefore not suitable to make the choice of voters transparent and aware. The other profiles which, in the name of the Court of Justice, as the lawyers say, have been accused of being unconstitutional, fall within the political choices about the electoral model and, consequently, about the political system to be aimed at. Thus, the majority prize, the award of the prize to the list rather than to the coalition, the ballot with or without appearance, the preference vote or partially blocked list are decisive aspects in this perspective, but they cannot, if the solutions do not coincide with their idea of the game form or of the organization of the form of government, be for this reason only accused of unconstitutionality or of attack on democracy. On the one hand, there is the idea of a democracy capable of expressing a stable representation as a primary interest, a cohesive and ruling representation and, for this reason, capable of responding to the citizens of its work; on the other hand, there is the idea that the exercise of democratic sovereignty can be reversed only through the speculative representation of the vote expressed by each elector. This is an idea which, not only, in fact, calls into question the democratic character of some of the oldest European democracies (let us think of France, England, Spain, Germany itself), but is based above all on the idea that the progressive crisis of participation in party life and elections is linked to the abandonment of proportional laws with preference voting (forgotten, moreover, the institutional and moral degeneration that the combined arrangement of these two elements had produced) and not, instead, to the collapse of the parties of the First Republic, determined by the failure of ideological mobilization, by the rampant corruption and by the public debt produced by a blocked democracy and consequently by the overcoming of that point of equilibrium of the trade off between efficiency and democracy that, if exceeded, risks to overwhelm democracy itself. The growing delegitimization of the parties, old and new (or sometimes only apparently new), protagonists of the Second Republic has produced a profound disillusionment in the citizens, who after the thawing of the blocks expected a new system of alternation, mechanisms of responsibility capable of producing a profound and visible renewal of the ruling class, to give not only practical solutions, but above all a vision, a horizon to face the century of globalization. Instead, none of this. And it will certainly not be the rise of the vote of preference to give citizens the desire to participate in the life of parties and institutions. On the other hand, this is demonstrated by the data from the regional elections on the very low ratio between list voting and preference voting, a ratio that rises in areas where the propensity to vote for exchange is the highest (and we cannot say that in the regional elections the vote of preference has raised the quality of representation). In contradiction with the ambition to return the sceptre to the people through the vote of preference is the nostalgia of the Mattarellum that, on the contrary, between the choice of candidates in the uninomial colleges and blocked list, gave the parties the absolute power of designation of all the elected. As a result, the Mattarellum, which, for other well-known reasons, exposed to absolute precariousness majority and governments, gave only parties the responsibility to select the ruling class and to submit it in a transparent way to the citizens' judgment. [[Brusio. References by the President]] Finally, however, I would like to reflect on two aspects which I believe should be further examined: firstly, the unappearing ballot, in which a race for premiership is actually carried out. In this case, however, I fear that a critical situation could arise that the Court has already censored, because the majority prize, going to a single party that did not reach 40%, could reproduce that level of unreasonableness of the difference between votes cast and votes attributed to the party of the winning leader, which have already been the subject of the judgment of 2014. Appearance can correct this profile of potential unconstitutionality and broaden the representation of the related parties, provided that, as was said before, however, mechanisms are immediately foreseen in the parliamentary regulations that prevent the fragmentation of Groups and the exercise of coalition power by small parties, because otherwise would result the same phenomena that we have already experienced. Unlike the law of the mayors, in fact, where the distrust of the mayor involves the dissolution of the city council, here one would have the paradoxical possibility that a majority become such thanks to the victory of the leader can then distrust the Premier without any consequence for the elected parties that have been dragged - as it were - by the victory of the leader. So the design must be completed, in my opinion, with consistency. Another point that I personally do not share is that of multiple candidatures, which, in my opinion, contradict the reason which justifies the capilists, namely the fact that the selection of nominations is part of a party's political proposal, which takes responsibility for it and can determine the choice of the voter. The multiple candidacy, however, does not allow this transparent and clear choice and calls into question the loyalty of the relationship between the elector and the party: I vote you thinking of electing the leader and instead no, exactly as with the preferences my list vote will serve to elect a candidate that I would never have chosen, but that has greater ability to channel preferences on his name. I believe, however, that these aspects, which I believe must be the subject of reflection, are not such as to call into question the strategic objective that, with the adoption of this law, together with the approval of the reform of bicameralism, we will finally be able to achieve, that is, to unblock the reform of the institutions after fifteen years and to start their modernisation. [[Applause from Senators Maran and Dalla Zuanna]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all we must start from the reason why we are so troubled about the debate and the future vote on this amendment to the electoral law. Let us remember that we last talked about it a few days before Christmas at 7.40 a.m., after a whole night spent to approve the bill of stability proposed by the government, in a circumstance that I would not define differently if not paradoxical. A great deal of care has led to an interruption in the work of the Commission, which has already been well established, removing the responsibility of the rapporteur (and in this case also the President of the Commission itself) to conclude a work which, in a short time, could have produced synchronization in the proposals of majority and opposition in the usefulness of the citizens. 9:55 p.m., followed by CANDIANS. On the other hand, once again, the desire, or at least the unconsciousness, of the Government, of the President of the Council of Ministers, has led to the need to arrive immediately in the Chamber, as if the concern were such as to solve the entire problems of the economy and the country. In reality, however, there was simply one purpose, that of being able to express oneself in the newspapers with the usual phrase: we are doing the reforms; let us not waste time, indeed now we also take the pace. This is disconcerting; it is when we talk about any legal measure and it is even more so when it comes to measures relating to democracy itself, to citizens' right to representation. You see, Mr Senators, what we are discussing today is not a law to which the political life of the country will remain indifferent. Nor do I want to seek parallelism with the Acerbo law, as someone has done in recent days, but certainly, at a time like the moment of serious crisis of democratic representation, to make choices that go in the direction of removing the responsibility of citizens to decide who is to make the law, it means risking a very dangerous decline, all the more because the economic crisis leads people to exasperation, as well as the renunciation, sometimes, apart from their freedom, in order to resolve their economic situations of difficulty. It is therefore a very delicate situation that we need to assess and that, on the other hand, the majority seems to have already substantially phagocitized. I also believe, in connection with the last intervention made by Senator Lanzillotta, that the country needs reforms; who does not agree? Certainly, the country needs the proper functioning of the institutions, although I wonder what relevance this has to the reform of the electoral law, as set out by the government. Good management of the public body and good management of the institutions mean a Parliament that makes laws that then find real application in the country, not a Parliament that, at the direction of the Government, is engaged in the approval of motions, rather than of laws delegated to the same Government, which are not then implemented, if not after years, or even never and in any case at the maximum useful time expired with respect to the purpose that they should go to fulfill. It would be enough to reform this, i.e. the ways in which laws have an impact on the real world. The decree-laws and delegated decrees do not often find implementation, they remain there and we know well - and the government has a strong responsibility for this - how much work needs to be done and there is still to be done, in implementing the measures approved by Parliament, starting with those of the Monti Government: hundreds and hundreds of decree-laws that have yet to be implemented. This, however, is not dealt with either in the Chamber of Deputies or in the Senate. The aims then are others, they are those that, in a subtle way, are hidden from the country, that is to say the creation of conditions so that a single political party, a single politician, can concentrate in their hands the powers delegated by citizens to the State. We cannot, in fact, overlook the fact that, while we are debating electoral law here today, the House of Deputies is debating constitutional reform, which will affect the Senate and other bodies of the State and we know very well what would happen when the Italicum was to be approved. Let me say a few words here: how many words about the so-called Porcellum, of which all those who sit in this House are children and of which all the political parties and party secretaries have fed themselves in full hands during the last legislative years. Of course, however, everyone goes against a system that removes and removes responsibility to the citizens, replacing them with a new system that introduces preferences: a pity that they have no value and no use in the democratic choice of citizens because, with the blocked capilists, with this system that provides only 100 colleges, it will be exclusively the majority and a close elite to choose who will then have to make the laws in this country. I therefore appeal to those outside this House: citizens, be aware; what is happening here, under the lie of reforms that will slim down the country's legislative system, corresponds to a further, very serious loss of popular representation. The Senate, if the constitutional reform is completed, will no longer be composed of senators elected by citizens, but of representatives chosen by political parties among regional councillors. How many times, in the same speeches made in the past in this House, have we heard the class of those who today are in the region as certainly not the best - in terms of mirrored virtues - within the country? Yet these are those to whom the President of the Council of Ministers wants to entrust his future Senate, perhaps because, being blackmailable, they are all more meek. Then we add this electoral reform, with which the individual party, on the contrary, the individual party secretary who will win the elections will automatically be the one who, ruling with the majority, the next day can safely take the reins of the country. And so far, one might think that finally, the day after the elections, we will have the certainty of those who govern: in this way, however, it will dangerously focus in the hands of a single political force and a single character the power to choose then also the President of the Republic and - combining together the powers of the new Chambers, the President of the Republic and its majority - also the members of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Council of the judiciary. It is from the time of the Enlightenment that it is known that one power must be kept divided from the other and that the legislative power, held by those who make the laws, must be distinct from that of the judiciary and the executive. Here, instead, it is perpetuated as a virtue the fact of going together under a single political force - and, predictably, under one single person - all three powers that citizens delegate. There is a need for profound reflection on this, but this is not the case in this House. Honestly, it also escapes how one can be so dilated with respect to the reality that we live outside. Today we are engaged here in a debate that is already marked in its destiny, while outside we are questioning the same fundamental freedoms as citizens, as that of expression and expressing one's opinion without being killed. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] This is the paradox that we are facing today: being here to make an empty and empty rite, for the sole function and usefulness of the President of the Council of Ministers, who must get to convince the citizens that the reforms, its reforms, are the ones that will give new impetus to the country. Well, if we have to talk about reforms, we have to do it seriously and, above all, with knowledge of the facts. And here I address you, Senators of the majority: I consider those who have taken the courage, within the PD Group, to express their opinion in dissent. This is an opinion based on real reasons, which, as we said earlier, apply to the same capacity as the citizens to be represented. If credibility is to be restored, it must be done on the basis of citizens' involvement. It was right, yesterday, that Senator Sposetti reminded us that in 1979 those who went to vote were as many as 90% of the electoral corps, while in 2013 this percentage had already fallen to 60% and in the last elections it even stood at 50%. This is the scenario towards which we are heading, which is disaffection on the part of the citizens, but which will be even more aggravated by the fact that the day after the elections, I repeat, democratic representation will be further diluted, not even being able to actually choose those who will be called to make the laws. If it is a question of guaranteeing governance, of examples in Europe of countries that needed, the day after the elections, to sit at the table with political forces to decide who should govern, there are several, starting from Germany itself: those who today govern there - and do so with authority and authority within the European system - did not begin to do so the day after being elected, but sat for weeks at the consultation table with the other political forces to find a spirit, the one that should animate any political choice, that is what goes in the interest of the country. But here constitutional reforms and reforms of the electoral law are being made, keeping quiet that others are the interests behind them. Many times - and I say this with respect to the Senators of Forza Italia - I have heard that you do not agree but you have a pact, the stone guest, the pact of the Nazarene. But how much must these things bind your conscience today in being able to represent the citizens who elected you? We have decided a path of opposition that is without if and without but to this Government, and I wonder what choice leads you today to bow to the decisions desired by the Renzi Government and to leave your citizens without a representation of opposition in you. We accept this challenge because, as much as you cannot do because you are bound, we want to do so because we are opposed to this Government and we want to do so to the full, democratically representing the citizens. There's no Nazarene or any other deal I'm keeping! We will represent our citizens and also your voters, those to whom you do not represent by not opposing them. If another issue is to be raised in this debate, what respect is there for minorities and oppositions in an electoral reform and a constitutional that marginalizes them? Of course we have tabled a lot of amendments, almost 40,000 amendments and, perhaps, even more. Someone said it's sandbags that can be opened in a few minutes with some kangaroo. It may be, but by making this choice, we have given all the oppositions the opportunity to have space and be represented in this debate. Whatever the future of these amendments, whether there are, whether they exist, live or not, are put to the vote or withdrawn, we will continue and continue to reaffirm the right of the opposition to be able to represent different positions than those which are useful to the majority, because this would not be in the interests of a democratic debate on the contrary. There are historical courses and resorts. Certainly we are at a time when democratic legitimacy seems to be lacking in respect of this institution, with paradoxes as well. In fact, I think that this is the only rare legislature that is to elect twice the President of the Republic, with a decision of the Constitutional Court calling into question the same legitimacy as the election of this House and the Chamber of Deputies. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] And that's the real paradox. This is the only time in republican history in which the President of the Republic is twice elected in the same legislature with a delegitimized Chamber, and you are here to propose an electoral law that even makes confusion between the House and the Senate, because the latter is abolished in the constitutional reform that is not yet operational. And an electoral law is made that applies only to the Chamber of Deputies, with a President of the Council of Ministers who preaches the thousand days in order to be able to solve the problems of the country, and then obliges the Senate at 7.40 a.m., before Christmas, to incardinate and already question the electoral law; that is, there is eager to have a solution to go to the vote. Let us go to the vote with any electoral law, but let us give the citizens the responsibility to choose who is to govern the crisis in this country! If there is a President of the Council of Ministers who, when he comes to the Chamber, roars the lion and, when he goes to Europe, bows in two like a sheep, this is not to do the interests of the country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]] This may be in your personal interest. This may be in the interest of those who only want to appear. But our citizens today must not be deluded, because it is not serious a government that presents, once again, a law of stability that for 11 billion goes into deficit, that does not solve the problems of the country, that puts in the pockets of citizens 80 euros to remove them then with taxes at the end of the year. A serious country is not the one in which a delegated decree is presented according to a delegation received from the Senate and the Chamber on the tax law and then modified a codicil, the famous 19-a, by a hand that is not yet known of who it is. The President of the Council of Ministers, also feeling a little rhetorically led to such statements, claimed the writing of this code. But it is known that over the years rules similar to this paragraph were floating here and there, depending on the opportunity, in all the laws of stability and in the financial. So, I wonder why citizens are being deceived and caught up in this way. What is at stake and what are the reasons why the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers is doing this today? We have a very clear idea and it is certainly not the conspiracy of the strong powers that want to overpower the country. The problem is the weak country, not the strong powers. The problem is that the country has been broken by a political class that, when it presents itself and wants to make the primary, gets investigated by the judiciary, because it leads to the ballot boxes of its own party, the PD, Moroccans and all foreigners, who are put there simply to have the vote and make their candidate prevail. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Bignami, Gambaro and Rizzotti]] These methods do not restore credibility among the citizens. The democratic choice is even more embarrassed. That is not what needs to be done, because this is once again a contempt for democratic representation, which this House and its members must express towards the citizens. Well, Madam President, we cannot even be silent about the fact that in these days what can be called a perfect storm is being carried out, with the constitutional reform being discussed in the Chamber of Deputies; with the electoral law, which the Government wants to have approved with great care here in the Senate, and with the President of the Republic resigning. With all due respect for President Napolitano, if he wanted to wait until the end of the six months of the European semester to resign, not wanting in any way to embarrass the Government and expecting results from the European semester, he could have bought time for his tranquillity and retirement by doing so already 6 months ago. Attention: here is in question the same democratic estate of the country. The serious problems of the country are outside and it is the problems of work and people who do not see solutions for their future. The government must commit itself to this. I repeat to the Senators of Forza Italia: we will be opposition to the end. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Bignami, Mussini and Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u18	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the debate that has taken place so far in this House on electoral law has made many critical remarks - I note this, but everyone can look at the details of the speeches - not only within the real opposition forces, as perhaps could have been taken for granted, but also in the representatives of the majority forces, on elements that I think we should focus well. And that, then, is the effort I will try to make. This has taken place in a context which unfortunately reminds us sadly of the debate on constitutional reforms. For the truth, we have always held together the reasoning, objections, oppositions and criticisms advanced about constitutional reforms, with the electoral law - Italicum - which had meanwhile been approved by the House of Deputies. We have spoken clearly and precisely of a combination between the constitutional reform in itinerantly and the electoral law, which risks producing a profound change in our democratic system and in some way a surreptitious overcoming, without clarifying it, of the same form of parliamentary democracy, as has been given to us by the constitutional architecture. We have always talked about this arranged combination - and perhaps, alas, we have arrived at the epilogue - denouncing also the trends of the last twenty years in our country that, behind the obsession - as I define it - of constitutional reforms, has in fact delivered a progressive verticalization of the political and institutional system and, in fact, a reduction of representation. The obsession of reforms, inspired only by the equally obsessive idea of governability, has produced a profound crisis of representative democracy in all these years - it is in everyone's eyes and one cannot but see - and above all a disaffection, a real crisis in relations between citizens and institutions. There is deep distrust - although I do not like to quote polls, confidence does not exceed 3% - towards the political and parliamentary system and, therefore, a crisis of representative democracy, the representation of the political system towards the citizen, which manifests itself in extreme forms through disaffection from the vote, as has been mentioned by many colleagues and, not least, last night, by Mr Sposetti. The data are pitiful from the statistical point of view and have led us to a negative record in terms of participation in the vote in the European elections, not to mention the regional elections in Emilia-Romagna and Calabria. The obsession of governability has produced this phenomenon, but it has not given governability. Reforms and the new electoral law are now announced as a real turning point in relation to the past. It is said that at last we get to the point and that the debate of these years comes to an end. I would like to remind you briefly that that debate had produced a constitutional reform (the one of the Berlusconi Government, which the citizens fortunately did not confirm) and also, unfortunately, an electoral law (the Porcellum), which was declared strongly unconstitutional in the Constitutional Court's judgment No 1. Both the Porcellum and the constitutional reform had a precise purpose, which I defined as "the obsession of governance," i.e. a model of absolutely top-notch democracy or - as many scholars like to call it - a sort of investiture democracy in which the founding element is to invest a leader, a Premier, and certainly not an adequate form of representative democracy. Today we are here to discuss the Porcellum, because, precisely, there was the intervention of the Constitutional Court. But, in fact, in public opinion, that law was referred to as one of the strong elements of loss of credibility, because citizens did not accept and do not accept the idea of a Parliament of nominations. The citizens have felt they have been expropriated of the possibility of deciding their representatives and the damage they have done in our democratic system is incalculable. Therefore, given all the statements of the turning point, both on the reforms and on the electoral law, I would have expected that there would be - indeed - the turning point, that is to say that the disease that has afflicted and worn out the democratic system of our country would be interrupted. I expected that the process of verticalization of the political-institutional system would be interrupted and that representative democracy would also be revived and given a soul. This would actually be the turning point. In fact, we are faced - I repeat - with a continuity with these phenomena that are today the evil of our country's democracy. Here we are often blamed for the fact that citizens are finally waiting for constitutional reforms and electoral law. Of course, the citizens would like to have the opportunity to choose (and, perhaps, they also hoped) and, I would like to remind you here that, unlike others, in this Parliament we in the Left Group Ecology and Freedom took on the burden of collecting signatures to repeal the Porcellum. Among other things, I would like to remind you that, during that referendum campaign, there was a great deal of support: it was not by chance that a million and 200,000 signatures were collected in a very short time, the last act of faith and commitment of the citizens themselves to resume the possibility of choosing their representatives, with the hope of giving back strength to the democratic system. On the other hand, it was necessary to await the decision of the Constitutional Court. We hoped that this pronunciation and even the great disaffection were a strong signal of alarm, capable of producing the idea of moving forward and changing the trend of the last twenty years, giving a turning point and responding to the demand for democracy that exists in the country. This disaffection and detachment are, in fact, also a demand, which is highlighted in another way, for greater participation and greater democracy. On the contrary, we are faced with proposals that are in continuity with the past. I will not dwell on constitutional reform again, but what does it actually produce? Does it produce, once again, more democracy? I don't think so. Have we taken any further steps to put in place stronger instruments of participatory democracy? Does the constitutional reform that is now being discussed in the House of Deputies produce additional elements that reactivate participation and revive the political system and representative democracy? No. In fact, we start - even there - to indulge even more (without saying it clearly, but in fact) a democracy of the Premier (let's call it so), a strong premierate, accentuating that process of verticalization. And in fact, on the crucial issue of strengthening representative democracy, as far as the Senate is concerned, an incredible operation is produced, in the sense that the election is eliminated directly, that is, the direct possibility of citizens being able to choose their representatives in a House. With electoral law - and here I come to the critical points - instead of responding to the serious issues posed by the Constitutional Court, reminding us of the principles of constitutional architecture that led to the declaration of unconstitutionality of the law, in reality it operates in total continuity. Not by chance, Italicum is considered the Porcellum 2 "vengeance," and someone says Italicum 2.0, but it is the Porcellum 2 "vengeance." Once again that idea of democracy is confirmed, and I say it to the Minister. When an electoral law is made, in fact, we must first investigate the purpose of this electoral law. I had been fooling myself for a long time and, not by chance, for a long time we have avoided giving strong definitions, avoiding talking about authoritarian turning point. We have tried to understand whether they really wanted to put reforms in place and an amendment of the electoral law that put them back into circulation and revive our system of representation, responding first of all to the deep crisis of relations between citizens and the institutions themselves. Instead, with Porcellum 2, that is, with this proposal, in reality we continue to walk on the same road. I do not see any solution of continuity, but I see a confirmation of that idea of investiture democracy which I believe is the true model of democracy to which this Government and this majority are inspired, without saying so and perhaps without confessing it to themselves. This bill - I repeat again - tends, in fact, once again, to follow the logic that one does not choose one's own representatives, does not give the citizens the opportunity to actually participate, does not revive and does not give strength to political pluralism. The purpose, on the other hand, is the declared one. What's the point? The purpose of this electoral law is to know the evening of the elections - this is what is repeated over and over again - not who won, but who will rule. The obsession of governability, which has not produced governability - it has not produced, in these twenty years, any kind of governability, I think, and you certainly cannot say the opposite - is accompanied by the fact that, in declaring that purpose of the electoral law, the idea of investiture democracy is actually sealed. Someone spoke of a transition to a strong premierate, without the appropriate changes that could have predicted counterweights within the constitutional system. This is precisely the aim and it is absolutely dangerous, because this trend, favoured in recent times more and more by the extension of the plebiscytic component (or, in its degenerate, populist form) within our political systems, can really create a serious problem of democratic maintenance of the entire system. When I say that the transition to this model of democracy has been favored and accentuates the plebiscytic component it is because in this House I have heard many times exponents of the majority and the Democratic Party thunder against forms of populism. But, in fact, what is still being pursued is exactly this, even with this electoral law: the important thing is to know which will be the Premier who will win. The critical elements that have been submitted to us by the Constitutional Court - I say this very clearly - are not resolved either by the proposals for amendments tabled by the majority. And I get to the critical points. First of all, I quote the majority prize. Look carefully, colleagues, that the model we are inspired by, namely the direct election of mayors, does not set a threshold. Do not think that the objections and questions raised by the Constitutional Court are only resolved by the fact that a minimum threshold is set for access to the majority prize. In our Constitution, in fact, when it comes to majority voting, it is either a qualified majority or an absolute majority (50 plus one). If you are inspired by the model for the direct election of mayors - this once again reveals what is the purpose of electoral law and, therefore, a verticalization, in reality a concentration only on the leader - the majority is 50 plus one. Here, however, the threshold is increased from 37 to 40, but I believe that the critical remarks of the Constitutional Court are not in this way exceeded. What does the court tell us? There must be reasonableness and balance with the principle of representation. The majority prize cannot be a distorting element of representation, because this is the constitutional architecture that we should be inspired by and which the electoral law should be inspired by. Even for the ballot, we are inspired by the model of election of the mayors. However, we know the ballots for the election of monocratic positions, while here the system of balloting extends to the election of Parliament, and that says a lot about the idea that everything is focused on the Premier. Well, this element of distortion is increased, Minister, because it can happen that the ballot may win the force arrived perhaps second and took 20%, but it is at the first round that the element of representativeness is fixed and, therefore, the relationship between the votes and the elected. So, the surplus of seats that are allocated is huge. So, what do you want to tend to? Evidently to a government without a people, or to a government with as many people as possible and with as little representativeness as possible. At this point I also suspect that perhaps the aim of both constitutional reform and electoral law is not to respond to the crisis of representation; it is not to reconstruct a relationship between citizens and institutions, to give back the word and the possibility for citizens to choose, but perhaps to resign themselves, rather to facilitate a mechanism of detachment from the vote. Maybe abstentionism is also convenient from this point of view, if the idea is even to pursue a possibility of governing anyway, even without the people themselves. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator. She's gone way beyond her time. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). This is another critical element, with the majority prize and the barrier. In this country one continues to confuse the obsession of governability with stability. The German system, which is stable, tells us that, where there is the barrier (5 percent in that case), there is no majority prize. Yet, it is a stable system. On the other hand, there is the majority prize, with consequent problems of distortion and reasonableness that are not solved, and moreover, the barrier is put. I appreciate the changes made, because the system of barriers that the House had given us was truly incredible and denounced only and only the idea of compressing pluralism and representation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). So it is fine that it has been changed, but it remains a critical point: the question of blocked lists. I conclude by saying that we cannot solve the problem with a single leader and the other elected with preferences, because this will only concern the party that takes the majority prize. All the other voters in the other parties - and here is the problem of equality of voting - will not have the same chance. There is the multi-candidate mechanism, which will create a very strong problem - I say this to the President of the Commission - on gender balance because, with the multi-candidate mechanism, the problem of gender equality will not only be solved, but will risk being very, very serious. I appeal in this regard, because the elements of unconstitutionality remain, in my view. Can we take the risk that, for the second time, the Constitutional Court, the judge of the laws, will intervene on the electoral law to declare it unconstitutional? At that point the disaster would be completed and there would be total delegitimization of the institutions, of Parliament, of the political system. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] In a time of deep economic and social crisis, the risk to democracy is enormous. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and Senators Bignami, De Pin, Bencini, Mussini and Romani Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u21	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are at a time when this very particular electoral law is being discussed. In fact, we are formally discussing the text that has been sent to us by the House of Deputies, so we are at second reading. On the other hand, however, we know that amendments signed by the majority and some opposition forces have already been handed over. It is not simply a chronicle, but a representation of the political context in which this debate falls. I would remind myself that the law that we inherit from the Chamber of Deputies at second reading is basically based on coalitions, I would say on compulsory coalitions. Within the coalitions there is a threshold of 4.5 percent; to form a coalition there is a threshold of 12 percent; to appear alone, outside the coalitions, the threshold is 8 percent. The significance, even political, of this threshold architecture we could see on a scale in the Calabrian elections, where a law not equal but similar, which provided for a threshold of 4% within the coalitions and 8% for the formation of a coalition, has made it clear in fact how such a mechanism can be used and what are the difficulties that small forces can face. Since history and politics also have their own irony, it has happened that precisely the party I represent has benefited from that architecture, because it has unjustly taken away 2.5 percent of the allied party which, having not reached the threshold, has given its votes and therefore allowed the party I represent to take a wider representation. We understood in the test tube what was the treatment that could have been reserved for us. Three thresholds for the coalitions, I said, and 37 percent as the limit reached which there is no need for the second round. Finally, this law that I recall provides short lists but blocked: in this way the elector has the possibility to identify the candidates of the different parties, but not to choose them. Since this law was passed at first reading, as the most evident fruit of the so-called "Nazarene Pact," two things have happened. The first is that this House at first reading approved a reform of bicameralism, which made the only House elected directly by the people and which provided for a Senate as the Chamber of Regions, composed of one hundred representatives, that is a very small number, chosen with the election of second degree by the Regional Councils. It will therefore change the representation, because those who will sit in this House - if that reform is approved - will be representatives of the Regions at least in the same title for which they will be representatives of the parties (most likely, they will be more representatives of the Regions than representatives of the parties). The second important fact is that a majority agreement has been reached, which is basically reflected in the amendments which have been tabled which have actually changed - in my view rightly - the establishment of the law as it had emerged from the House. This is precisely because electoral law is not a separate body but is a fundamental element of institutional architecture and, therefore, must be read together with the form of State, together with the type of bicameralism that presents itself and together with the form of government that it proposes. The electoral law influences the form of government and is influenced by it. I believe, therefore, that the majority did well to propose a modification of the law as it had emerged from the Chamber, because this law (I have a different reading from that of my colleague De Petris, but on the point he is right) enters an institutional architecture that is different, has fundamentally changed. In fact, if we change Title V, we change the bicameralism and we strongly affect the form of government (because the double turn is certainly not the premiered, but in the second round there is no doubt that we choose the government and also the representative); if we are in a different institutional architecture, we could not think of leaving the electoral law as it is. I would remind myself that the law as it is being modified is no longer based on coalitions but on lists, which should be coalition parties, i.e. it replaces the coalitions of parties with coalition parties; it provides that, in order to access the double turn, we must reach 40% instead of 37; it provides that there are no longer blocked lists, but there are only blocked capilists; finally, it eliminates the diversification of thresholds and proposes only one technical, fixed at 3%, that I would call "fragmentation threshold" because it has no other use. An electoral law must, in fact, maintain a balance between representation and governance. And at a time when the governance of the system is secured by a majority prize that is even awarded to a party and no longer to a coalition, there is no reason to further penalise representation. This is the substance of the majority covenant. We therefore represent the situation as it has been determined. There are two agreements: there is the agreement of the Nazarene, which produced the first law, and there is a majority agreement, which influenced the change of the first. The two agreements are somewhat asymmetrical, they do not communicate with each other; at the heart is the figure of the President of the Council and of the Government, who somehow managed them both. I believe that this situation is perfectly represented by the amendments that we are going to discuss. It is no coincidence that there are two fundamental amendments: one is signed by all the majority and one part of the opposition; the other, on the other hand, only by the majority. There is therefore an asymmetry and there is evidently within this situation also a hiatus, which arises precisely from the lack of communication, from the fact that the authors have never all found themselves at the same table. This is something that we will clearly have to take into account in the coming days, but it cannot be an alibi. I say this very clearly on behalf of my Group and my Group. Democratic transitions took place in two ways: either through traumatic events, as in the transition from the Fourth to the Fifth Republic, in which the rules were fundamentally dictated by the winner, or through broad agreements, because the rules are all written together. When this second method is adopted, obviously the result cannot be optimal for anyone and the agreement must necessarily have its own empirical component and, to some extent, even approximate, that must be accepted. Therefore, the fact that there is an asymmetry and a hyat in the covenant is not for us an alibi that justifies "indiscipline". There may be personal positions, but there is a discipline of the Group that obviously applies. This, however, does not prevent us from holding a free debate within Parliament, without hypocrisy: this debate takes into account all the previous agreements, because this is the case in democracies, including those in Parliament. On the other hand, Parliament is a place where there can be convictions that lead to maturity. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to make a few comments on three aspects which will certainly only be translated if this brings that pact to its full maturity. The first concerns the issue of preferences and blocked capilists. Colleagues, you know that our Group has made the issue of choosing the chosen one by the voter a qualifying point (I must say my Group even more than myself, in the sense that I too believe that preferences have unmistakable advantages, but also unmistakable limits). On the other hand, I cannot fail to note that preferences are now being used for elections to municipal councils, regional councils and elections to the European Parliament, so it is absolutely wrong to propose a number of arguments against preferences only with regard to parliamentary representation. I remember that at first reading the bill did not provide for preferences; instead it now provides them except for the capilist and also imagines the possibility that there are multi-candidates, so the parties that want to use that system can minimize the number of so-called "named" elected. As far as we are concerned, we will make full use of this opportunity which the bill offers us, to give voters the opportunity to make as much impact as possible. It is therefore a point of drop which is clearly a step forward, and I say that there is our willingness to take into account all the assumptions that may lead to further progress. If I may express a system concern, I would like to say that it would be good for multi-candidates, where confirmed and even expanded, to provide for a mechanism whereby the choice of the college in which the multi-candidate is eventually elected is determined by voters and not by his personal option. I believe that this would greatly strengthen the law and do so also in the light of the reading of the Constitutional Court's ruling. On the other hand, this could also make it easier to expand the number of multi-candidates, because at this point, however, the choice would remain in the hands of voters and not of those elected in several colleges. Second point: list or coalition. We are leaving a system of compulsory coalitions, in which the coalitions have made themselves to win the elections, to enter Parliament and not to govern. This has been one of the most critical points of how our political system has worked since 1994 to date. It is therefore appropriate to overcome those coalitions and I believe that a re-evaluation of the parties and also of large parties is a positive fact. We wanted the 3% threshold to be included because we believe that there must be a balance between representation and governance, not because we have the ambition to create a small party. It is clear that this bill goes in another way and therefore, since electoral laws also determine political facts, it must also push for new aggregations and we have the ambition to be a core of a new and greater aggregation. All I'm saying is that electoral laws and institutional systems are an orthopedic that tries to correct some distortions in order to facilitate governability; however, orthopedics can correct, cannot create, so we are careful to remove any elasticity to the system, because we risk moving from compulsory coalitions to the prohibition of coalitions. However, if we are to base a law on parties, we must ensure that parties are stronger, more transparent and truly at the heart of this system. We must therefore think of a law implementing Article 49 of the Constitution, which also provides guarantees in the formation of federations. This law is going towards the creation of federal parties and we must rethink - let me say this to myself - the issue of the financing of politics. I believe that legislation is also experimental: we must note that the law that we have adopted, which, among other things, bears my signature, did not work (although we could not include a number of requests for indirect funding that I would have liked to foresee, because of course the majority did not agree). Today, therefore, the parties on the one hand are positively experiencing forms of self-financing, and I believe that this is a positive, not scandalous fact. On the other hand, however, the mechanism of 2 per thousand, which we had planned to give EUR 12 million per year, has instead given about 600,000 and therefore the parties, which today should be at the heart of this system, risk being very weak. If we therefore confirm this choice, within a vision that truly leads us to a comprehensive reform of our institutions, we take the commitment to review, with ordinary law, both the internal order of the parties, and the guarantees that their members must have, both the federal mechanisms, and the forms of financing that in some cases are an incentive to the participation of citizens, especially if they take place through indirect contributions (and can be done so much in the life of a party through indirect contributions).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u22	You should finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u23	Mr Quegliariello (AP (NCD-UDC)). I will conclude, Madam President, by pointing out that the list system has an advantage but also a risk: the advantage is that it confirms bipolarism, and this is perhaps the best of the aspects that characterized the season from 1992 until today; on the other hand, it does so at a time when the norm in Europe is no longer bipolarism, but the coalitions more or less large (as we have seen in England and Germany and as we will see shortly in Spain). Now, because the internal, international and economic security crisis we are experiencing is changing political geography, we are going towards a confirmation of bipolarism and we are going to force it, even much. I would like to make one final point, very briefly, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, thank you. Mr Quegliariello (AP (NCD-UDC)). The safeguard clause is neither a kind concession nor a way to preserve this House at all costs, but it is born of a bet, which is of the majority. In my opinion, even the date on which this clause is placed must be lived in this way: it is clear that this law only makes sense if the one on bicameralism is approved, because it has been calibrated on the existence of a new and different bicameralism. We have set 1 July 2016 as the date on which it will enter into force: this implicitly means that the majority makes a bet with itself and with the country, namely that by that date it will have completed the reform of bicameralism and, more generally, the overall reform of the institutions. I believe that this is also a topic of comparison and deepening because, being a bet, before determining the point of fall, it is better to think about it well. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u24	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u25	Madam President, I am speaking on this electoral law which is actually connected, in essence, with the Constitution. What is an electoral law? It is a set of rules that must regulate the possibility of having a great representativeness of the people within the institutions which then have to legislate. This is the electoral system and the main point is to give representation, really give the citizen the chance to have a person to trust because he is a person who really represents him; then blocking the lists is to remove pieces from this possibility, that of having a person who is really representative. So you're taking away pieces of democracy. Links with the citizen and society break. Mr President, a great mistake has already been made with the previous electoral system and fortunately the Constitutional Court, albeit with great delay, has declared it unconstitutional, and if we then go and look, in essence, the unconstitutionality has declared it precisely because of what we have said. The citizen votes and his vote must be valid, he must give the citizen the opportunity to feel part of the State and with this electoral system and with the constitutional law - the colleague has now left - other prerogatives of which our Constitutional Charter is centred on are removed from the people. At this point you are introducing; indeed, you are speeding up and insisting on a concept, namely that parties are the seat of the representativeness of the people. I read Article 49 of the Constitution: "All citizens have the right to join freely" - how beautiful this part is, President - "in parties to compete with democratic method" - also the electoral law is part of this method - "to determine national politics." That's what we've been talking about so far. Article 49 of the Constitution was made not by persons, but by people who would have been killed - and many have also done so - for us who are their children. By referring to this article, in fact, we note that it is full of a concept, the freedom of the individual. Let's read it again together: they have the right to join freely. The parties were thought of as containers of the individual's freedom to be with each other; but can we really say today that these organizations offer freedom? No. The individual had to grow and progress within these organizations through also exchange with others and in diversity because this is also growth and personal progress. No, something else happened. Men feel uncomfortable and we see it even when we vote. I remember the votes during the constitutional reform: the secret ballot votes were able to express the freedom of which Article 49 we have read is full. This freedom has been transformed into something else. Why this discomfort? The parties have become systems prone to being overwhelmed by the power of money. The power of money then succeeds in overwhelming the individuals within the parties, as long as we leave public funding to the parties. I remind myself first of all: the 5 Star Movement does not take it, it does not want it, it leaves it to the State and the citizens, because we said that in the electoral campaign and that we did later. It is necessary to get used to saying 'yes' in the election campaign and to continue to say 'yes' after the election campaign, that is to say the truth. The truth now seems like a revolution. There is therefore a deformation of the parties - before we saw their birth, Article 49 of the Constitution - which at that point is also a deformation of the State, in all its facets, including citizens and economic and cultural groups. In this regard I like to read a very fitting sentence by Adriano Olivetti, who said that one was at the end of the parties, that "so the current political regime takes the name, not wrongly, of partyocracy, governed by an occult and complex cog of interests and personalisms" and that this end has sanctioned the beginning of decadence." Already at the time - and we are almost in the fifties - something was happening and this man had already intuitioned what might have happened. In this House we would have the opportunity to change, but, as I said before, we are putting the accelerator in order to remove the possibility for citizens to express themselves and to have representation within the institutions. Mr President, this is how your electoral system for provincial elections - not certainly ours - is born. The provincial elections! Do citizens know that they voted for the Provinces? Most people don't know, but they voted. I appeal to the citizens: you did not vote, but they voted for you! You have thus lost confidence in the citizens and removed pieces of democracy. So the citizens, as we have also seen in the last regional elections, have obviously lost confidence in the parties: they have lost confidence in you! I say "voi" because we are not involved in this decadence. In fact, the thing that makes you angry is that this decadence, which is presented with refined words, kind ways and therefore by a moderate person - what is the Italian citizen - is also considered a right thing. This is just the victory of fiction. It is said that constitutional reform, which is presented in this fantastic way - how beautiful! ‐ will give new life to the institutions and finally the State will work. The state doesn't work because men don't work! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] NUGNES (M5S). Bravo! PUGLIA (M5S). Constitutional reform is full of this deformation. The citizen will no longer have the opportunity to vote on the senators, this possibility is taken away. Madam President, I cannot believe that the President-in-Office of the Council even said, and media journalists standing in the gallery - today there are only two or three - reported it, that the Senate had been abolished. That's not true, the Senate will be there, but it will be full of people appointed by the parties. One thing has been abolished: democracy, the vote on citizens! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] NUGNES (M5S). Bravo! PUGLIA (M5S). This is constitutional reform! You want to introduce her with nice words and kind ways! If something's a scumbag, it's a scumbag, even if it's presented like that. I must admit that when we attended school we were much more true, more genuine: we fought and said things as they were. We were people who were freely associated, in that case to join a part of the school society by freely saying things and then acting accordingly. One thing is the word, one thing is action; because in words we are all good, but it is action that counts. Well, in this Chamber too, I have heard words in dissent in the debate on constitutional reform as well as in this electoral debate. I have also heard through these dissenting words of these diktat who even come from Berlusconi. So there is a party, that of the PD, that is still under check of Berlusconi; I say "yet" because it always has been, let's face it, President. These dissenting words are fine, but really oppose, resign from your party in mass. Go! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Otherwise the words heard in this House have the only effect of raising the temperature a little bit in this environment, because they are hot air! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the representative of the Government, it is time for us to see, every time there is a debate on reforms, to one side that interprets and marries the need for change in this country and another that, as always, tries instead to preserve things as they are. Memories know that constitutional and institutional reforms have been discussed for about thirty years. Whenever attempts have been made, there have always been, both in Parliament and outside, organizations and thought committees that have always boycotted the reforms. I believe that this time the challenge that Parliament has brought, especially to this world of people who do not intend to change anything, will have a right answer, which goes in the sense of radically transforming Part Two of our Constitution. We're on this game. That is why we welcomed the invitation to participate in the constitutional reform which saw the amendment of Article 117, the abolition of the CNEL and, above all, the end of the perfect bicameral system. Some people call it monocameralism, but I would talk about the imperfect bicameral system, as the reformer process began. I believe that we are on the right track to ensure that, once and for all, we begin to touch the relationship between citizens and politics. This is a first step forward. In the course of this parliamentary term, there was a ruling - sentence No 1 of 2014, which I have heard repeated several times in this House - which gave the Constitutional Court, for the first time, in a serious way, to touch what seemed to be the unchangeable and untouchable law, especially by the judge of the laws. This time, however, the judge of the laws intervened. Some have felt that this is a positive fact; those who speak to you believe that this is an extremely negative fact. At a time when the Constitutional Court also enters into the rules that Parliament adopts, I believe that, although it is not the first time that the Court will say what it thinks, we have, however, opened the way for the Court to determine what is the best law for us to go to the polls. I hope I am wrong, but I have also had a clear feeling from the hearings we have held that the vast presence of the judges of the Council and the Presidents emeritus probably goes in this direction. What did Judgment No. 1 of 2014 say? This judgment considered that there were passages that presented profiles of unconstitutionality. He declared it and, therefore, that law was - as they say - somehow undermined. The Constitutional Court has also established that an existing electoral system exists and, where this legislature is to end, the electoral law that remains is an electoral law that allows citizens to go and vote (what, vulgarly, we all called the Consultellum). This is and remains: it is the law that we must apply where - I repeat - the Chambers were to be dissolved for whatever reason. Intervento or - better - begun the course of constitutional modification regarding the "abolition" of the Senate, or, better, the reform of the perfect bicameralism (from perfect to imperfect, as I have already said), there is the need to adopt a law this time only for the House, that is suitable to make you adapt to this new system and you choose which can be the best technicality that must exist in a new system for us. Here President Renzi considered that a majority as broad as possible was desirable: this, in fact, happened. We would like to thank both the Government and Parliament, in particular President Finocchiaro, for the work that has been done in this area. The initial agreement provided for a barrier in order to allow, if that threshold were reached, to enjoy a majority prize with variegated representativeness thresholds depending on whether it was in coalition or whether the party thought to go alone, therefore, with what is said in the list. It seemed to us, even for what we audited in the Commission, that that structure had its own logic and held. The mole that had been pointed out from several quarters is that maybe 37 percent, placed as a threshold to possibly enjoy the majority prize, had to be revised and re-discussed. In this sense, it seems to me that bringing it to 40% can surely find the majority of the House consenting. The problem with barriers is different. We would have thought and wished - there are our amendments in this respect - that the barriers could remain as they were, because they were part of the agreement. Of the two: or the barrier is removed, because in a system such as the one that has been chosen the barrier has no reason to exist, or it is placed to avoid a considerable fragmentation. Then it is a question of understanding what sensitivity is, that is, whether it is right to guarantee representativeness to a party that reaches 3% or whether it has to reach 4% or 5%. In Germany the barrier is 5%, with a different system, but no one is scandalized. So it is clear that there has been a call from the Government to the majority of the Government to impose this on it. It does not seem to me - I repeat - that we must shout at the scandal; indeed, the search for a larger majority possible is what we all hope for. But there are points on which I believe we need to reason and we need to work together to find a solution. Personally I cannot understand why, in the passage between the reading of the Chamber and that of the Senate, the word "coalition" has been eliminated. This is a fundamental point for us. We have approached this agreement precisely because we believe and believed that two political parties, a centre-left as democratic as possible, and a liberal centre-right opposition force, which can also be identified in a party, but that is not said. In a composite system like ours, I believe we need to talk about coalition. It is true, however, that the previous experience - as some have already said - has shown us that sometimes the spurious coalitions, especially those that are curled up at the last moment, do not allow governability. But today our system is mature; we know which parties identify themselves in an area of liberal and reformist centre-right and those that instead identify themselves on the other side. I therefore hope and hope - and I address this to the Government, as well as to the House - that there may be serious rethinking on this point. I am of the opinion that both the list and the coalition should be left open; one should not exclude the other. This would be an important and significant result for us; otherwise, the game that we wanted with this reform and with this further deepening must be clarified in all its parts. I shall dwell very briefly on a number of points which we have considered to be amending or subservient and which we consider to be of particular importance. I have already said about the safeguard clause; we have tabled amendments to indicate as a deadline 30 June, 30 July or 30 September. In some versions we specify that the requirement for entry into force is also to entrust the trust with the Government to the Chamber of Deputies alone. On these issues we have tabled a sub-amendment to the 1.7001 majority amendment which reiterates - and I would stress this once again - the link with the constitutional and specific reform that the Consultellum applies until 1 July 2016. We have tabled amendments with regard to the appearances at the stage of the ballot, where the two lists or, as we hope, the two coalitions do not reach the barrier (37 per cent today and hopefully 40 per cent); in this respect we have tabled a sub-amendment calling for the possibility of appearing on the ballot, that is, to allow appearances to increase the electoral participation in the ballot that otherwise risks being very low, since millions of citizens would see their own reference party excluded from the competition. On the other hand, I have heard a lot of talk about how people can return to the vote and therefore become interested in politics. A note, although it may seem marginal - but I think it should - concerns the election of Trentino-Alto Adige and Valle d'Aosta. We have tabled a number of amendments and sub-amendments calling in various ways for us to return to the system planned for Trentino-Alto Adige and for Valle d'Aosta in the so-called Calderoli law of 2005. The Trentino-Alto Adige would function again like all other Italian districts, while the Valle d'Aosta would remain a single system autonomous from the rest of the districts. In our opinion, however, it would be necessary to revise the system of Trentino-Alto Adige by eliminating the single-member colleges that would lead to an over-representation of the center-left and the Südtiroler Volkspartei, penalising the other Italian and German parties. On the number of districts, too, we have considered asking for a change: from the present 20 to 27, as it was in the Mattarellum, or 32 as it was in the First Republic. There are also two amendments which, as an alternative to the blocked leader, call for the establishment of circumscription lists. With this hypothesis the effect on the selection of the elect would be the same as with the capilists blocked. The lists would be short, therefore fully in line with the Constitutional Court's ruling, to take advantage of the circumscription level for the allocation of a part of the seats that would solve the problem of pinball, which concerns the allocation of seats to small parties and that the majority tries to resolve with a solution that does not convince us completely. I think we need to review some aspects regarding the candidacy of Italian residents abroad. We propose the amendment of Law No. 459 of 2001, in the matter of election in the foreign constituency, which also allows residents in Italy to apply in the foreign constituency. Perhaps running a leader in one of these districts could draw attention and increase a very low electoral participation today. With regard to the allocation of seats in colleges based on the actual number of votes, the problem of the so-called random allocation of seats, which has to be resolved, must be addressed - and I believe that this House is called upon to respond. In many simulations small parties take seats in multi-name colleges where they have fewer votes, not electing anyone where instead they have greater results. This was also the case in some simulations for larger parties. With the system out of the Chamber it can also happen that the winner gets more seats in a college where he has fewer votes than in a college where he has more. The amendment we have proposed splits the link between the number of elected members and the number of members of the college. It can be done because the important thing, according to our Constitution, is that it does not change the total number of elected members within the constituency itself. I have already said about the barrier prize and the coalition prize. On this point we have tabled amendments which refer the barrier threshold to 4, 4.5 and 5%. One final remark, and then I'm silent, concerns the null votes. We have tabled a sub-amendment which greatly reduces the discretion of the seat presidents in the cancellation of ballots. We have inserted the principle that any further signs than those allowed on the card cannot question the clear will of the voter or affect the validity of the vote, unless the intention to cancel the card is manifest: it is a sort of reversal of the burden of proof. In addition, we have listed a number of different voting methods than the canonical one which in any case make the list voting valid, because I believe that the interest of the legislator, but also of the possible presidents of the seat, is to try to maintain the validity of the vote where it is clear the intention of the citizen-elector. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, and I am clearly addressing you and the Government, we are still halfway there. If anyone thinks that the work of the reform of the electoral law is now over (as they say, there is the package ready), I think he is not doing a good job. Our commitment in these hours and these days will have to be to review under the magnifying glass everything that is still to be seen and everything that can be improved, always looking for the widest possible majority, because this I believe is the law of the laws, and it needs to be done with the broadest consensus. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u28	We greet the students of the Liceo Scientifico (scientific high school) (Ettore Majorana) in Orvieto, who are today visiting the Senate. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tonini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u30	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is right to recall in this Chamber of the Senate of the Republic, at the end of this broad debate on electoral reform, which, a month ago, on 17 December 2014, at the venerable age of 97, left us Maurice Duverger, perhaps the greatest French jurist and political scientist of the twentieth century, certainly Oltralpe one of the best connoisseurs and admirers of our country, to the point of accepting, between 1989 and 1994, the proposal of the then Italian Communist Party, which was becoming a Democratic Party of the Left, to represent Italy in the European Parliament. In 1988, Duverger had published a book titled provocative, "La nostalgia de l'impuissance" (The Nostalgia of Impuissance), in which he noted that Italy, from the fifties onwards, had replaced France, in the meantime landed at the Fifth Republic, as the leader of Europe of political impotence - Duverger wrote - defined by the inability to decide by the State. Instability contributes to this because governments do not have the time to complete their plans that their successors struggle to change without being able to bring them into port either. It has been more than a quarter of a century since Duverger published that book and even today Italy appears to be in the balance between the Europe of impotence, which we struggle so much to leave, and that of the decision, of which we would like so much, but we also hesitate, to join. Those who are right, even in the very interesting debate we have held in this House, recall the many electoral and institutional reforms that have been adopted over the past few years, which have mostly produced modest, sometimes disappointing results. However, these colleagues - at least this is my view - forget how laborious and contradictory the long history of the attempts to reform our democratic system has been, most of whom, contrary to what has been advocated in many parts of this House, have seen governments, with their parliamentary majorities, of course, as required in a parliamentary system based on the trusted circuit between the Chambers and the Government, and in a spirit of openness and dialogue with the oppositions, of course, all the more necessary when it comes to changing the rules of the game; but, precisely for this reason, with the necessary, indispensable political direction of governments. The first to attempt the way of electoral reform was, in the first republican legislature, as is well known, Alcide De Gasperi: it was remembered, even with some unprecedented regret from some colleagues. At the end of the first legislature, De Gasperi clearly saw the drift towards the democracy of impotence along which Italian democracy was moving and proposed to introduce into the proportional electoral law a majority prize for the coalition that had reached and exceeded 50% of the votes. It has been remembered that story of the law Scelba, renamed polemically by the oppositions of then "scam law," but it has been remembered only in part in our discussion, with a selective use, so to speak, of memory. It has not been recalled that that proposal, which later became a law, was submitted to Parliament by a Government, the De Gasperi Government, which came to a point where it would be unthinkable for us today and in any case excluded from all arrive: De Gasperi put the question of trust on his proposal for electoral reform. How can we say, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, that in the history of the Republic, until the arrival of the Renzi Government, the subject of electoral reform has always been a parliamentary competence in the neutrality of the Government? 11:38 a.m. (Tonini followed). De Gasperi and the Scelba law are not part of the history of the Republic? It will be said that an exception confirms the rule. No, gentlemen: this is the rule, not the exception; it is the rule in a democratic system that does not want to confuse the value of Parliament's centrality with the mortal danger of assemblyism. As you know, in 1953 De Gasperi won in Parliament but then lost in the country. The majority prize did not start because, by a handful of votes, the coalition around Christian Democracy did not reach an absolute majority. A few years later, in 1970, in the voice "Forms of government" of the Encyclopedia of Law, one of the most authoritative Italian constitutionalists, who was also our esteemed colleague, Leopoldo Elia, argued that in the political history of post-war Italy the following must be distinguished: In a period of 1948-1953 (or English parliamentaryism) in which the degasperian leadership was very similar to that accepted in the British system; and a later period in which the functioning of political institutions would be closer and closer to the modules of the Fourth French Republic. But it is clear that with respect to the period 1948-1953 the next much longer one usually appears in comparison to the exception and, above all, it is impossible to limit government instability to transitional stages. In short, after the failure of the degasperian attempt to give a small majority twist to our parliamentary system, Italy enters fully into what Duverger called "the Europe of impotence" and, indeed, becomes its leader. It will only be after the breakup of 1989, with the fall of the Berlin Wall and the definitive solution of the communist question, that it will be possible to try in a credible way the way of reform of the political system, beginning with electoral law. And again, a government, the Ciampi Government, will play a leading role. It is on 6 May 1993, forty years after De Gasperi's attempt, when Carlo Azeglio Ciampi presented his programmatic statements to Parliament. "The Government" said President Ciampi "is about to implement the guidelines that were expressed in the popular referendums of 18 April." This is his first task. The clearly clear referendary indication, the awareness of the damage for every aspect of the country's life that would result from not providing, allow, require the Government to get out of what in other political seasons was understood as a neutrality due on electoral issues. The Government therefore intends to act as an active part of the implementation of the popular will expressed on 18 April, in accordance with the high constitutional policy guidelines already expressed on this point by the Head of State. The Government also declares its willingness to make a proposal to amend the electoral laws of the House and Senate and declares itself ready to present it shortly, which I will agree with the Presidents of the two Chambers, in relation to the state of parliamentary work. I do not think we need any further elements to argue, not only the legitimacy of the Government to play its natural role as a political orientation, even in electoral matters, but the constant historical nature of this principle, if we consider only the salient passages of our republican affair. Rather, what is most striking is the disconcerting relevance of President Ciampi's words, which is reflected in the challenges facing Parliament and the country today. We too are today, as twenty-two years ago, faced with the urgency of intervening on the electoral law, even if this time following not a popular ruling, but a decision of the Constitutional Court. We must intervene by keeping both of those sources firm: the address in the majority sense imprinted by the referendum of 1993 and the judgment n. 1 of 2014 of the Constitutional Court, without forgetting, to use again the words of Ciampi "the high address of institutional policy expressed by the Head of State" in our case Giorgio Napolitano, which I also want to thank and greet here as a new senator of law and life. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is precisely that high direction that underpins the political and government balances on which, after the election result of 2013, he was able to move and begin to operate this legislature. The combination of our current political situation and that of 1993 makes it inevitable to ask a question, which has been echoed several times in this House in the course of the debate. If, 22 years after the referendum and the 1993 electoral reform, Italy is still in the balance between the Europe of impotence and the Europe of decision-making, will it not be appropriate to change the way, rather than continue to pursue the old one? Our answer is that we must not change the path, but we must certainly change the pace. After two decades of partial reforms, in the continuous tension between contradictory pressures that have mostly produced mediocre compromises and in the undisputed domination of bad propaganda on good politics, the time has come for the completion of the transition, through an organic plan of democratic reform that embraces the electoral law, together with Part II of the Constitution, without neglecting the decisive node of party reform. This is the design, this is the commitment that gives meaning to the present legislature, which today is also faced with the challenge of identifying a successor worthy of the high legacy left by Napolitano. The plan for a comprehensive reform of the fundamental rules of our democratic life can be successfully completed, only if it sees the government's active, indispensable commitment, together with a spirit of openness, first of all on the part of the Government itself, really on the whole, without excluding any contribution in Parliament. On the other hand, this spirit of openness can be realized if we all accept the rule that, after discussion and confrontation, the time has to come for the decision, which can normally be unanimous and can only see the formation of majorities and minorities. Democracy is self-discipline, De Gasperi said; self-discipline - I mean - is also capable of self-contained forms of parliamentary struggle, avoiding extreme and repeated obstructionism that ends up killing confrontation, forcing regulatory measures of drastic simplification of complexity, and it is also self-control over the tones that are used, avoiding the easy recourse to the most extreme accusations, both on the ground of personal and political dignity and on that of democratic reliability. Building on the previous work, the Renzi Government has promoted a wide parliamentary confrontation around an organic proposal to reform our parliamentary democracy, aimed at promoting the completion of the transition of our system towards decision-making democracy, towards the Europe of decision-making. Compared to the original draft, parliamentary work is changing the content of the reforms in depth. It was and is so for the constitutional reform of bicameralism and Title V and so also for electoral reform. The amendments drawn up by President Finocchiaro and proposed by the majority leaders and, at least for some of them, by Forza Italia represent, according to the vast majority of the speakers in this broad debate, a significant improvement in the text launched by the House, on the basis of a more thoughtful consideration of the decision of the Constitutional Court, without questioning the heart of the electoral reform that we want: the guarantee, through the double turn combined with the overcoming on the constitutional level of bicameralism, of the direct investiture of the government by voters. This is the most important power; to say it with a scholar who was also our prestigious colleague, Gianfranco Pasquino: the royal scepter of the government decision is returned to the only true democratic prince who is the sovereign people. In this context, the 40% increase in the threshold for access to the first-round premium together with the 3% reduction in access to parliamentary representation represent changes of absolute reasonableness that make the text more mature and more European. The decision to move the majority prize on the list and no longer on the coalition aims to favour the formation of possible coalitions after the vote on the basis of real political-programmatic convergences around the winning party, while the constitution of lists instrumental to the conquest of the prize can and will have to be discouraged by acting on parliamentary regulations, through rules of disincentive to the fragmentation of the Groups. That remains the crux of the selection of Members. On this point the Democratic Party has long gained a widely shared unitary position (it has long meant many years): the clear preferability of the majority uninomial college, better if in double turn. The Democratic Party is united on this point, but it is also only: it has been seen in the House and has been reviewed in the Senate; therefore it was necessary to seek a different solution within the various options allowed by the Court's judgment. The text of the Chamber had chosen the short blocked list, legitimized by the sentence as it could guarantee the knowledge of the chosen one by the elector. The Committee's amendment instead proposes the mixed solution, even explicitly provided for in the Court's judgment: a part of the elected with preferences and a part of the blocked list method. It is, of course, a compromise solution, which has been largely preferred by the vast majority of the speakers in the debate. Only a small minority of speakers - I think - asked for all Members to be elected with preference; most supported the preference of the mixed system. Of course, the mixed system can be organized in many ways, which can also be very different, but always united by a characteristic, that of being a compromise between different needs. And the last thing that makes sense in politics is to put in a compromise unsurpassed issues of principle, as I have heard from some colleagues. The solution proposed by the amendment presents lights and shadows, like any compromise proposal. The main light is the recognizability of those who are elected: limiting to the leader only the indication printed on the card, it is evident that every citizen knows perfectly who is voting, when voting for that party. The main shadow, in the eyes of some colleagues, is the mobility of the relationship between the elected and the capilist, but it is a mobility that concerns only the minority forces, since the party that will win the elections - and therefore will win the majority prize and express the Government and the President of the Council - will certainly elect more than two thirds of its Members with the preferences. As for minority forces, it is not possible to predict with certainty this report, which will in any case be inversely proportional to the fragmentation of the opposition itself. With one or two major opposition forces, it is desirable that it be, even in the minority a significant proportion of elected would be chosen with preferences. On the other hand, alternative proposals to that of the amendment also present major drawbacks, the main of which is the revenge of the blocked list, which, although short, is certainly far less transparent for the electoral citizen of the single mechanism of the leader. On these aspects, the debate cannot but be open and it would be incomprehensible to any opening closure. Whatever choice you decide to make, it will still be questionable, to live in a secular and not ideological way. What matters is to choose together, bearing in mind the hierarchy of values in the field: on the one hand, the necessity and urgency of a reform that responds to the judgment of the Court and to the expectations of the citizens; on the other hand, the fall in love for this or that detail. Many Members have rightly mentioned the serious signs of disaffection to politics and to the same elections coming from broad and growing layers of Italian society. The answer to this grave malaise cannot be yet another postponement and yet another missed opportunity, which would have the only effect of exacerbating mistrust in politics and widening the distance between citizens and institutions. The answer can only be in the completion, now and now, of the reforms. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u31	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u34	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I am glad that the PD used part of the time we had made available by withdrawing the speeches, but of course if I had known that it would all be used by Tonini... [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u35	Say what you want to ask, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u36	AIROLA (M5S). I would like to ask, in accordance with Rule 96 of our Rules of Procedure, that we do not proceed to the examination of the Rules of Procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is At the end of the Minister's reply, he will be able to make this request. I call the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I share with you the Government's thoughts at the end of our long debate, even with a little emotion, in moving us into the heart of electoral reform. The emotion is reinforced by the exceptional circumstance that our debate and intervention take place in the aftermath of the resignation of the President of the Republic, to whom I am sure my thoughts and thanks go, not only on behalf of the Government, but also on a personal basis. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]] While waiting for him to sit at the benches of the Senate, from which he will certainly not lack his authoritative voice, as a Government we can only remember how the action of the President of the Republic - turned tirelessly and constantly to invite Parliament, since its re-election, to a path of constitutional reforms - was also the polar star of our activity of these months. That is why the debate that took place in this House is important and of course valuable, but also strategic, precisely because it took place after these resignations and at the end of the second term of office of the President of the Republic, who has focused his action, since the previous mandate, on the need to rewrite together the rules of our democracy. This debate on the reform of the electoral law is also a valuable opportunity for the entire political class to respond, in some way, also to the humiliation that we are all living with an electoral law that is not a child of the popular will, but of a sentence of the Constitutional Court. I believe that we cannot allow ourselves to vote again without having legislated, without Parliament playing its role and giving the country a new electoral law. [[Senator Bulgarelli's comments.]] We must write the electoral law as widely and in common as possible, but we must not resign ourselves to the idea that the electoral law has been handed over to us by the Constitutional Court and that we as Parliament do not intervene on the rules of the game. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] In March 2014, the Chamber approved the Italicum after eight years of inconclusive discussions and after months of discussions that had not led to a concrete result. It was approved by a very large majority, a majority that exceeds what the Government supports, and I believe that this is a value when we write together the rules that apply to everyone. A good text that has many positive elements has been fired from the House. Surely one of these, perhaps the main one, is the one that with Italicum guarantees, for the first time, a certainty about the winner and a certainty of the result. To have the certainty of the winner also means to have the certainty of who is responsible for the five years of legislature for those who do or do not do things and, in a country in which to identify the person responsible at all levels it seems an open-minded dream, to have an electoral law that gives a certain responsibility to the government and the majority that supports it, in my opinion, has an undeniable value. [[Comments of Senator Bottici]] It has an undeniable value even if related to the experiences of other European countries that, in reality, govern through very broad coalitions. I am thinking of Germany, Austria, the United Kingdom and Sweden. I do not share some of the speeches that have seen this as a value. I think it is important that there should be a proposal to the voters and that citizens should choose who should govern them before further alliances are formed, unless this is due to laws that do not work well. This is the objective of improvement that we are proposing with this reform. I believe that through this new electoral reform in the coming months we will move on from the reforms that Europe is asking of us to the reforms that Europe is copying us, precisely because of the undeniable progress we are making. Surely the electoral law that came out of the House had some room for criticism in the following months. In-depth discussions have been made, disputes have been raised and suggestions for changes have been made. That's why we are going to this passage to the Senate with a willingness on the part of the Government to some changes on some points, precisely because in writing together the rules nobody claims to have the certainty and truth in his pocket. That is why in the debate here in the Senate, in the Commission and in these days, we have come to share the hypotheses of change, which were then presented by the majority group leaders and which had already been presented in the Commission by President Finocchiaro. The hypothesis of modification leads to improvements compared to the text approved by the Chamber on some qualifying points. First of all, in my opinion, there is the award of the prize to the list. This means ensuring greater stability: no one will be able to say that they cannot carry out their own programme for the divisions within the coalition, as has sometimes been the case in the past. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] But it also means changing sides' faces. We're aware of that. It is a substantial change in our electoral system that will lead the parties to reflect on themselves and how they propose themselves to the electorate. I remind the senators of the 5 Star Movement that the proposal to award the prize to the list came precisely from the 5 Star Movement in recent months and the streaming of the encounter between the 5 Star Movement and the Democratic Party is proof that precisely the 5 Star Movement has advanced that proposal. (12 p.m.) (Following Mr Boschi, Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament). I hope that this openness and availability will be appreciated and, therefore, also that this element of novelty will be approved by the 5 Star Movement that requested it. In addition to the list prize, surely a step forward is the identification of a different system of selection of candidates and, therefore, of choice by voters. We know that in Italicum there were very small plurinomial colleges, which therefore guaranteed the knowledge of the elected, in line with what the Constitutional Court indicated. We know, however, that doubts have been raised about this model. These concerns have been accepted, now imagining a different model, which, through a vote at the head of colleges always very small at territorial level, always guarantees this element of direct knowledge of the citizens with respect to the elected, but at the same time allows, through the system of preferences - with double gender preference, combined with the possibility of applying in several colleges - to bring more than 60% of Members to Parliament, thanks to the vote of preference and therefore with a direct choice of citizens. [[Comments of the Divine Senator.]] For those who preferred the model of colleges, this certainly is not enough and obviously not enough even for those who preferred the model of the only preferences. However, I believe that the fact that we have reached an improvement agreement in this respect is also an undeniable step forward. Another element that we are going to change in this passage in the Senate is the thresholds: both the 40% threshold, for access to the majority prize, and the 3% threshold, for access to Parliament. This amendment certainly corresponds to a need for simplification and a need for representation, but we cannot fail to note that it accepts the requests that some parties have made since the House of Deputies and those that some groups and some opposition senators have repeated several times in this House, even when we were addressing the issue of constitutional reforms: so, although not on the agenda, this is a subject that has been raised several times during the debate on constitutional reforms. I believe that intellectual honesty would like this step forward - i.e. the transposition of such requests - to be appreciated in some way, even on the part of the oppositions that led this instance. A qualifying element is the prediction of gender quotas: gender representation in our party is a choice that we have already made, with candidacies of 50% female and 50% male, but that now becomes a standard system, which applies to all and is no longer a choice exclusively of our party. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]] We have done so with the double gender preference, with the alternation in the submission of applications and, in any case, with the anti-discrimination rule for blocked leaders. I believe that this is an important step forward in a country that, especially in recent months, also thanks to the work of this Government, is trying to enhance the skills and abilities of women, in key roles in our country, not only in politics, but also in public administration. There is no doubt that another instance has also been taken, which has come from some groups, concerning the deferred effectiveness of the electoral law. I have already said this in this House and I repeat this: in my opinion we will use this new electoral law in 2018, because the government programme remains a legislative programme and because we must abandon the bad habit, all of it in Italy, of the early vote and the premature end of the legislature. So we're gonna get to 2018. Nevertheless, the request was accepted to defer the effectiveness of this electoral law to 1 July 2016, which was carried out in a very pressing way also by one part of the opposition, who today told us not to be afraid to go to the vote, but who certainly insisted that this electoral law could not be immediately applicable. I therefore believe that from this debate there has certainly emerged an openness to confrontation and an appreciation of the contributions made by the Chamber of Deputies, but above all in the passage to the Senate. Many of the alternative proposals put forward have been accepted, but it is obvious that we cannot imagine that continuous requests for change will become a way of blocking the adoption of the electoral law, because it would not be serious towards citizens and also with regard to international public opinion. We have to give the country a new electoral law and we have to do it now. We have before us a new electoral law which has in itself the element of clarity, with few rules, clear and certain, and which is an important step forward. An electoral law that in a physiological way intersects with the path of constitutional reforms, but that is not subordinate or conditioned by them. An electoral law that, however, also represents an important element of change, the proof that you can get out of the spell of immobilism also in our country. An electoral law that is part of a much broader reform process: the reform of the Constitution, which we discussed and which you approved in the Senate and which we are now discussing in the House; the reform of the public administration; of the tax system; of the school; of the third sector, of civil justice. We know that only with the process of reform that we are pursuing, probably the most impressive and fastest in republican history, can Italy regain its European and not only European role. And this is the mission that we must have as Italians. This electoral law will lead the parties to seriously question themselves, even within themselves, precisely because it gives citizens the opportunity to choose parties. And we in the Democratic Party are not afraid to confront the citizens' vote. [[Comments from Senators Cioffi and Bulgarelli.]] Even the results reported in the European elections a few months ago - having reached and exceeded 40%, as did not happen since 1958 in this country - surely secure the Democratic Party... [[Comments of the Divine Senator.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u38	Divine Senator, let the Minister speak, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u39	Mr Boschi, Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament. ...from any alleged fear of confrontation with the citizens and with the electorate. We have an electoral law that provides for thresholds that allow representation and the right to stand even for smaller parties, but not veto powers by smaller parties. We have an electoral law that certainly puts an end to the incision and destruction of the consociativism [[Ironic applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] , an electoral law that we write together for these very purposes. We have an electoral law that can give back a role to politics. Politics is returning to Brussels, returning to discussions, to the formation of mayors, to local administrators. You can come back here too, to our house, with few clear and simple rules. The electoral law is the challenge of change, it embodies this challenge. For these reasons I am convinced - also because of the work done in these months and how I have learned about senators in their experience and determination - that the Senate will not miss this opportunity. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u42	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, pursuant to Rule 96 of our Rules of Procedure, I would ask you not to move on to the Rules of Procedure. I do not repeat the reasons for this request, which has already been widely expressed by my Group. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, a representative for each Group may speak on the proposal not to move to the examination of the articles for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u45	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, the reason why we are asking for the non-transition to the articles of this law has already been represented in all the speeches under discussion, not only by our Group, but also by the others. With this law the so-called safeguard clause has been introduced, that is the proposal - that from what the Minister has said seems already established - to fix the entry into force of the measure even with a precise date: July 2016, assuming that for that date the constitutional reform will be approved. It is therefore assumed that the referendum - guaranteed by Minister Boschi, I remember - will have that outcome. I dare not imagine what could happen if the referendum did not go as it should. We will simply have an electoral law that will find its application in July 2016, but perhaps not with a monocameralism, as hoped by this majority. We will therefore have an electoral law that does not exist and applies to an institutional structure that is not compatible; perhaps we might have to do another electoral law again, in the other year and a half, just because this Government, perhaps, until 2018, wants to keep us engaged in this. The Minister was very careful to talk about balloting. She kept her distance from the speech and treated him a little 'en passant. The ballot, in fact, cancels that threshold you were talking about: it cancels the threshold of 40%, above which you should give a prize, which would not be below. What do we do instead? The ballot is introduced in order to be able to give the prize anyway to a party that should get 15 or 20 percent of the preferences. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crimes, I'm interrupting you to ask the senators to lower their voices because you're talking too loudly. CRIMI (M5S). I would like to represent a possible scenario, even based on surveys, which are so dear to the parties at present. I am referring to a poll that could include a ballot between the Democratic Party (which could reach 30-35 percent) and the Five Star Movement (attested between 20 and 21%). Maybe the 5 Star Movement wins the ballot, because this is also possible: we know that in the framework of the ballot - we have verified it in almost all the municipalities in which we went to the ballot - in the end there is a tendency to reward those who try to keep away from the struggles of division of armchairs between parties that has happened so far. This is the picture in which we find ourselves and move. We call for the non-version to the examination of articles in particular for the procedure that has been adopted. We are here, in this House, without rapporteur, which has led to the imposition of regulations, in this case - fortunately - in the sense of greater participation. A forced force that forced President Grasso to have to open up the terms to subservient some amendments, which, otherwise, would not have been subeminable in that they were tabled and to be accepted as they were. I am not saying this for the oppositions (whose amendments I already know will be treated a bit like a piece of paper), but for those members of the majority who could not participate in the construction of the amendments tabled by their group leaders, but who would perhaps have wanted to make a contribution without being able to do so. We call for the non-passionate examination of the articles because, at this moment, it is essential to secure the electoral law in order to guarantee this country to go to the vote immediately if conditions should occur. The Minister says the government will arrive until 2018, which is the end of his mandate. Too bad that this Government was not elected to remain in office until 2018, but it is the result of a series of sidekicks, agreements and mischiefs of all kinds. This government has not been elected and I tend to repeat it. The concept of the elected government comes out in this electoral law, with which, with the ballot, in fact, the premierate is introduced. That is what Senator Quagliariello said before, when he said that, with this draft electoral law, we are artificially introducing an institutional framework in this country. An institutional structure that includes a de facto elected Premier, the mayor of Italy, and that provides the possibility to go to the ballot. The ballot is usually planned for the election of monocratic positions, when elected, for example, the mayor or the President of the Region; that is, for a direct election, not for the election of a legislative assembly representative of the Italian people. We believe this to be an inverse act. I'd like you to memorize this thing well: it's an inverse act. You are changing the institutional structure of this country without changing the Constitution, because you did not introduce the premierate in fact into the Constitution. You are artificially introducing it by modifying the instrument of election of the representatives of the people; and this is an exversive act. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Unfortunately, we will not see the consequences now. The consequences will come after five, six, eight or ten years, as we are now seeing the consequences of Porcellum. When the Porcellum was voted, apart from the preference speech, they were more or less all in agreement. In the end you voted for it, so there was a majority; it was chosen by this Parliament, perhaps not by all of you, but it was voted by a large part of the people present. He voted for nine years with the Porcellum, which paid off. Today we are all discussing the fact that it is a law to be removed; the Constitutional Court itself has declared it unconstitutional. Well, the consequences of this new law will be paid for and we will see them in nine or ten years' time. Unfortunately, many of you will no longer be in this House, but they will enjoy their pension, their holidays or their liquidation. So there will no longer be anyone to answer the Italians of the choices made today. This is something that should motivate you to reason with. We therefore call for the articles not to be examined and for the debate on the electoral law to be postponed to the Commission, starting from the points we have already arrived at, hence from a basic text which can already contain, in its basic wording, the starting elements of the text, which was also fired with the majority's amendments. I would like to add one more point, concerning the form in which this text was proposed. I do not know if you have had the opportunity to read it: it is totally illegible, because a single article in fact contains all the electoral law, in its turn divided into paragraphs, letters, subpoenas and sub-letters. This is the electoral law we're gonna fire. A law that in fact is materially illegible, since the Government has also boasted in front of the Italians of wanting to make laws that are readable. The common sense and logic would like us, Madam President, to realize that the measure must return to the Commission, starting from this text, so that we can reason and work to present each one of the observations and amendments, in particular by favouring the members of the same majority who want to intervene to amend it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u48	DIVINE (LN-Aut). We don't understand why Minister Boschi does her replica and then runs away. [[Applause from the Groups, LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-MovX and Senators Gambaro and Vacciano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u49	Divine Senator, we're discussing the non passage to the articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u50	DIVINE (LN-Aut). It may be of minimal interest for the Minister to hear how this part-session is closed. We must say that, despite the young age of the Minister, we have noticed an incredible dose of nerve in coming to support his thesis. In here everyone belongs to a political area, to a party, to a coalition. We also know how parliamentary games are played. Minister Boschi has a specific task: we compare it to the assistant who has to replace the ordinary professor in managing some of the events, including the "exams" of this House. It may not bring direct responsibilities, but I am thinking of the emphasis with which it has come to support enormous falsehoods: it said that Members will finally be chosen. Gentlemen, we have been saying for 20 days that the flaw in this law is that it brings all the worst of Porcellum without improving anything at all. Nobody's gonna elect anyone. More than two thirds of MEPs will be chosen on the basis of the nomination criteria, listing the list according to the list number, and preferences will only be taken on a residual basis. We cannot pass on a truth just because the Minister has said it three or four times: a lie said three or four times remains a lie said three or four times; it is not a truth. [[Applause from LN-Aut, Misto-MovX and Senators Gambaro and Vacciano]] The Minister then has to explain to us, or should have explained to us, why all the secretaries of the Democratic Party, when they presented themselves to the primaries of their party, have guaranteed that they want a law that finally gave the pen back to the Italians and, once in Parliament, they legislate in a diametrically opposite way. Why do PD say "power to the voter" and in fact the law says the exact opposite? Then, coming back to the bomb: there is no good electoral law and bad electoral law. There is no good electoral system and no less good one. Parliaments decide contingently at the moment whether it is appropriate to adopt a law that gives greater stability to governments or more representativeness to the country. It's the story that determines it. In our country in twenty years we have changed the electoral system four times; what is the best? No way. Majoritarian systems strengthen governance: are they preferable? Yes, in times of crisis they are preferable. Pure proportional systems bring to Parliament the mirror of the country. They are the most democratic, but sometimes they are the least chosen: there is therefore no good electoral law and a bad one. What we cannot, as an opposition, make this majority understand, quite woody about this aspect, is that the electoral law cannot be the dress made to measure when a law is issued, because even those who issue it, even the majority party can lose weight, can fatten and when the electoral law is applied it is no longer good for the party that supported it or wanted it at that particular historical moment. [[Applause from LN-Aut, Misto-MovX and Senators Gambaro and Vacciano]] The electoral law is done for general interests and not for party or coalition interests. In any case, let us remember that fateful word: freedom. We have worked, we have written and read these days, starting from what has happened in France, how important freedom of thought and expression is, but we do not give freedom of expression and thought to the Italian electorate from now on. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Misto-MovX Groups]] This is serious after writing countless things about freedom of the press and thought that touched French newspapers or magazines. We can also say or repeat for the umpteenth time that, in comparison, the famous old memory scam law is even outdated. We are talking about a law that allows to bring only one hegemony party into Parliament, only one, and that that party, to reform implemented (together with the reform of the Senate), adding the representation of the Senate with the representation of the majority in the House, will be able to express alone the President of the Republic; the only balance that could arise within a democratic system and, with the successive nominations of Parliament plus the presidential ones, will appoint all the supervisory bodies, the highest organs: from the Constitutional Court [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Misto-MovX Groups]] , to the CSM, from the judiciary essentially to the highest Supreme Courts of Justice. There's no balance at all. We know all the broom games or anything. Well, we can never vote for a "scam law" that allows that party that, by the will of the Italians, but perhaps for a small difference of votes, exceeds the second party to take over all the fates of the country, being able to insinuate it on the other side. It could also be a party that just exceeds 25% and wins the ballot only for a waste; well, that party would have the fortunes in hand and could degrade the entire other political part of the country. All this is not possible, so we will vote firmly on the non passage to the article of this which calls the law scam is still little. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Misto-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u53	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I would like to speak briefly because the arguments we are going to vote for are the same ones that I and other colleagues in my group have been able to explain several times during the general debate these days. I share a passage made earlier by Senator Crimes. The basic point concerns a fact that, from our point of view, would have been much more correct and expendable, even in the eyes of the country if, at the time of the discussion on constitutional reform, a reasoning had been introduced on how to imagine the mechanism of the change of election of the Prime Minister in our country. I have already said this in general debate and I want to say this today: for our part there is no foreclosure to the hypothesis that we can change the Constitution and imagine mechanisms of direct election. However, these mechanisms, in all the countries of the world in which they exist, provide for a mechanism of weights and counterweights; therefore, before the direct election, a mechanism of counterweights is foreseen that solidifies the democracy of the countries that use it. The distortion of this electoral law, in conjunction with constitutional reform, is that here the mechanism of direct election is introduced surreptitiously, exactly with the mechanism of balloting. However, since that ballot will not concern the Prime Minister's indication, but the election of the Legislative Assembly, which will then have to give him confidence, there is an institutional mess. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, if I say this in these terms, but I have the impression that if I had expressed these arguments 20 years ago to my teacher of constitutional law of the time at the Faculty of Law of Naples, I would have failed to say: "Come back next month, because you are not clear about some of the elements concerning the structure of the Italian Constitution and the election mechanism". [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Groups and the Roman Senators Maurizio, Bencini, Casaletto and De Pin.]] This is a very, very sensitive point, and that is why we have tabled a number of amendments, which we will then present, concerning exactly the following points: majority prize, ballot, Premier's indication on the list. They are mechanisms that surreptitiously introduce certain elements which, on the other hand, consistently, this Parliament should have discussed at the time of the constitutional reform. I insist that this debate is legitimate and I think it is legitimate that in a country like ours the problem should be raised, as the President-in-Office of the Council says, of knowing, on the evening of the elections, who has won and who has lost. But in order to do this we must change the constitutional mechanisms. To act simply by changing the electoral law introduces from my point of view an element of great difficulty with which we will deal in the coming years. I am sorry that Mr Boschi has left, because he has once again insisted on the issue of the safeguard clause. On this too, ladies and gentlemen, we must speak the language of truth. The safeguard clause would have made sense if it had been linked not, as has been foreseen, to a date (on 1 July 2016), but if it had been linked to the constitutional reform. On this the objection is all too simple and I also tell Senator Crimes. It is not that the referendum, which will conclude the path of constitutional reform, was kindly granted to us by the government: the referendum will be held - we probably mean the same - because this reform will not be approved with two thirds of the parliamentary vote, just as it happened in the first step we did in the Senate a few months ago. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Misto-MovX Groups and Senator Bencini]] So there will be a referendum. This idea that the referendum will automatically go in the direction of what the government thinks, and not of what the opposition thinks, is not simply a bit presumptuous by the government, but frankly it is also a way of considering sovereignty, popular will, a second-floor topic. Since the people's will is, of course, and fortunately, under the conditions of denying the majority of Parliament, I did not quite understand - and I would have liked to hear from the Minister a reply on this - what will happen if we are in this situation. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a school condition, it is a possible condition. If this electoral law comes into force on 1 July 2016, but if, in the meantime, the confirmed referendum on constitutional reform has seen the electorate fail, I have not quite understood what will happen. Of course one thing will happen: the political legitimacy of this Parliament, which is already in the balance, will have lost it completely in the eyes of the country, as is well understood, because we would have made a real mess. Finally - and in this case too, let us not turn around the words - with the mechanism of the blocked capilists it is not true that having transformed the majority prize, and having moved it from the coalition to the list, immediately and surely simplifies the Italian political framework. I would like to say on the premise that we will vote for the amendment because we believe, in any case, that, in the face of coalitions that have been overcome by historical events, we can obviously not fall in love with a political framework that no longer exists. But there is one fundamental point: since it is not by chance that we are talking - and I say this also to President Zanda, who is a careful person - about prizes on the list and not to parties, where it is written, colleagues, that we cannot give life to a masked coalition, which is actually a listone, so that three, four, five or six parties are running as a list under a single symbol, as has happened in the past years, in the history of this country? Here too, we are faced not with a case of school, but with a concrete fact that has taken place. Evidently, because this thing is obviously widely possible, and it is even more possible precisely because of the fact that the capilists are blocked (since of course a small party, in order to enter the listone, can contract a small share of blocked capilists and can be determined exactly the same mechanism that triggered with the Porcellum), this solution does not solve the main argument of Minister Boschi used a few minutes ago, according to which this mechanism will avoid fragmentation within the coalition government. This will happen if the PD wins, but it has been remembered that, when you make an electoral law, you cannot think about what will happen to the next round, what will happen on July 1, 2016 or 2018, but you should think about what will happen in the next fifteen or twenty years. If we think simply about the most concrete result that can be achieved when we go to vote next time, and we forget that electoral laws should be worth decades and not a few months, in my opinion, we make a big mistake. For all these reasons, we are going to vote in favour of not going to the articles. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-MovX Groups and the Senators Bencini and Nugnes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u54	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal not to proceed to the debate on the Rules of Procedure. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles made by Senator Airola. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, subject to agreements between the groups, I would like to inform you that this afternoon's sitting will take place even beyond the planned closing order, in order to allow the amendments referred to in Article 1 to be explained. The authors of the amendments will be asked to speak in alphabetical order on a list already distributed. The afternoon session will not take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u56	We proceed to the examination of the articles of the bill no. 1385. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain. Colleagues, it is understood that the senators who are not present in this Chamber are not giving up the explanation of the amendments to which they are signatories.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u57	Madam President, I would like to give up the explanation of the amendments, because they illustrate themselves.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u60	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask you a question which I believe all citizens will ask themselves. We made a certain journey, working last 20 December a whole night until dawn, doing a Conference of the Leaders, to get now to desecrate the afternoon session of today.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u61	Maybe I wasn't clear. What I have said means that the sitting is now going on all the time with the explanation of the amendments, so let us move on with our work. CRIMI (M5S). I guess we'll continue tomorrow, Saturday and Sunday. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We will continue to explain the amendments to Article 1 for as long as necessary. CRIMI (M5S). So we will continue tomorrow, Saturday and Sunday, as everyone expects, given the rush before Christmas.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u62	Madam President, I am speaking only to announce that I am giving up the illustration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u63	Like my colleague, Mr Pegorer, I would also like to give up the amendments which I signed first.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u64	Madam President, I believe that the amendments we have tabled are quite clear, so I shall not present the amendments at my first signature.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u65	Madam President, I would also like to give up the explanation of the amendments, after having already clarified the meaning and meaning of the amendments. However, I reserve the right to speak during the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u66	Let us now proceed with the presenters in alphabetical order. I call Senator Augello. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is meant to be reunited to speak. I call Senator Baptist.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u67	Madam President, I would also like to give up the explanation of vote and reserve the right to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u68	I call Senator Bencini.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u69	Madam President, I give up the illustration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u70	I call Senator Bignami. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is meant to be reunited to speak. I call Senator Biinella. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is meant to be reunited to speak. Senator Bonfrisco has already indicated that she will not comment on the amendments. I call Senator Bruni. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is meant to be reunited to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u73	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, I understand that no one is going to explain the amendments, while the House is emptying itself. Wouldn't it be easier to ask who wants to intervene? [[Applause from Senator Calderoli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u74	I'm sorry for the applause. Let us say that the procedure we are following is much more correct. Therefore, anyone who wants to give up his speech says so when he is called, partly because it could happen - I am telling you so - that the first signatory renounces the illustration, while the other signatories of the amendment want to explain it instead. CRIMI (M5S). I still see a lot of interest! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We caught him. I call Senator Bruno.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u75	Madam President, just now, in my speech in the general debate, I have already explained the amendments that I think are of particular attention, so I would refer entirely to what has already been said. I would, however, like to make a request. After you have made the call of all those who are registered to explain the amendments to Rule 1, immediately after this House finishes its work or goes on? CASTALDI (M5S). Go ahead, you've already said that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bruno, I've been distracted. I'm sorry. BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). I have already explained the amendments during my speech in the general debate, which took place not later than 20 minutes ago, and I therefore turn to those amendments and sub-amendments in full. I see that there is a list of those who have tabled amendments to Article 1, to whom you are asking, in alphabetical order, whether or not they wish to speak for the purposes of the illustration. I ask you, then, a question also to better organize our work and our occupations: after you have appealed with regard to the explanation of the amendments to Article 1, do you suspend the work or move forward and with what criterion?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u76	At that point, after the explanations of the amendments and sub-amendments to Article 1, the sitting will be removed and work resumed next Monday. CRIMI (M5S). Why don't we continue with Article 2? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Because that is what we have already verified. CRIMI (M5S). Because they didn't agree! Because last night you didn't reach the agreement in the Democratic Party! Let's tell the Italians that on December 20 we worked unnecessarily! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, it's not. I answered the question. Please, Senator Crimes. I call Senator Buemi. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is meant to be reunited to speak. I call Senator Campanella. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is meant to be reunited to speak. I call Senator Cociancich. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is meant to be reunited to speak. I call Senator Collina. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is meant to be reunited to speak. I call Senator Corsini. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is meant to be reunited to speak. I call Senator Cotti. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is meant to be reunited to speak. I call Senator Crimes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u77	Madam President, I merely say that what we are witnessing is truly an unworthy spectacle for the Italian people. It's really shameful. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It's a joke, ma'am. We feel fooled by ourselves and the citizens behind us. We feel like we're being teased. I repeat that there was the race to the Christmas tweet so that we could say that the electoral law had been framed. Now we are here, it is Thursday morning: it is not even 1 p.m. and everyone is already at home, because that is what is happening here in this House. We have to go on! If there was that rush in December - let me say this and then I shut up - we would have continued work on Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday. [[Comments of Senator Cardinals]] There's no more that rush, because they didn't reach the deal. I do not want to explain the amendments, because it is a joke, Madam President. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] AIROLA (M5S). Let's see how funny it is. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please don't interrogate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u78	Please, colleagues. This House remains called, because - in my opinion - there must be the power to explain the many amendments and sub-amendments tabled in Article 1. I say that because that was the intent. AIROLA (M5S). But it is not a question of the Presidency, it is a question of politics! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I was just motivating, to say that these were the elements.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u81	TONINI (PD). Mr President, I would just like to say a word to Mr Crimes. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] BULGARRELLI (M5S). What does Senator Tonini do about? Are you setting out the amendments? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, please, you're all gonna talk. I also gave the floor to Senator Marton, who asked me, so I can give it to Senator Tonini. I'm just saying this because my list has been interrupted. [[Protests from the M5S Group. Senator Crimi's comments.]] TONINI (PD). May I speak, Senator Crimes? I would like to comment on the order of business. But according to you, CASTALDI (M5S). The gag! AIROLA (M5S). Make it look better to shut up! Shame on you! TONINI (PD). Yes, I am more likely to say that none of us can say that we can vote without the dossiers of the amendments, or not? Isn't that right? I think so, and so the reasonable agreement between gentlemen... [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] One thing is to explain, one thing is to vote. AIROLA (M5S). That's not true! Tell that to the presidency. You're clowns! SANTANGELO (M5S). Stay here and work, shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Tonini, please. TONINI (PD). I would like to conclude, Madam President, because we are in the Senate and I believe that those who have had the floor have the right to speak. Is that clear? [[Live, repeat protests from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). You're a clown! I'm telling you, now, the amendments! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, please. TONINI (PD). We have the right to vote having the dossiers of amendments! AIROLA (M5S). I'm asking to talk. You're making me talk now, Madam President!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u82	I now give you the floor, Senator Airola, but I would like to ask everyone, since I will make everyone speak, to keep in mind that we had come to a point and that Senators Marton and Tonini have asked for the floor. We are at a time when anyone who wants - but it is not an obligation - can explain the amendments and the sub-amendments to Article 1. The issue that we all shared is the following (and I say this because, in my opinion, there is always a great deal of transparency in this area): we had all chosen to be able to present the amendments together. SANTANGELO (M5S). But without files? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. However, we could explain the amendments and speak to the House, knowing that we had chosen them together. CRIMI (M5S). Which Chamber, Madam President? PRESIDENT. - The debate is That's another thing, Senator Crimes. Listen, just to be fair. We decided that the vote would start on Tuesday morning, which is shared, that's all. I also believe that it is freedom and - I add - responsibility for the choice of each one to explain the amendments he has tabled: we choose to be able to explain them or not. I call you, Senator Airola.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u83	Madam President, on the question of fasciculation we agreed, and that is clear. On the question that we can now fascinate and work tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and Sunday, since you were in such a hurry to do so, we obviously do not agree, because you have to go home instead of working in this Parliament. Here's the thing. You are ridiculous: you have incardinated this bill at 7 a.m. and now, as happened then, you go home to make your own! That shows how much you care about the nation. You're clowns! Make the chickens laugh! Shame on you, Renzi puppets! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Mr Fornaro (PD). Monday you were twelve!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u86	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). In fact, Madam President, Mr Vacciano and I were wondering how we could listen to the illustration of amendments which, in fact, we do not have before us. We were wondering, therefore, how the possibility, even at this stage, of realizing what we are going to vote is being protected. Illustration of the amendments is certainly essential in order to make it clear to the individual senators in particular what corrective measures can be and what influence they have on the whole, but once again this possibility is taken away from us. In fact, Madam President, no one protects the real understanding of what we are going to vote on, which acquaints us with the idea that this path, which is being spelled out as a path that actually wanted to involve everyone, is unfortunately not and this responsibility if it is to be taken as its duty. [[Senator Bulgarelli points out that she wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u87	Then I give you the floor, Senator Bulgarelli, but perhaps it is better to clarify again what the procedures are. This is the stage in the explanation of the amendments, during which the authors are entitled, if they think so, to explain and the House has the right and the duty, if it considers it, to listen. This can be done, not on the whole of the amendments, because those who have signed and tabled them are able to explain them better than anyone else. That was the reason. Then you can remain of different opinions. [[Senator Mussini's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u90	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Madam President, first of all I would like to remind myself that the right to fasciculation and to have the text is a right for this House. I would remind myself, first of all, that, during the votes on the stability law, we did not have the text at our disposal and the person sitting there, President Grasso, said in the meantime to vote on it because they would then rewrite it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is from the record of that day. It is true that it is a right, but let us remember from now on, please, that it is a right forever.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u91	In my opinion, it is always better to clarify things, so that they remain transparent: an account is the text on which we vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u92	BULGARRELLI (M5S). I remember it for them, for the next time we have to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u93	Senator Bulgarelli, we are, however, at the stage of the explanation of the amendments. If there had been the material condition for having them also fascicolati, knowing their number, it would have been more useful. I do not deny what you say, but we all felt that we could do this together. BULGARRELLI (M5S). We do not know what it is in this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there are those who want to explain the amendments, I would ask you to be able to move forward. [[Senator Endrizzi points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator Endrizzi, when I get to you, I give you the floor. Senator Cuomo has the right to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u94	I am not going to explain the amendment that I have tabled. I must say, however, that I find it somewhat embarrassing. I do not need to go home and I believe that work can be organised in a different way from what has been said in this House. ENDRIZZI (M5S). No, I'll talk then. CUOMO (PD). I find it somewhat embarrassing, because agreements between groups do not always facilitate the work of this House. It is clear that the Rules of Procedure and also, in some respects, the practice requires that we proceed with the fasciculation, particularly at the time of voting. It is clear, however, that the mass of the amendments is such that, without a fasciculation, it becomes difficult not only to explain, but above all to follow for colleagues who wish to do so. I am therefore aware of the tortuousness in which we have entered. I give up the illustration of the amendments, but I entrust to its authority and wisdom the ability to evaluate also what Senator Mussini said, which seemed common sense to me. Beyond the exploitation - it is clear that a Group politically believes that it wants to frame a law at a certain time, because it believes that it is accelerating some reforms, and that the number of amendments requires us to plan a bit different work - I believe that, with a bit of wisdom and common sense, we can facilitate the work of the senators and also the speed of the adoption of this law. I would like to give up the explanation of the amendments which we could, among other things, resume in the explanation of vote when we vote on the amendments. But, by relying on your wisdom and authority, I would ask you to consider a little better the organization of this work, beyond the agreements of the Groups. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator D'Adda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u95	I also give up the illustration, partly because after that we have a session of the Labour Commission and, therefore, it is not true that we all go home. MARTELLI (M5S). So, even Saturday and Sunday we find you here.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u96	We said that the meetings of the Commissions would be suspended so that the amendments could be explained and evaluated in this House. I would like to reiterate that here, because this is what is right. I call Senator De Petris.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u97	Madam President, as far as I am concerned, I would very much like to explain my amendments. It is clear that we cannot fail to stigmatize what has happened. I say this very quietly. Frankly, I am sorry that the Minister - often teaches us lessons in this House, and then leaves - is not here. Yesterday we asked for the suspension of the examination of the electoral law, with institutional reasons. As usual, we have been accused of being the ones who want to slow down and boycott jobs. Madam President, although it is not your responsibility, I say to you that perhaps it would have been better to say already yesterday, at the meeting of the Leaders, when we had asked this question, that there was not even technically the possibility of moving forward, because there were no dossiers of amendments. I realize that the offices have been working for a long time, that there are many amendments and so there is a difficulty. Perhaps yesterday, instead of always challenging all the demands we make, political common sense would have had to induce the majority leaders to accept our proposal, so that they could come to an examination in science and conscience, in the sense that we would all have the tools to do a serious job later if we wanted to do it. I understand that it is also difficult to put trust in electoral law - it may be that they apply to this too - but we cannot work as if, in fact, trust had been placed. At least the maxi amendment is tabled and is aware of it. It is clear that, as far as we are concerned, we do not want to give up the wording of the amendments. I say this with great frankness and everyone must assume his responsibility. I am also saying this for a number of colleagues who may have tabled only one amendment and frankly I cannot understand why they want to give up all these difficulties. The Commission's meetings are not there and, therefore, it cannot be said that we give up because we have to go to the Commission. If you give up explaining why you want to go home, everyone must assume their responsibility. As far as we are concerned, we will continue in this House not only to express our views, but also to present our views. We're honestly baffled. I see, however, that undersecretary Pizzetti is busy talking on the phone, perhaps he would do well to listen to us. Frankly, we are very tired: in the Commission we did not have the opportunity to explain our amendments and our arguments, because someone decided to come to the House immediately before Christmas. The House, apart from a few enthusiasts, obviously has other thoughts on its mind. The government, of course, has absolutely no intention of hearing our motives as well, and this frankly not only begins to become very rude from the institutional point of view, but it also prompts us to really wonder if we are reciting a clown or what else we are doing. Pizzetti keeps on on the phone. TAVERNA (M5S). Pizzetti! Undersecretary! He's talking to you! DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). This is a way of dealing with this House, Mr President, which is no longer tolerable! We need to be taught by the majority, the majority leaders, the minister, who teaches and leaves, and nobody deserves to listen or have the curiosity to understand what kind of amendments and proposals we have put forward. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senators Mussini and Campanella.]] We have tabled a number of amendments, and I will explain some of them, some of my group's colleagues, who are co-signators, Senators De Cristofaro, Cervellini and Uras, who are, among other things, signatories and presenters of his amendments, will illustrate the others. (The Undersecretary Pizzetti, after the phone call, gets up and heads towards the center of the hemicycle.) TAVERNA (M5S). He's leaving now! DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). As far as I am concerned, I would like to make a few amendments which are not really referred to in Article 1, and I say this very clearly. We have tabled amendments in the preamble to the law itself and Article 1, which relate to another of the most difficult issues in the process of this electoral law, namely the need not for the safeguard clause, which is another issue, but for a standard bridge. In fact, the anomaly, completely outside the Constitution, with which, even from the procedural point of view, we are dealing with the amendment of the electoral law, is that it applies only and only for the House - on the date will return my colleague Uras - waiting and already predicting that everything is going well and that the citizens will approve the Senate of those appointed by others. The anomaly is that it does not solve anything that can happen and Parliament, the Senate, in all this haste, is committed to discussing an electoral law that, however, is not known when it will be possible to apply. The other anomaly is that this law applies only to the Chamber of Deputies. Anything can happen, in a week, in fifteen days; if this country were to be in the need to vote - as also threatened by the President of the Council, who said that, if the President of the Republic is not elected at the fourth vote, one will vote - a question arises spontaneously: we would like to know by which electoral law one would vote in a month and a half or two months. The debate on this point has been long and complex. There are those who support the view that the Consultellum, i.e. the residual rules of the Constitutional Court's judgment No. 1, is immediately applicable: the arguments that we dispute, because we believe that the matter cannot be regulated by regulation, but it requires the rule of law. We have therefore tabled a number of amendments which put the so-called Consultellum into order and make it perfectly applicable to the House but also to the Senate. In fact, the problem of the Senate, with regard to the immediate applicability of the Consultellum, without intervention by law, exists. In the meantime, I would like to remind you that the Senate, in its history, has never been elected with the system of preferences, and then the question of the constitutional dictation, which provides for the senators to be elected on a regional basis. We have therefore put forward a series of rules which we consider to be a "bridge standard" and which we are submitting to this House. We think, in fact, that it is absolutely not possible - it would be really abnormal - that a country can stand for not even one, two or fifteen days, without the certainty of an electoral law, that it is usable and is not subject to the many interpretations that are made at the moment, since there are those who claim that it is immediately applicable, those who claim that a regulation is enough and those who, like us, claim instead that a norm is needed. That is the premise. The other issue I would like to address - the other Senators will then present a series of amendments concerning the system envisaged, from the majority prize to the ballot, to the combined provision of a majority prize and a barrier - concerns the amendments which try to emphasise all the aspects of unconstitutionality which, in our opinion, remain in the text, both on the basis transmitted by the House and in that containing the amendments made here by the majority group leaders' amendments. So, on this plant, by identifying what we consider to be constitutionally critical, and also in the light of a careful reading of the Constitutional Court's judgment No 1, we intervene by submitting these amendments. I will concentrate on the question of the formation of lists, whether blocked or not. This is a point which does not exhaust the issues relating to the establishment of the law, but which appears to be delicate. The Porcellum was rejected by the citizens. I mentioned today the flood of signatures collected at the time for the repealing referendum. It was a widespread popular feeling, because the citizens were perfectly aware that it was no longer bearable to be completely expropriated of the right to choose their own representatives, entrusting all this to the leader of a party. The Porcellum 2 "vengeance" repeats this model. When the Court intervenes on this point, the objections of unconstitutionality raised - in my view - are not surpassed by the fact of presenting shorter lists. In the proposed amendment, for which there are blocked leaders and others, in the one-name colleges, can be chosen with preferences, there is an open conflict with the other article, cited directly by the Court, concerning the equality of voting. The system that proposes the blocked leader and the other elected candidates with preferences crystallizes, in reality, precisely this point of criticality. In fact, the forces that can elect candidates, as well as in blocked lists, also within those who are chosen with preferences - I do not say that, but it has been said in many speeches during the hearings carried out, where on the point they have been very clear - are only the main ones, because in reality the medium and small forces will see elected only the blocked leaders. The only ones who will be able to be elected are the party members who take the majority prize. It is clear that this is an enormous critical point, on which there will again be recourse to the Constitutional Court. You need to know. Or count on the fact that judges change... ANDRIZZI (M5S). Eh! DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). ...you elect a new President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I have the impression that you think that, otherwise you would not have put forward such a proposal. The result of this affair, which is absolutely unacceptable, is that we will have - we hope not and we will do everything to ensure that this does not happen - a Senate of appointed by other political classes and a House which, in the majority, will continue, even with this mechanism, to be in fact composed of appointed persons. Some say: to mitigate the size of the blocked capilists we put another instrument, which is that of multi-candidates. This accentuates even more the twist, as the party, not only decides the capilist, but, at the moment when it also chooses the multi-candidates and then where to opt (because this is the game) gets even more power. Mr President, I am closing on this because we cannot fool ourselves: we have been having a debate on gender equality for years. I say this to you because you have also tabled amendments to this effect on the issue of gender equality. We have tabled amendments which make it clear and clear what the mechanism of alternation is and the fact that the capilists must also be chosen under criterion 50 and 50. But with the mechanism of multi-candidate, how can we guarantee that there is actually a rebalancing of representation? The candidate in ten colleges will be able to decide as he wishes, thus completely altering the relationship and the possibility that there will be an equal presence of elected members in Parliament. It is also this: it will be kind permission of those who will have to make the options. This is a matter that I would like to put to you. We have tabled amendments on this subject. The issue is very serious and delicate and you cannot delete it only with the propaganda in which we say "we will put in the field the possibility of gender rebalancing" when, immediately after they are put a series of instruments (such as this of pluricandidability) that are - in my opinion - from every point of view certainly not correct. I am really closing because I do not want to go any further, going back to the point of inequality. Do you understand that undue further advantage can give the mechanism of the blocked leader, and along with the others envisaged, from the point of view of electoral competition to the force that receives the majority prize (on this we return) and that, having the unique possibility of being able to trigger and elect candidate citizens with preferences, can also enjoy a multiplier effect from the point of view of the electoral campaign? So, not only is there a clear and clear violation of the principle of equality of voting, but also a further undue advantage from this point of view; frankly, I cannot understand why we do not want to understand it. We have tabled two alternative proposals. As for the first, we propose at least that we return to 26 circuits, with wide lists, in which there is the mechanism of a list of 25% blocked and the remaining 75% of elected with preferences. We then presented another option. I personally have always been linked to colleges, because my first experience of election took place in a single college and I know how fundamental that kind of mechanism is for the constant relationship with citizens and voters. We have also presented the proposal of (let's call it so) Provincellum, which provides that, as in the system of Provinces, in all colleges there are candidates, but they are of that college, with a system such as that of the former provincials (because the Provinces now choose others), which obviously clicks with the system of proportional calculation. So, as you can see, on this specific point we have presented a series of interventions that try to mitigate the damage and also to make adjustments, in order to ensure that we really avoid the unpleasantness of an electoral law that is exactly, both in the effects and in the modalities, the copy of the previous law. The alternative proposals are all in place. I believe, if someone were to listen to us and if someone really wanted to discuss and change the text, that we could find solutions to what I believe to be the main issue: to bridge this huge gap between citizens and institutions themselves.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u100	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I cannot help but speak. It is 1:16 p.m. and we will be present in this House in thirty people. We are carrying on, indeed you are carrying on, a real farce. I'm going after you, Madam President. You have given us a list with about fifty Members of this House to explain the amendments to Article 1. However, as the dossier is not yet available, the exact number of amendments cannot be known. So explain and explain an amendment of which the number is unknown, for the purposes of the vote, if it is not useless little we lack. But let's go beyond that, because maybe we could make a little commitment and make some notes. But I ask you: from a temporal point of view, how long does it take to fascicolare and print it all? One day, two days? I understand it's a lot, so it's gonna take three days. Rather than go on with this methodology, which does not allow us, given the importance of the law, to be able to follow the work as best we can, then it would be more appropriate to interrupt them, Madam President, also in the afternoon, if not tomorrow morning, and then start voting. Madam President, the problem probably does not lie in the time it takes for fascicolare; the problem lies in the agreements that have not been reached. They probably don't even know what they have to vote on today, because there are no agreements. Madam President, we do not keep making fun of each other. I am marking, of the 54 senators, all those who are intervening; of the first 25 only one colleague intervened and now perhaps there is another colleague who wants to explain. So the method you are pursuing is absolutely not productive in order to do a serious job such as that relating to an electoral law. Let's do something else: outside it is said that we work here until Thursday morning. Let's just say that's not true. Or maybe it's true. There are 30 of us, Madam President. In fact, I am told that we are 42 senators present; all the others are probably already around with the trolley. It would then be appropriate, Madam President, to interrupt the work and find another method, before the senators leave, because then all the senators leave and go home on Thursday afternoons. To see you when? Tuesday? I am willing to stay and ask you for a precise date in order to know when the amendments will be available with a precise numbering, so that you can read them. I would not like this dossier to be made available on Tuesday, when work is resumed, because normally what happens is this: on Thursday at 1:00 p.m. (in fact, we are already 20 minutes after the usual deadline) the work is interrupted, then everyone runs away and we will see each other again on Tuesday. Once in a while it happens that work continues beyond 8 p.m. or 10 p.m.; then, since, among other things, Madam President, you are taking a great deal of effort to find a solution, I hope that you will be able to accept these advices, even in order to send a proper message to the outside world. Imagine what message all citizens who are following our work at the moment can receive through the various channels. I personally say to you that at present I am not in the ideal position to follow the work. Among other things, even the government seems rather disoriented; I see the Undersecretary who is always present, but, poor, left there alone. So perhaps we should stop for four to five hours to allow fascicolation - because that is the time it takes from the technical point of view - and then continue, if you will allow me, Madam President, with greater seriousness. See you.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u101	I thank you for the advice, Senator Santangelo, but the only thing I want to say to the whole House is that this is a decision we had already shared, which the Presidency has taken on the basis of the choices made with the Leaders. Since, in my opinion, we had begun to explain the amendments in a responsible and serious manner with Senator De Petris, I believe it is quite frankly correct to go on in this way. So let us continue with the explanation of the amendments. I call Senator Campanella.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u102	Madam President, I would like to say first of all that, for training, I have a deep respect for Parliament's role and I believe that it is the way we are following in dealing with this very important issue that electoral law is the calls to senators who want to go home, or something like that, they do nothing good for Parliament, which, despite the defiances that I have experienced, I continue to see how the principal institution of our order and I would like to maintain or recover, where necessary, this role and this fundamental function for a Republic as it is designed by our Constitution and how I continue to see it. We Senators of Italy Work in Corso we have presented, together with some other colleagues, a bill that, due to problems of operation of the offices, has not been able to associate with this that we are dealing with today. What was contained in that provision, the Senate Act 1702, was basically poured into three amendments, of which at this time I am unable to report the number (we return to the problems of malfunctioning; this is an important aspect of the electoral law, on which we all converge, so, probably, other considerations should have been made before the haste, all political, so we have come to this way of working). In these amendments, we start from the idea that a parliament, as the Government would like, from a single Chamber that gives confidence, cannot afford that the small number of parliamentarians elected by the citizens (from 945 to 630) will be reduced further. Instead, we believe that, in order for the institutional mechanisms to regain the effectiveness that we all want to regain, it is important to reconnect the relationship between the institutions and the citizens who express them, as the first holders of sovereignty. I believe that the problem affects everyone, in a differentiated way, with different visions, but it must not be because of our lack that the issues are not distorted and presented to everyone. With regard to the direct election of parliamentarians, we believe that in a House that is the only one that gives confidence we cannot give a majority prize that completely blindens the parliamentary majority, even if in a perspective of lesser evil - which the 5 Star Movement refuses - we accept the idea of a small prize, where there are two conditions: a strong participation in the election, therefore with a minimum of 50% of the voters who actually vote and the achievement in the first round of 45% of the votes on a list. In that case, a small prize could be given to bring members of the relative majority list to 321. I would like to stress the importance of electoral participation in the vote. The President of the Council, in a statement to the press, after the regional elections in Emilia Romagna and Calabria, in the face of the collapse of participation and strong abstentionism, said, in my opinion, rather unhappy, that it was not a fundamental aspect. For us, however, it is very important, because the citizens' abstention from the vote is in a plastic way the removal of citizens from the institutions and their democratic legitimacy. We therefore believe that a Parliament cannot award any kind of prize where voters who go to the polls are less than 50% of those entitled. Let us imagine that in that case Parliament could be elected in a totally proportional way, in order to seek a path without enjoying prizes that would not justify. Where, on the other hand, the citizens who go to vote attribute to the relative majority party a majority of more than 45%, at that point it makes sense to give the minimum to reach 51% of the seats, in order to allow that party to actually engage in the application of the program of the government of the country (at this moment I am illustrating the first of the amendments, which in practice contains almost all of the bill). If one of the lists failed to reach 45%, but still exceeded 30% (always with the precondition of electoral participation in the vote), at that point one could go to another electoral round, where the citizens who participate in the vote go to choose, between the first two lists, the one that should go to rule the country, that - it is true - would not have reached at first a substantial majority, but would receive the consents of those citizens who anyway do not appreciate the list opponent compared to the one they vote, according to the principles of double-round voting. This type of approach should, therefore, reduce the de facto power of a government with a very strong parliamentary majority. In fact, we have said that the first list, according to the government bill, would receive 340 parliamentary seats, but it is credible that to that list, in the parliamentary dynamic, they can add others. Therefore, that Government with a very strong majority would be allowed not only to carry forward the electoral programme presented to the voters, but also to produce regulatory acts that deviate from that programme. This is what happened to the Democratic Party, which, with a much larger majority in fact than in the general elections (because other formations, whose programmes were distinct and distant), could and can afford to ignore its own large internal minority that would never have been able to access that type of choice. That is why I say that a government with an excessively large majority is also given the possibility of not respecting the word given to the voters and that is why we believe that a minimum majority premium would be appropriate. Another important problem is the choice of individual Members. We consider it appropriate to return to what had been the result of the referendum Signs of so many years ago - remember? - which canceled multiple preferences, allowing voters to choose their favorite candidate and taking away from groups of candidates, currents and rope the possibility of teaming up during the elections and then distorting the actual results. The important thing for us, however, is to give effective equal access to both sexes. However, in our opinion, this issue must be contemporaneous with another, which in some parts of the country is particularly important (but now this type of problem has spread a little everywhere), concerning the control of the vote by "non-governmental organizations." This problem for us can be overcome - and so we propose to do - with two cards, one for candidates and one for candidates: the voter would find himself expressing two preferences but in two cards with a single preference. This, moreover, would avoid candidatures, women or men, comfortable because the parties would be forced to run for their best staff in order to prevent voters choosing to give their vote to a candidate or candidate from another party, where theirs did not express a politically credible candidate or candidate. This is the first of my amendments and I have tried to summarize here the meaning of the type of design we were planning. Another very important thing for us - and this is another aspect of this design - is a compulsory primary system. We believe that the primary system has actually had a role of increasing the weight of party supporters in the parties themselves, because we believe that the crisis of our political system was essentially and above all an internal crisis of parties, and the primary ones were a solution. The problem is that such an important mechanism such as that of the primaries cannot be managed officially by the State, as they have demonstrated - where necessary - the facts of the last few weeks: there have been the facts of Genoa, but also those of Naples or Palermo on other occasions. That is why my second amendment provides for the introduction of mandatory primary schools, run by the Courts of Appeal, as well as elections. Of course, parties would be responsible for identifying their primary candidates, as well as their primary voters; this would be controlled and managed in a certified manner, with a view to identifying people who are actually the expression of the popular will - and of that being the spokesperson - as well as in view of reducing the weight of party secretariats. For us, in fact, it is fundamental that article 67 - which many would like to eliminate - because, in the prohibition of imperative mandate and in the individual responsibility of each of the representatives of the people, is the sense of elective assemblies. If every member of each party were to take as his own, uncritically speaking, the decisions taken by the party to which he belongs, at this point Parliament would function in a much more similar way to that of a board of directors of a public limited company, in which each party has a piece of decision-making capacity, a percentage of the share ownership. The sense of representative assemblies lies in the critical capacity of each individual to assume the responsibilities of what he says and what he votes, beyond the indications of the Group to which he belongs. A final amendment, however, concerns the creation of the register of abstainers, i.e. those who refrain from participating in the elections. In anticipation of the amendment, the register would have no other effect than to publish the name of those who do not vote and want to have a deterrent effect on the abstentionism of the elections, which remains for us the symptom of an important malaise, but also the prodrome of worse sicknesses. I remember the phrase "if people get tired of going to vote, sooner or later they find someone who will please them" we would like to avoid it. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u103	I call Senator Uras.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u104	Madam President, I take advantage of the fact that I have the floor to ask myself a question, but, I would say, to all my colleagues and also to you. I would like to be able to understand if, at the moment we give ourselves a program, even through the rather difficult forms with which we do it, we sometimes manage to respect it. I would also like to understand whether we can not interfere with the programme through a debate on what we have decided and the reason why that programme was agreed, when it was agreed, or suffered, when it was subjected to a majority decision, so that we do not understand whether that programme is being followed or not. So they do in condo meetings when the condominiums fight systematically among themselves and never manage to decide how best to protect the property they live in, how to protect it, how to clean it. I say this because I have a clear feeling of it and this is a political responsibility, but - be careful - not the Government, because the Government is an expression of political formations, of parties; therefore the responsibility is political, it is the parties, their members and their voters. There has been talk here of a safeguard clause. I concentrate on this because it is the biggest offense that Parliament is writing. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] , for the reasons expressed by the Minister (who, although a woman, has learned well the dictation of Pontius Pilate). This rule responds to a request that comes from Parliament, that is from political formations, that is from parties. That so-called safeguard clause has only one purpose declared by all, only one: to guarantee the relative majority party and its allies a fair continuity in the legislature, so that those parliamentarians do not represent an obstacle to the objectives, which the Government sets itself, of organizing an institutional system more authoritarian and centralised, more compressed; for this reason it gives a candy and says: "suck this candy" - that of the safeguard rule - "but do not disturb the design." The majority does not ask for this, the majority parties do not ask for it, but they almost pretend to suffer it; an opposition party asks it in a special way (not ours), so that the Government has the result of its being able to comply with a request coming from minority parties and therefore to be able to say that the rules we write together, with a rule, however, that serves the members of the majority parties to support the Government in that operation of compression of democracy that we do not tolerate. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Bell and Bignami Senators]] All this happens in a deserted Chamber, where TV operators also go to eat [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] ; However, since we still have (at least this) recordings and, fortunately, the speeches are transcribed and therefore remain in the record, there will also be some of us who say that this filth is not good for us. The amendment that I have tabled is very simple, as it provides for this law to come into force immediately, like all those that are being done to be useful. All the more reason for it to come into force immediately, Madam President, because there is - or at least is said to be - a legislative vacuum in electoral matters, since the current electoral rule, which has been mutilated by the decision of the Constitutional Court, is not even a suitable legal instrument. Since we, by chance, must elect the Head of State these days, we must explain to me how the Government can accept the request and how the party or parties that have proposed a rule for deferment of effectiveness, which are in the minority, to ask the question: or rather, I understand this, because they are destabilizing subjects of this democratic system, as it is designed, and want to destabilize it because they have a different culture, which has been attacking the national institutional system consistently for a long time, possibly affecting also its national consistency, putting themselves in a problem of division, and I understand it. They have that project and they pursue it consistently, that's fine: but how the parties of the majority do to support this thesis I just don't understand it; rather, I'm horrified, because understanding it would pose me a number of problems. The faculty of early dissolution of the Chambers is of the Head of State and cannot be affected, today above all, when we are electing the Head of State: do we want to choose a lame one? Do we accept this idea and practice it in the laws we do in the parliamentary classrooms? [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-MovX Groups and the Senators Campanella and Romano.]] Does the Democratic Party take this political responsibility, which remains in history? I hope not and that we will consider the amendment that I have tabled, which restores dignity to this House and also to that of the other branch of Parliament. It cannot happen, in fact, that we are treated like the troublemakers who leave the weekend, do not care about the general interest and do not represent the country. We are treated like this by ourselves, which is truly intolerable: how do we treat ourselves so badly? If I am the only one who is leading a battle on this issue to the very end, with that so-called safeguard clause, if the country needs another government, an expression of another Parliament, we must be happy to go home! [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Groups and Senators Bignami, Bencini, Campanella, Orellana and Romans Maurizio.]] If Parliament needs governability that this Parliament cannot guarantee, we must be happy to go home. Our duty, but also our ability to exist and to do so as representatives of our people, today in the people we are and tomorrow in others, are in fact the very reason for democracy, lies in the foundation of our Constitutional Charter, in the blood and flesh of the many who have lost their lives to defend these principles. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Groups and Senators Bignami, Bencini, Campanella, Orellana and Romans Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u105	I call Senator De Cristofaro.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u106	Madam President, I would also like to speak briefly because many of the things I had to say to you in my speech just now, which is why we voted in favour of not going to the articles and I have had the opportunity to talk about them in general. I would simply like to explain a package of amendments which we have tabled, in particular, on the issue of the majority prize and the ballot. You know that these are very sensitive points for us because they introduce new elements which have, however, been the subject of the Constitutional Court's ruling over the past few months. For our part, there is great concern that, if we have a new electoral law still containing certain constitutional defects, in the months and years to come the Court can speak against the electoral law passed by Parliament. This would obviously lead to a very dangerous short circuit for the democracy of this country and would create an element of even greater discredit of the political class and, in particular, of the parliamentary classrooms, which already live a condition of great difficulty, as I think everyone knows, and which should be measured daily with this element. We have expressed very serious reservations about the mechanism of the majority prize and the ballot. We believe that the mechanism imagined is not enough to solve the problems posed by the Constitutional Court in the now famous judgment, first of all because it refers to a point that, in reality, does not exist in the Italian Constitution, that of the so-called relative majority. In our Constitution we refer only and exclusively to the absolute majority, so much so that the so vicious law of fraud, which was also discussed this morning, had exactly that as a point of reference and we were talking, in that specific case, about the possibility of increasing the number of seats and making them 65% by virtue of the achievement of an absolute majority. In this case there is an element of novelty - which in reality is not such because it was already contained in the Porcellum and which was called into question by the judgment - and a threshold is introduced which, however, obviously, the mechanism of the ballot can easily bypass. This is also a further point of reflection from some of my colleagues' speeches this morning, partly because it is based on a assumption that it has no basis whatsoever. It is a virtual assumption that, even if a party does not reach this fateful threshold of 40%, as it will be to this more or less near - of course we are discussing an electoral law thinking today and using the data of the last European elections as if they were the current legislation, when instead an electoral law should look at what will happen over the next few years - the majority prize that would be triggered would not, however, be particularly different from that provided for in the event of the 40% threshold being exceeded. Too bad that this reasoning does not deal with the material reality of this country and with a hypothesis that is not from school. The government must explain to us on the basis of what reasoning it takes for granted the fact that the ballot will win the party that arrived first and why it cannot happen that the ballot - as happened in many Italian municipalities - the party arrived second, maybe even with a significant distance from the votes taken by the first party. Obviously, at that point, a system would be created whereby the seats allocated by virtue of the majority prize would be much higher than the seats allocated by virtue of the royal vote. Government and fellow senators, will you allow that, if an opposition raises this problem and tells you to be careful because in Italy it could happen that in the coming years a political party takes more seats allocated with the majority prize than those obtained by the popular vote, this argument represents at least an element of reflection? That's exactly what happens in municipalities. I live in a city where the mayor has been elected on the basis of a mechanism, be careful, of direct election (and therefore with obvious elements of difference from the legislation that you are putting on the field; of course the mayor governs a city and does not govern a nation, for which counterweights, even with respect to the election modalities, should be different from those planned for a city) and transformed 15 percent of the votes obtained by his coalition, into 60 percent of the seats. This thing has happened already and it is not a case of school but a possible fact, because it can happen by banally, with a mechanism of balloting, that concerns a party or a coalition. It is not true that you have solved the issue of the coalition: what Mr Boschi did this morning is propaganda, because you are talking about a prize on the list and you obviously cannot foresee a mechanism that prevents the so-called "listone" from being built. Over the years that will come, in fact, it will happen that parties, even different from each other, exactly with the same logic of the coalition as they have done in the past years, put themselves together under a single list and can also divide the seats, having imagined a system of headmaster blocked so that even a party of 2 or 3 percent to weigh his votes can contract a total of capilists. So even this mechanism - which I insist we do not see negatively because we do not think we can create by law a situation that politics has broken down over these months - and the combined arrangement of these elements create difficulties. I would therefore ask you whether you are questioning the fact that you are building an electoral law whereby, through the ballot mechanism, not as a case of school and abstractly but in practice, it can happen that we will have a Parliament in which those who have taken a total of votes will be able to find three times the number of seats. Do you have the problem that with the constitutional reform that you are approving, with the abolition of the Senate, with the second-level mechanism and also with the way in which the Head of State is elected, that same political force will be able to elect the Head of State, the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Council of the judiciary, always on the basis of a very small number of votes compared to those that would serve in a functioning democratic system? Of the two: these objections can be considered as those of those who do not want to change things, of the owls, of those who resent the President-in-Office of the Council or who do not like Mr Boschi or other amenities of this kind. Or you can consider these issues by considering them as serious objections, which would be placed in any course of any professor of constitutional law. It is not by chance that constitutional law is not taught at the last year of jurisprudence but at the first, because it is also a way of ensuring that, if someone really does not like law and jurisprudence, he can immediately notice and maybe change his faculties. Those who today support these arguments must note elements of difficulty. You will not like the constitutionalists of this country, because you consider them a bit "professors" - and perhaps in some cases they are. But will there be a reason for the vast majority of Italian constitutionalism, with regard to these issues that we are trying to put forward, to highlight at least some problematic elements? Will there be a reason for confusing the plan, for which there is a surreptitious mechanism of direct election, but without codifying it within the Italian Constitution? It would have been better to make a more sincere argument, stating something that the President of the Council always says, even with arguments, that the country has the right to know who won the very evening of the elections. Obviously he says something that has a foundation and that is not nonsense. I too, as a citizen, as well as a political militant, would like to know who won the election night. But will there be a reason for us in parliamentary democracies like ours, where the President-in-Office of the Council is not directly elected, but the legislative Assembly which has to give him confidence, are these two elements facing a difficulty? Will there be a reason why in all the parliamentary democracies built up like ours there is this element of difficulty? So, on election night, you want to know who won and who lost? Let us have the courage to put the issue of direct election to the country. Let us have the courage, let us break this element of hypocrisy, so we are talking about a sort of direct election but direct election is not, because we are not electing the President of the Council, despite the ballot, but the legislative Assembly. It would be much more serious, and it would not just be because this would allow a perceptible mechanism for the country, so the Italian population would know what we are discussing, while I think, unfortunately, the vast majority of the country is understanding little or nothing of this debate, which risks being very technical and very, very little political and however not understandable. It would be much more serious, especially because, at the time of access to the hypothesis of direct election, there would be those counterweights that are decisive for the maintenance of democratic systems. In fact, in the countries where the Premier is elected with a direct election mechanism, there are counterweights that close the system and ensure that it is kept: this too is written in the constitutional law manuals and is easy enough to consult. The great cause of discomfort and difficulty, from my point of view, is that instead the mechanism contained in the draft law under consideration is surreptitious, a mechanism that, moreover, is in strong continuity with the Italian history of the last twenty years. In fact, this story is not born today, but it is the epilogue of a historical path. I begin to conclude, Mr President, and I apologize for the time I'm probably stealing beyond what I'm owed. I would have liked very much that a Government that was born on the basis of a slogan whose adage is "Cambiamo verso" had wanted to change towards also with respect to the trends of Italian politics of the last twenty years. On the other hand, I regret to say to the Government that what Minister Boschi says is exactly the opposite: it is not true that this electoral law changes towards what has been done and said in the last twenty years, it is the epilogue of a historical path that began in 1993 and that, from then on, it was necessary to sacrifice representativeness in the name of so-called stability and governability. It would have been more honest, even in the face of concrete results and the fact that it is not true that even in the course of these years we have been guaranteed who knows how much stability and governability, to say that we probably need to change really and therefore to radically question the ideological dogmas with which we have been confronted throughout the past twenty years. Instead, you are moving in complete continuity with the choices that have been made since 1993 to date. It would have been much more serious to change the verse and say that if Italian democracy did not work over the last twenty years and something blocked it, probably that something are the institutional choices and the attempts through which it was put hand to the institutional architecture of the country. If this had been done, it would have been much easier for us to look for an accession point. Of course, we note and appreciate some elements that have changed from the first draft of Italicum, which was really shameful while the Minister said it was a good electoral law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, don't take advantage of it. De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). I'm done, Madam President. Excuse me. It was not a good electoral law that was fired by the House: it had the highest majority prize in Europe, perhaps in the world, only Turkey had it even higher. That exit from the House was the worst electoral law we could face; this is better than that, but this better being is not enough on our part to be able to express a consensus. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u107	I call Senator Cervellini.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u108	Madam President, I will steal very little time because I would not like to inflict further torment on the few senators and senators present who do not deserve it, because at this point it would be worth rewarding the attention and concern they manifest with their presence. My colleagues, in general of the opposition and in particular of my Group, have dealt precisely with issues which already give an extremely worrying picture. It is difficult to intervene in a specific, parcelled manner, both on a subject such as constitutional reform and on electoral law, because everything is held if everything has its own harmony. Dealing with the subject in a specific way does not give a sense of complexity or of the possible solution. I would like to address a specific issue and I will do so, but I ask you to make a mutual effort. It is quite clear that the government can come forward, as it has done, and say that with regard to the first text, the question of thresholds and barriers has been addressed and mitigated, so we should be happy. As far as I am concerned, however, I am not at all happy and not because I move from the culture of the most one, but because the issues have consistency if they are within an equally coherent project. I understand the need for barriers that must have their own dimension in an absolutely proportional electoral system. In other experiences, such as the German one, a barrier threshold has its own ratio. It is different when one is in the presence of a formidable majority torsion, which not only has no precedent in the history of the country but also has few examples, on the democratic field, also in European and international experiences. The arranged combinations - recalled by Senator De Cristofaro - make us say that we are even beyond the forcings introduced to guarantee governability to the cities and provinces; forcings that characterize the elections of mayors and presidents of the Province, when still elected by the citizens. The forced force was around 50 percent, i.e. it was about those who did not exceed 50 percent in the first round. There have already been cases, therefore not exceptions but repeated cases, of results that at the ballot have rewarded the coalition in one case or the single list in another, arrived in the second place also in a very clear way. In fact, with the ballots, in countries where this happens (so much more in the absence of strong ideologies and sense of belonging), the power that develops is no longer that of the vote pro ma of the vote against. And the vote against has the power to take everyone, especially in the absence of great ideal and social belongings. This power manifested itself even where we had stopped, in the first round, at 49.8 percent: those who represented 49.8 percent in many cities and provinces at the ballot lost, and there were no frauds. And I'm not talking about Provinces with an electoral base of 40,000 votes but of 2 million votes, because I'm talking about the Province of Rome where I was part of the coalition that stopped at 49.8%. That means entrusting these powers. Anyway, I'm going back to the threshold. There have been much more powerful forcings that have rightly attracted the attention of information, the media and the press. However, you have committed what I believe to be a paradox and a real provocation in terms of the democratic profile: a majority is made a law where, on the altar of so-called governability and certainty of knowing, on the same evening, who will rule and who will be able to elect alone the President of the Republic and the members of the Constitutional Court and of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, also wants to decide which opposition to be given. I understand putting a threshold in a situation of proportional election, but in a proposal that sees a guarantee of governability, what is the concern of putting the threshold of access? The party will take a list, get 1.2 percent of the votes and, of course, will not participate in the first round, or in the ballot, or anything else. So it is not called into question, since the prize is given to the list and not to the coalition. The fact has not gone unnoticed, and also important newspapers, media and politologists have been grudgingly saying no, and that we must ensure that we have effective opposition. See that we are moving towards a ground unknown to democracy, but known to powerful and authoritarian forms. I display my limitations and self-declare myself. Present a design that provides mechanisms that we judge excessive torsion from a majority point of view. So where is he? It is in the fact that we want to standardize our country. The suspicion becomes inevitable and, therefore, thresholds are placed, we see if that is within the reach of a party with which we will not exchange the majority prize, but we take into account the common recent experience of Government, being of majority. With all due respect, the Minister said that we should thank someone, even though they didn't mention names. We are not among those who feel they have to thank someone, because you propose something even more aberrant than a worrying majority torsion. Here there is a risk of causing a phenomenon from the point of view of paradox. Often in politics - but not only - it is said: when you have the thresholds, avoid committing damage, error and not throwing dirty water and child as much damage as you can do to the subject that is being discussed. You risk getting over it, because you just throw away the baby and keep the water dirty. I am referring both to the plan of governability and to the plan of being able to take a path that will tomorrow allow us to say that the opposition force that he has lost is minority, small, medium or large. We have seen situations in recent years in which not only the forces of government but also the representatives of the opposition change suddenly: in terms of profile, characteristics and social partners. Do you want to secure this cast as well? This is absolutely serious in an institutional and democratic thinking. [[Applause from Senator De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u109	I call Senator Endrizzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u110	Madam President, being consistent is a matter of respect for the truth, for the roles and functions we perform here, and perhaps even at the personal level, when we turn to the citizens. We first saw Mr Boschi say that this rule contains clear and certain provisions. Clear and certain were not the ways in which this norm came to us, indeed they were rather obscure, coming from external rooms and obscene conciliations. And they were not certain, if it is true that the text that today finally has its own reality arrived at us at nighttime, out of maximum time and, although arrived by violating the rules, offered it a preferential route. All because of the urgency. Submissive was our right, but it was made to pass as a concession and we had to do it at night, because there was urgency and there was a hurry. Today we are here to discuss and explain amendments in an empty Chamber. I am sorry that citizens from home cannot see the overall picture and that the press may not document it. We are in an empty Chamber, a sign of very little respect. I guess the texts have already arrived: let the hamsters turn in the wheel - this has become the Senate, so Renzi will be more comfortable to say that you can abolish it - and you prepare the trolleys and go home, that you vote Tuesday. So let's get serious, this is just useless talk. There's also a look... I understand your suffering, President Finocchiaro, I understand you. FINOCCHIAR (PD). No pain, I do my duty. But I noticed that there's not even this crowd in your desks. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please. ENDRIZZI (M5S). I shall conclude, Madam President. There is also a formal and technical aspect. The fact that there are no files is no big deal. However, before explaining the amendments, I would at least like to know which and how many are admissible. We do not know that yet. At this point, I am abstaining from what would be my right to explain our proposals, because I do not believe that there are the conditions of respect that are necessary and that I was talking about. I thought I'd let her and everyone know. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u111	I insist that there is freedom of choice and also of opinion about who is present in this House and it is an individual assumption of responsibility. I call Senator Finocchiaro. Mr Paglini (M5S). We also have the Commissions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Commissions have been suspended. The presidencies of the Commissions are different; however we check. [[Senator Paglini repeatedly points out that she wants to intervene]] I had already given the floor to Senator Finocchiaro. Please, Senator Finocchiaro.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u112	Madam President, I would like to outline the amending proposal signed by me, which is certainly a well-known proposal to all my colleagues in the Commission for justice and many others who, during this week, had the time, patience or interest in considering the work that the Commission had done up to that point. It is precisely the same proposal that I have put forward as rapporteur in the Commission, apart from two additions that I shall say later. My proposal came not only from the Commission's work on the subject of electoral reform, but has its roots in the debate that developed within the Commission and subsequently in this House during the reform of the Constitution, in particular the reform of the prefect bicameralism. In that place, and in the many places where we discussed that issue, colleagues will remember that one of the observations which, with the strongest, most lively and most rightly, in my opinion and in the view of the Commission, was made, is that in a system with only one representative Chamber, that Chamber should be composed on the basis of a principle that would ensure representation as widely as possible. A requirement that has been mentioned so many times and that was the first that the Commission discussed and addressed when we discussed the electoral law in general. This is the reason why these amendments, as many Members have pointed out - Minister Boschi himself has done so - in line with that debate and with that sentiment, bring a lowering of the threshold of access to three per cent compared to the thresholds that were laid down in the text that we received from the House; a change on which, moreover, it seems to me that many have agreed - but I will now also come to objections that can be made - which leads to the threshold of 3% as the only threshold for access to representation. The second amendment to the Italicum text concerns the threshold from which the political force (then the list, according to the amendments, reaching the fateful threshold) receives the majority prize corresponding to 340 seats. The two issues, that of the threshold for access and that of the threshold at which the majority premium is obtained, are, of course, closely linked. I believe that even in this sense, as has been said in many parts, the improvement over the text that comes from the House is intuitive and so you root over what is the best approximation possible, and I insist on the adjective "possible" because we are discussing the electoral law possible and not the electoral law that is more appropriate to each of us. We're talking about the possible electoral law after eight years of Porcellum. This combination of the 3% threshold and the 40% threshold leads to reasonable thinking that this reform can correspond to that need for representation on the one hand and for the stability of governments on the other, which has been, not today, the diadem around which the legislator has always exercised itself in order to achieve electoral reform. I would also like to say that every time we are going to reform - this is the spirit in which I and the signatories of the amendments have moved - it is always good to bear in mind the point from which we move. I say this not to please us but because the work of the legislator, which is in itself a hard work and not always fully satisfactory of his own reasons, has, in my opinion, always the need to be supported by verifying the progress that has been made with respect to a starting point that is now considered obsolete or even wrong and therefore to be overcome. I believe that these amendments succeed in the best possible approximation - I repeat the expression - to move forward with respect to a model, the Porcellum, which, without the legislator being able to intervene, was definitively buried by the judgment of the Constitutional Court. The 3% limit is, in my opinion, reasonable and, above all, possible; but I also think that the other element to which we always look, in the difficult work we are doing, is to verify the work on the basis of reality data and not of the changed reality data, because we like it so much. I do not want to give myself any credit, which is very clear, nor do I want to stigmatize the absolutely legitimate views of my colleagues, but I think we need to look at the facts. So often, in this House, even as colleagues in the PD, the argument has been raised that a threshold of 3%, in the presence of a majority prize, is unacceptable or even unacceptable. I would just like to remind you that another electoral system that is constantly being evoked here and that is dear to many of us, the Mattarellum, for access to the distribution of the seats of the so-called list, so that part of the blocked list that was allocated proportionally, saw the threshold of 4%. There are political forces that did not join forces in colleges that did not have access, precisely because of the fact that there was such a threshold. The content of the amendments is well known to all, and it is also well known to all that there is an issue arising from the reading and consistency with the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which concerns the right to direct voting, so extraordinarily compressed, pulverized, by the Porcellum system. With regard to this, I believe that the accommodation that comes from the amendments, although not perfect - and my colleagues know that I am personally sensitive to this issue - is, however, in the given conditions, an accommodation which, in my opinion, does not present profiles of unconstitutionality as evident as they have been denounced. I'm trying to explain why. First of all, the Court's ruling criticizes the Porcellum because all Members and all Senators were elected on blocked lists. With this system we would have on the card, visually (the amendments bear this indication and describe it), the symbol of each political force and a name, therefore directly and fully recognizable by the voters, and then two lines on which to indicate the two preferences. The latter provide for the mechanism of gender preference, for which they must be of different genders, otherwise the second is cancelled. From the point of view of the knowledge of the subject, of the recognizability of the political offer, I believe that we cannot have any doubts. I say more than that. The evocation of the Mattarellum on the point is not exactly appropriate, because the nominations in colleges were determined by the games among the allied parties, and I would like to remind the few colleagues who are now present in the Chamber how much this cost to women's candidatures. The list was a blocked list that also had its length consistency, so it was not exactly so much more respectful of the right vote than this system is instead. Many colleagues say that the medium-small forces will have all the elected appointed. It was exactly what happened with the Mattarellum and that happened even for much larger parties. I remember that, in the 2001 elections in Sicily, out of 61 colleges the center-right conquered 61 and the representation of the PDS was entrusted exclusively to the proportional list: all nominated. Then no one was scandalized; today, probably because our sensitivity, mortified by eight years of Porcellum, has accentuated, we look at this phenomenon with concern. I think that the debate in Parliament is also useful for this and, if it were possible (in the sense that there was a broad array of forces, to the best possible approximation), we could also move forward with respect to this objection. One issue, among the many that have been raised, has been raised by Senator De Petris and is a real issue: it is the question of multi-candidateism and the fact that the free option can mortify gender representation. I think we can work on this. I have already thought of a proposal, I am perfecting it, I will offer it to the debate and then the House will see how it can proceed on this point. That, then, is the body of the amendments. There is, then, the issue of balloting, which is obviously aimed at not letting the objective of government stability be dispersed at a time when it is not possible, in the first round, to see a force reach the roof of 40%. I would like to remind the Members of the Commission how many hearings we held last year, at our first reading of the electoral law, which was then moved to the House, and how much, by all the experts who were questioned, we were told about the fact that there was only one possibility to guarantee stability, which was precisely that of a ballot that eventually closed the system. Another rule - and it is the two rules that I and all the signatories of the amendments have added to the text tabled in the Commission - concerns the so-called 'flipper effect': it is also an issue on which we have questioned ourselves. For those who do not know the issue - but all colleagues know it very well - it is precisely the risk that the allocation of a toboggan seat, because of the balance in territorial distribution, from one college to another, thereby betraying the will of the voters when they gave a consensus to that candidate who has in himself a greater consensus than the one that is then assigned to the seat. We felt it was necessary to present this rule in this draft, precisely in order to mitigate the effect we have been talking about. The last rule, finally, is that which places on 1 July 2016 the application of this electoral law, on the basis of the commitment (which was a joint commitment) to be able to apply this rule in the first elections for the Chamber of Deputies following the approval of the constitutional reform and the celebration of the confirmation referendum, with respect to which there is a widespread commitment among all political forces. I repeat: this is the best approximation possible and I believe that the strength of this proposal is in this adjective. Just consider the signatures that are at the bottom of the amendments to understand how, for the first time and indeed, after eight years and after the decision of the Constitutional Court, daughter of the powerlessness of the legislator, we are in a position to approve an electoral law that succumbs to the harshest criticism, that not only from the public debate, but also from the Court's remarks, have come to the previous electoral law. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u113	I call Senator Mauro Mario.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u114	Madam President, I would like to make a few brief comments on the first point of the amendments to Article 1, which I tabled together with other Members, and which focus, in particular, on a subject on which I have returned several times to the Commission, and which I have also taken up in the general debate. This issue seems to me to be a bit the cornerstone of a political affair which is subject to the difficult debate on the balance of powers and which represents one of those shortcuts - which I believe to be profoundly negative - which is intended to give a solution to the problems posed by the criteria of governance and representation. As is well known, for many years in Russia there has been a multifaceted and extraordinarily strong personality like Vladimir Putin. Putin did not force the Constitution of the country to achieve this result; he simply interpreted it to the best, jumping from the role of President of the Republic to that of premier and therefore placing himself strategically, for what the Constitution granted him, always determining the fate of the country, bordering on a role underneath, when he was Premier, the President of the Russian Federation Medvedev and taking back all the prerogatives of his role when he was President of the Republic. In our Constitution the President of the Republic has extraordinary power: if there is a conflict between President of the Republic and President of the Council, the President of the Council goes home and the President of the Republic does not go home. If, however, without amending the Constitution, we are endowed with an electoral law in which the winner of the elections is paradoxically also the one who composed the lists that, through some careful mechanisms, form those that will compose the electoral body that will elect the President of the Republic, we can simply delude ourselves to being able to predict the behaviour of those who will play that role. God, however, as Péguy says, is obstinately ironic and reality, on the other hand, is ironically obstinate. Nothing is therefore easier than that, in the aftermath of the election of a President of the Republic in such a manner, those who have been elected realize that the Constitution has not been modified and that he still has that extraordinary power so that, if there is a contrast between the President of the Republic and the President of the Council, the President of the Council goes home and not the President of the Republic. My invitation through these amendments is therefore to reconsider the problem of what is meant by a majority award which, as our Constitution is ordained, is, if anything, a prize to the majority in the future so that it can well govern and not a prize to make a tailor-made majority. This invitation is the logical meaning of the amendments that I have tabled and that would like the granting of the majority prize never to fall below the 50% threshold plus one of the votes. That, in short, is the meaning of these amendments, which also respond to another logic. Augustine writes in "The Confessions" that in front of the devastation that vandals make of the Roman Empire in its late moment, the State is the band that won. The state cannot be the gang that has won and there can be no mechanisms that facilitate the possibility for anyone, in the exercise of the government, to take possession of the institutions so that they are master and more guarantor of the rights of citizens to build their own future. That is why I recommend, I hope and I hope that, through the vote on these amendments or also on others tabled by people who are more reasonable and better equipped from the point of view of the constitutional profile, we will always be able to mitigate the forms of the electoral law, so that it does not propose itself as a shortcut to the changes to the Constitution, but instead serves to ensure governance and representation. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u117	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, first of all I would like to take the floor to remind the citizens that we spent one night in this House on 19 December in order to incardinate this bill on 20 December at 7 a.m. and today we go home without doing anything, so there was no rush. Most likely there is no agreement between right and left and you waste time. Having said that, my speech is due to the fact that I was quite impressed by the intervention of Senator De Cristofaro. I do not know if he has tabled a single amendment or more than one; there have been, however, some things that convinced me, but after that I will not know which amendment I will have to vote on, since the proposals are not numbered. I take advantage of the presence of Senator Finocchiaro and thank you, because the institutional level of this woman must be recognized. While you were speaking, I had a doubt (I really say this without any controversy) about whether a voter wanted to vote for a party, for example (I say it really without irony) the Democratic Party and on the card there was written the name of Zanda. If I wanted to vote on the Democratic Party or any other party but didn't consider the person indicated to be a voter, would I have a solution? Should I abstain or would I have a solution to vote for that party and not that person? FINOCCHIAR (PD). It's like the Mattarellum, partner. CASTALDI (M5S). Always after the intervention of Senator De Cristofaro - and I turn again to the citizens - the next Parliament will most likely be made up of two thirds of nominations, so for us citizens who had as our priority to send this kind of people home, a great chance opens up, because this electoral law made for the nominations could open a great chance to the citizens. Let's remember that the nominees legislate for a very small part of the population: if you go to read the decrees you will see that they are made for 5 or 6 percent of the population (rich, lobby, mafia). With two thirds of the nominations, if the citizens all together win the election, we kill a lot of them with one shot. So watch out and don't abstain. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u118	I call Senator Ricchiuti.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not yet have the file of amendments and I am not wrong in any way. I thank the offices of the Senate that have been testing their conduct in recent days with a compression of the technical times of unusual and perhaps even unnecessary work. I say no use because if the so-called safeguard clause, which postpones the effectiveness of the law itself, is included in the electoral law, the sense of this run will be lost. I would therefore like to explain an amendment which I have tabled - and I do not know the number of them yet - aimed at providing for the obligation of primary elections by law to determine the formation of lists and nominations. The primary elections were born in the United States in the second half of the 19th century as an instrument to dismantle the oligarchies of the Republican party, which had won the war of secession and which, from Abraham Lincoln onwards, was the dominant one par excellence. Since that position income had produced a cast and a fortification of the power groups, the politicians who wanted to make their way independently proposed the mechanism of the primary popular elections distinct from the so-called general ones. As you can see, colleagues and colleagues, history offers courses and recourses: primaries in the United States have been the rule for more than a hundred years and are no longer a guarantee of honesty and quality of the candidate, but they are a guarantee of transparency and solidarity. The position is open and the fight is seen: today it is fought with weapons that I do not like, essentially money of monstrous electoral campaigns, but it is seen and the citizens can make an opinion. In Italy, we have imported them for just over ten years and have benefited from it. Who does not remember the surprising victory of Vendola in the primary Apulian of 2005? And then gradually those who elected Prodi to candidate of the center-left in October 2005 until those who made Matteo Renzi candidate mayor of Florence in 2009 and those of 8 December 2013 who elected him secretary of the PD. There is no doubt that the primary ones must be surrounded by guarantees of correctness and reliability and the cases of Campania and the very recent one of Liguria, a few days ago, are there to remind us. For this reason, I have tabled an amendment requiring a government regulation to fully regulate the conduct of the primary elections, which, however, the electoral law in principle must require. I reserve the right to return to the subject when I speak in an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u120	I call Senator Rossi Maurizio.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u121	Madam President, the sub-amendment I tabled concerns the primary elections. Considering that you all know what is happening in Liguria, I will read some titles: "Certosa," investigation of the primaries" (and today, to say the DIA, it seems that the anti-mafia seized lists of voters); Minacce to the spokesman of Cofferati. Digos and Procura were investigated, but Cofferati was also threatened; a former vice mayor of Forza Italia booked a place on the list: he would have brought 900 votes of non-EU citizens and entire football teams of minors to vote in the primary. The Public Prosecutor of Savona opened a file for violation of the rules on applications: the alleged crime would have paid people by directing the vote and there is suspicion of votes paid 5 euros. The news of these days tells us that there are people who have entered the places where the primary elections were held, saying to the scout: You ask me two euros: but what do you do, you give me the money out and you ask me in? There are other cases: about thirty or forty people arrived all together, who, not knowing what they were there for, asked where they had to pay and because, when they were about to leave, they were asked if they did not want to take the card, they replied: The card for what? Someone else told them where to put the cross and, once done, they brought the card open to show what they had voted; photographs, and so on. Then, let us realize that the Public Prosecutor of Savona is doing an act undoubtedly meritorious, because he opened an investigation file linking to the precise article 86 of the decree of the President of the Republic May 16, 1960, n. 570 (Single Text of the laws for the composition and election of the organs of the municipal administrations). Anyone who gives, offers or promises any benefit to one or more voters, or, by agreement with them, to other persons, is punished with imprisonment from six months to three years and with a fine from 309 euro to 2.065 euros, even when the promised utility has been concealed under the title of financial compensation given to the voter for travel or subsistence expenses, etc. We must help the judiciary to find solutions for the primary to be equated with the elections. This is also the opinion of several members of the Democratic Party, including the House. In fact, I was talking about it yesterday with some honourable Members of the Democratic Party. Let us realize that, as in the case of Liguria, the candidate President, whose candidacy has not yet been formalized, precisely in the light of these 25 very serious cases, could become president of all the Ligurians, and not only of a political part. Therefore, the future of an entire Region passes through the primary. Surveys carried out by us as Liguria Civica say that, before the flood 85 percent, and after the flood 67 percent of Ligurians believe that the winner of the primary will become the President of the Liguria region. It is therefore possible that it is said in such a superficial way by Raffaella Paita, who is the candidate who would win (and which I take as an example to explain the sub-amendment): I won by 4000 votes. Even if I had to take away seats, I would have won the same. But I don't want a president who won by stealing a single vote! I don't go to the supermarket, I shop for 100 euros and then, if I'm surprised I stole a lot of potatoes, I say it's just a lot of potatoes. Are you kidding me? But this is about the moral and ethical situation of the party! And what are the party and the candidate exposed to from here to the May elections? To a campaign of all the other parties that will be able to accuse them of being thieves; people who have connivances with the mafia, with the ndrangheta; people who lead to vote the children of 16 years of football schools, who then will not be able to vote in the urn. People who lead to vote on immigrants, who would have the full right to vote, but who, without papers, do not. And five euros are paid outside the seats. And isn't such an election canceled? It would be an act of honor for the dignity of the Democratic Party to cancel such an election, and to realize that it is offending an entire Region. Fortunately there are SELs and pieces of the Democratic Party that have dignity, because the rest of the Democratic Party in Liguria is losing it, as in many other parts of Italy. High members of the Democratic Party compared the case of Genoa to Mafia Capitale. The cases are the same and you can't go over them superficially as the candidate is trying to do, which, by the way, is linked to a system of power that has been destroying our region for 100 years, nor can the Democratic Party. A few hours ago is the news that, with dignity, the secretary of Savona, Briano, went to the attorney of Savona to make also a verbal statement on serious events that occurred. Certainly the Democratic Party must, first of all, make an analysis to understand whether, as in the case of Naples, these elections should not be cancelled; and then carefully evaluate my sub-amendment, which seeks to equate the civil and criminal consequences of the elections with those of the primary ones. What is happening in the prosecutors, in fact, is a really still very difficult speech to carry on, because there are still those who claim that the primaries are private elections. Of course, if you get to pay to become a candidate, compared to this fact you create a space to open files at the Savona Public Prosecutor's Office. In Genoa, instead, it seems that there are really mafia infiltrations in a section and, therefore, this could be a reason that would lead the DIA to deal with this case. I call on the Democratic Party to evaluate my sub-amendment, which has been drafted very quickly, because I, like so many other colleagues, have come to know in an absolutely impromptu way that I have only one hour to table further amendments. We wrote it in a hurry, but I think it's still a sign. It is certainly a very political sub-amendment and I really hope that it will be accepted, for my region, but also for the Democratic Party and for all other parties. It is not in fact a sub-amendment tabled for the Democratic Party, because it is written that all parties that want to take advantage of the primary to identify their candidate will have to submit to civil and criminal norms such as those that regulate the elections of the members of the representative bodies of the Italian State.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u122	This concludes the explanation of the amendments to Article 1 of draft law No 1385. As agreed, I refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u125	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, next January 17th is the deadline by which citizens, associations and committees must send their observations to the Ministry of Economic Development on the project of the Snam called Adriatic Network, a mega-gas pipeline of 687 kilometres that would cross most of the national territory, from Massafra to Minerbio, passing through the area of Sulmona, an area characterized by particular environmental value and a very high seismic risk. More precisely, the section of the Sulmona-Foligno methane pipeline, which would extend for 167 kilometers, would also cover the areas affected by the earthquake of the Eagle of 2009, including the active faults of Arischia, Pettino and Mount Morrone. The project which, therefore, is being pursued, despite the continuous request of citizens and committees to block it or at least to be able to discuss it, would be very dangerous for the safety and health of citizens and, as mentioned above, would also involve many sites of Community importance and areas with special protection of Community interest, characterised by unique natural and cultural resources. I have raised this issue several times in this House, calling for the answer to my question in the Commission, No 3-01120, to which I have not yet been answered. In this act of inspection union that I had initially presented as questioning No 2-00057, I asked the Government when it intends to implement the resolution unanimously approved by the Chamber Environment Commission on 26 October 2011. With a view to the expiry of the deadline for submitting comments, I would like to ask the Government to respond promptly to the question and invite all citizens to submit their comments. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u126	The Presidency will forward its request to the offices.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u127	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-377.ana.u128	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 19 January, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 14.59 p.m.
