ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u4	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1598. The rapporteur, Senator Zin, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, draft law No 1598 authorizes the ratification and enforcement of the agreement signed in 2013 between Italy and Chile, which aims to allow members of the family to work for diplomatic staff. This agreement is virtually the same as the one discussed at the afternoon sitting, which refers to Argentina, which aims to facilitate the work of the members of the staff of diplomatic and consular missions. Also in this case, the agreement extends also to the family members of the representations accredited to the Holy See and the international bodies with headquarters in their respective territories. The subsequent articles define the authorisation procedures, the applicability of local tax and social and labour security legislation and the non-applicability of immunity. The draft ratification law consists of three articles, which provide for the approval of ratification, the order of execution and the entry into force of the agreement in question. Again, the application of the measure does not result in any burden or lower revenue from the State budget. In conclusion, it is proposed that the Assembly approve this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u10	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u11	Madam President, my colleague, Senator Candiani, invites me to deliver the written speech. On the other hand, I would just like to say that the measure, as explained by the rapporteur, has very specific and acceptable aims. Therefore, I would like to refer to what has already been said several times in the Commission, and I would like to stress that this is a measure which we share, a concept which I will repeat very quickly also in the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u12	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u13	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u15	Stitches (LN-Aut). Madam President, since I have been told that I have to be a man of my word, I am referring to what I have said before, so I declare and confirm the vote in favour of the League Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u18	LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, I would just like to declare my Group's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u21	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u22	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u23	The next item is the debate on draft law 1649, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Bertorotta, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u24	Madam President, the draft law before us, which has already been adopted by the House, authorizes the ratification and enforcement of the European Convention for the Protection of Archaeological Heritage, dating back to 1992. The text, drawn up within the framework of the Council of Europe, signed by 46 countries and ratified by 42 already, aims to offer greater legal guarantees to protect the archaeological heritage of the States Parties, defined as the source of European collective memory and instrument of historical and scientific study. The document, composed of 18 articles, updated the contents of a previous Treaty of the Council of Europe, dating back to 1969 and ratified by Italy in 1973. Specifically, the text aims at the adoption of a legal regime aimed at the protection of the archaeological heritage and the integrated conservation of goods, while at the same time seeking to reconcile the needs of archaeology with those of urban and territorial planning, to offer public financial support for research, to promote the collection and dissemination of scientific information, the mutual technical and scientific assistance, the raising of awareness of the public and the possibility of wider use of the archaeological heritage, and to prevent the illicit circulation of elements of this heritage. The Convention also outlines an institutional framework for cooperation and systematic exchange of experience and experts between the Parties. More in detail, with reference to identification and protection measures, Article 2 commits countries to the adoption of a legal regime for the protection of archaeological heritage that includes the management of an inventory, the formation of archaeological reserves and the obligation to denounce the authorities of new discoveries. Article 3 lays down common criteria for procedures for the authorisation and control of excavations and archaeological activities, to discourage illegality and to ensure the scientific significance of research. Article 4 provides for measures for the physical protection of the assets, through the purchase, conservation and maintenance of the assets, including through the creation of deposits for the objects removed from the place of origin. With regard to integrated heritage conservation measures, Article 5 commits the countries to reconcile the needs of archaeology with those of territorial development, encouraging the greatest possible participation of archaeologists in planning policies and territorial development programmes. The following Article 6 commits the signatory countries to finance archaeological research through the various national and territorial public authorities and to increase the means for preventive archaeology. Articles 7 and 8 provide for the collection and dissemination of scientific information, including a commitment to facilitate, at national and international level, the exchange of archaeological material for scientific purposes, and to promote the exchange of information on archaeological research and the organisation of international research programmes. Article 9 commits States to raising public awareness of the archaeological heritage and its value and to promoting its accessibility. The following Article 10 provides for measures aimed at preventing the illicit circulation of archaeological heritage, committing countries to the exchange of information between authorities and scientific institutions on illegal excavations, to provide information on materials suspected of coming from illegal excavations or stolen from official excavations, to the adoption of measures necessary to prevent museums or similar institutions from purchasing illegal archaeological materials, and finally to the limitation of the movement of illegal archaeological heritage. Article 12 of the Convention, which lays down measures for mutual technical and scientific assistance between countries, is also of interest. The draft law consists of four articles which form, respectively, the authorization to ratify, the order of execution, the financial coverage and the entry into force of the text. The total costs - mainly related to mission expenses for the expert referred to in Article 13 of the Convention, aimed at monitoring the application of the text - are estimated at approximately EUR 2,500 per year.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u25	Colleagues, let's greet the students and students of the Istituto comprensivo - S. Giovanni Bosco-Alessandro Manzoni in Toritto, in the province of Bari, who sit on the first floor of the stands and to whom we welcome. [[Applause]] We now greet the students and students of the Istituto Casagrande di Pieve di Soligo, in the province of Treviso, who are on the second floor of the stands. Welcome all to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u26	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u27	Madam President, the measure before us draws particular attention to the fact that when we talk about archaeology we are talking about a very important cultural aspect of history, not only of Italy but of all 96 signatory countries to this Convention, although not all have ratified it yet. It is important to remember that this measure has already obtained the support of our Group in the House because it is called for these places to be accessible and for everyone to benefit from the knowledge of important parts of our past. Moreover, as Professor Rochet argued, one of the most important aspects that gives the measure of the level of culture of a country is precisely the possibility to know its own identity roots and archaeology shows very important pieces of identity roots. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u28	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u31	Stitches (LN-Aut). Madam President, in view of the importance of the measure, I cannot fail to declare the Lega Nord Group's vote in favour. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u34	Mr Bertoretta, rapporteur. Madam President, I, too, of course, am voting in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u37	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u38	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u39	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1577. I would remind you that at the afternoon sitting on 8 April a proposal was tabled not to move on to the examination of the articles and the general discussion ended. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, in the face of a measure like this, which affects the principles of administrative activity, which affects very important institutions, such as the Conference of Services, the "silence-consensus" and self-protection; in the face of a measure which introduces the delegation on digital citizenship in an organic way; in the face of a measure which has two delegations, which are undervalued overall, but which, in my view, also have a very significant scope in anti-corruption, such as the delegation on local public services and the delegation on participating companies; in the face of a measure which also affects the public organisation, intervening on the peripheral territorial office of the State, on the overall organisation of peripheral offices, on the chambers of commerce, and which introduces the premises for an organic and significant reform of the work on the part of the public administration, particularly affecting the legal status of public managers; in the face of such a measure, the debate substantially records a bottom-up sharing of which, as rapporteur, I can only take note with satisfaction. In fact, it shows in practice that the measure as it came out of the work, very significant, carried out in Parliament has a basic consensus. This is to be deduced from the fact that basically the issues on which the debate took place are very limited and very particular. The debate revealed, as far as public leadership is concerned, the concern about the relationship between technical and political, that is, the concern that the revocability of the office may give rise to a weakness of the public leadership towards political power. It is clear that we are faced with a change made necessary by the overall assessment of the state of the public administration and also by very recent episodes that pose us in the face of the fact that we need a public leadership that has a strong and flexible professionalism, that does not think of the immovability as value, and the position in a given entity as a position until the end of a career on which perhaps also consolidate a personal power. The administration, like politics, is at the service of the citizens and therefore cannot be in this logic that the management is configured; the management more than ever in the modern dynamics must be capable of mobility and able to consolidate the dignity of a professionalism both in comparison with the members of its own category of managers, and towards the public administrators. The discipline proposed to this House is a discipline that certainly lays the foundations for the leadership to recover all its professional dignity, all its legal dignity and for the revocability of the office to be simply an end to the mandate after which the competition with all the other managers is faced, a competition open to all those who want to participate. There is therefore, with these premises, in the novelty of the design, nothing that will affect the relationship between politics and leadership, especially when the leadership and politics, precisely by virtue of these reforms, are brought back in their hives and in their hives. There is another issue that has emerged both with regard to the silent assent, and with regard to the Conference of Services and concerns the terms set for the statement of its opinions in the relations between administrations. I believe that from this point of view, beyond the fact that it is certainly necessary that there is then a revision of the organic envelopes in order to make these principles concretely feasible, this is a sacrosanct forecast, in that it prevents the abuse of competence, that is, the use of their competences not to contribute to the definition of public measures and decisions, but to prevent, delay or unduly condition decisions. This abuse of powers is absolutely unconstitutional: it violates Article 97 of the Constitution, because it claims to have a surreptitious impact on the material Constitution, on the principles of the division of competences and of loyal collaboration between the powers of the State. In this key, the definition of short times and the silence of assent between public administrations have a strong meaning both of bringing the relationship between administrations back into the womb of the Constitution and of engraving on the current customs. I believe that it can really help to ensure that the relationship of loyal cooperation between administrations develops in the best possible way so that the principle-duty of speedy decisions is a principle and a duty consecrated and made effective. Then there is a subject that has been very interested in the debate and the general debate and that has also seen, in recent days, some reflections perhaps not properly adapted to the role. I am referring to the State Forestry Corps. From this point of view, I would like to point out immediately that the delegation has a problem with the reorganization of police functions, the reorganization of agri-food protection and food safety functions. This is a rationalization design aimed at overcoming overlaps, duplications and interference between the different rules in relation to the overall police system. In this area the delegation pays attention to agri-food safety by addressing the issue of a different organisation without penalising the functions related to the sector which - I repeat - will not be penalised by delegation. In the latter it is properly specified - and in any case there is a debate put back to the House - that the functions will be clarified and defined. The principles of unity, competence and professionalism are also protected. That is what I thought I should say in reply, on the basis of what has emerged in general discussion. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u41	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u42	Madam President, I can only begin this reply by thanking the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: President Finocchiaro and all the members - I am referring both to the majority and opposition groups - who in the course of the in-depth debate have never had obstructive attitudes, but have always participated, sometimes sharing and others not the different points of the delegation, but always in a legitimate and timely manner. Of course, I would also like to thank Mr Rughetti, my staff and the officials of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as well as all the senators who spoke in general debate last week, who have shown to a large extent that they understand first of all the spirit of this bill. I think, for example, of Senator Cociancich, who in his speech immediately highlighted how this is not a sector reform, but for the country. It is a reform for the country that enters into an overall strategy that the Government is putting in place in order to succeed to return Italy to being protagonist in the context of a new European economic strategy. That is why we know that there is a need for systemic reform of the state which we are pursuing with three basic measures. I refer to Law No. 56 of 2014, already the law of the State and today in its implementation path, a law that exceeds the functions of the Provinces as we remember them and which assigns to the same two essential functions; to the bill Boschi that, in Title V, gives clearly competences to State and Regions, overcoming the reasons of the innumerable conflicts of attribution that, to current legislation, have given our citizens a State unable to respond promptly to their needs and, finally, to the bill delegation of reform of the public administration that we are going to vote in this Chamber. What is the main theme of these reforms that approach state reform? It is always one and synthesizes itself with one word: simplicity. We know that these years have brought to light a state that is too complicated in the different levels of administration, in the excess of regulatory production; too complicated for our citizens, as well as for our entrepreneurs, who had an idea, perhaps wanted to make an investment, but then they found themselves a counterpart state and not by the side. All this has discouraged investment; it has discouraged citizens from their right to quality public services. All this, in short, has discouraged an important part of our country's growth. What is in particular in this bill as an element of simplicity? I believe that the most important point is that drawn with determination and passion by Senator Lanzillotta, i.e. digital citizenship. We know that this is the issue that will make a real difference to the success of public administration reform. I was also discussing this at a university this morning with many young people and girls who, among all the aspects we face in this bill, focused their attention on the subject of digital citizenship, that is, that today innovation as a means allows us to have the technique available to give our citizens, our entrepreneurs the opportunity to receive in their places, on their phone rather than on their home computer or office, through a digital identification, all the information that concerns them with respect to the administration, then to take advantage of all the public services through the digital medium and to fulfill all the duties they have with the administration, always through the digital services. I believe that this is the real point that makes this bill a measure not so much and not only for the modernization of the country, but above all for the democracy of this country, because if we manage to give 60 million residents the opportunity to take advantage of public services in certain times and with transparency - and this is digital citizenship - we immediately did the reform of the public administration that really becomes a flywheel of development for the country. Then there are a number of other interventions that are always part of the line of simplicity: simplicity, for example, of decision-making processes. Senator Pagliari - whom I thank for the constant work we have done together - has mentioned several aspects: I am thinking of self-protection, the Conference of Services, silence and consensus between administrations. I think of that important rule, addressed in several of your interventions, where you give a delegation to the Government to clarify once and for all what citizens and entrepreneurs can do with SCIA and silence-consent and what instead needs express permission. In addition to the simplifications on the decision-making processes there are also simplifications in the ways of organizing our state. I want to make it clear here: there has never been an approach of simple rationalization; there has never been a start from cost-cutting needs, but there has always been the approach of seeing a State as leaner and simpler as a State that is more effective and more efficient for citizens. That is why we think it is important to provide for a single physical link between the citizen and the central state, and this is the Government's Territorial Office. That is why we want to group the periphery of the state into a single physical office to get out of that practice, which is unfortunately well established, so even administrations of the same level of government end up blocking each other because they do not communicate or communicate badly with each other. It is always with this logic that we have wanted to halve the number of chambers of commerce, but above all we have wanted to link this half-life - which in turn is linked to the halving of a compulsory contribution for the enterprises, with consequent reduction of the costs - to the functions defined so that the chambers of commerce are really a support to our entrepreneurship and not instead a brake. It is always according to this logic that we have intervened on the police forces, recognizing in them a fundamental element for our country. At the same time, we have also recognised that resources can be used better, managing together the associated services - I am thinking of purchases, legal offices - avoiding duplication of roles and rationalising the chain of command. On this I want to reassure all those who in the speeches in general have legitimately told their fears about the necessary and fundamental garrison of our wonderful territory. In particular, with regard to the absorption of the State Forestry Corps into one of the other police bodies, I would like to point out that the delegation criterion identified following the discussion in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs guarantees all the fears that have been legitimately expressed in this House. Since this was precisely the point on which the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was most extensive, I think it would be useful to recall the fact that, just after this discussion in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it has been established - this is the text proposed by the Commission on the reorganisation of the State administration - that the guarantee of the current levels of protection of the environment and territory must remain firm, as well as that of agri-food safety and that existing professionalism must be safeguarded, the specialty of the Body and its unity. There is therefore no fear of less control and less protection of our territory; if ever, by rationalizing a chain of command, we can have more protection of the territory than we have today. The third strand of simplification contained in this bill is the regulatory one. We have decided to address the issue of regulatory simplification by choosing certain policy areas, for which we propose the adoption of single simplification texts. Among these areas there is, first and foremost, that of the public service: by rewriting the single text on public employment - I agree with Senator Torrisi and the delegation criteria approved in the Commission - we will make sure that we get out of the decadent and guiltyly humiliating representation that has taken place in recent years, even with the guilty complicity of some parts of politics, for which all public workers are equal and must be punished and penalized. It's not like that. There are many workers and many workers who, despite this decadent representation, continue to carry on every day essential services for our country and for our citizens, such as school, health, tax, justice. It is precisely in response to the value of these people that, by simplifying the legislation on public employment, thanks to the criteria of delegation, we will introduce rewarding mechanisms that enhance those who do good and penalise and punish obviously those who hurt. The other two strategic areas of regulatory simplification that we have decided to include in this bill are those of public participation and local public services. In this regard, I would like to respond to Senator Endrizzi, who used the term "lucro": for us "lucro" is wasting the resources of the community, because they are resources that come from the taxes paid by our citizens, as for us it is "lucro" to use those resources without being able to give excellent quality and services to all citizens. These will be the objectives that we will pursue by adopting these two unique texts. In a number of speeches, but above all in the constitutional prejudices that have been presented, the focus has been on the subject of leadership. In this Chamber too, I have told you that, in a debate with the President-in-Office of the Council too, we have come to the choice of the single role, which is the choice of an autonomous and politically independent leadership and which therefore respects not only formally but substantially Article 97 of our Constitution. I am basically saying because in the past years we have had so much maladministration that, with repeated precariousness, in fact it did not respect the Constitution, which provides access to the administration by competition. No, we want to respect Article 97 of our Constitution, especially for the leadership, because we believe in an autonomous and politically independent leadership, but we also believe that recognizing autonomy and independence from leadership policy does not mean immovability, it does not mean that we cannot predict the career paths of assessments that affect positions of greater or lesser responsibility. Therefore, the Constitution not only respects it, but exalts that Article 97 by focusing on leadership as the Constitution demands of us, but we also believe that it is essential that the best can have more responsibility and less good duties of less responsibility; moreover, if indeed they have demonstrated, with absolutely cautious mechanisms, that they have been poor in their performance, we believe that we can expect an exit from the role, obviously on the basis of evaluation mechanisms and never on arbitrary choices. I also respond to the evocative image of Senator Crimi, who has often participated in the Commission even on time in the discussion, but who in the intervention in general discussion brought to our attention a very suggestive image in relation to the passage of a manager of Agcom to Mediaset. I realize that the image is evocative, but it is the result of a series of inaccuracies that I try to put in line. The first is that the single role does not concern the independent authorities and the second is that with Decree-Law No. 90 of 2014, an appetizer of the reform of the public administration, which we converted into law in August, we have tightened the incompatibility and the exit times for which the members of the authorities could not go to work in places and societies that had previously checked. Thirdly, if we also talk about the unique role of managers (which has nothing to do with Agcom), it is not this Government that introduces the fact that there may be a time of expectation in which we go in private, but it is already provided for in current legislation; not only do we not change it, but we do not change the incompatibility regimes either. All this to say that the image - I realize it - was suggestive, but the result of many inaccuracies. Instead, I quiet the Senator Cuomo: already in the law of stability we wanted - because it is right to say so - to protect the winners of competition not assumed that, like the employees of the Provinces that will be moved by the Provinces because no longer occupied with the essential functions of the law Delrio, they will have to have that place that belongs to them and that it was the result of a scandal that they did not already have, because there still existed a double authorization (one to ban and one to assume), but this prediction we have healed with decree-law n. 90 of 2014. I conclude with the real challenge of this reform, which is certainly to approve this draft law definitively in the various branches of Parliament, but above all to implement it. We are already working on the legislative decrees, but we also know that the rate of reformism is not measured in the quantity of laws that are adopted. This is a reform that will need a huge effort to implement and so I really believe that the more we will share the spirit and start a collective effort of the country and the intermediate bodies, the more there will be a good result of the positive effects of this bill. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u43	I inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing it - has received the opinions of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u46	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have always hoped for reforms that could make public administration more efficient, but we believe that this bill has many shortcomings. Mr Bernini, Mr Bruno and Mr Mazzoni, who have followed and will follow many aspects of the work in the Commission, have regularly commented on the individual points. I would now like to highlight a number of issues that lead us to share the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles. First I heard the Minister talk about the local public services affair. I hope that the measures announced will lead to an improvement in quality. I recall that the political part of which I belong, the centre-right, with the Berlusconi Governments, made a reform of local public services very useful, important and valuable, which was boycotted by large sectors of politics and Parliament. That reform was then cancelled with a referendum based on frankly untruthful arguments. I take the example of water, but it is not the only one of public services: it was said that there was the privatization of water, while there was only greater efficiency of services and openness to private capital. But that was the theme of the referendum campaign that in fact reached the quorum. I still remember some pictures and manifestations of children who were taken from the water. That was not the content of the reform: it was rather the attempt to prevent, through a more correct management and a depoliticization of the managements of which many speak, a waste, considering that the water resources in this country are abundantly wasted. We have therefore been the bearers of genuine reforms of local public services, approved and then - alas - on the basis of lawful and democratic procedures (the repealing referendums are part of our Constitution), deleted. It seems to me that what is expected today is much less than the serious and courageous reform that we did, so our criticism is about the inadequacy of the objectives that this reform achieves. I see the Minister is leaving. I wanted to say something about the matter of the Forestry Corps, referring to what Minister Madia said, but I see that he does not want to listen rudely. (The President indicated the benches of the Government.) I know there are other representatives of the government, Mr President, but I would have liked the Minister to have listened, so he could have deepened his knowledge as we deepen our listening to his arguments. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] He is obviously such an experienced politician that he does not need to listen to Parliament. Minister Madia said about the Forest Corps of the State about the incorrect things. In fact, what did he say? Which, according to this proxy, doesn't change anything. I thank you for coming back. As I said, the Minister said that nothing changes because it safeguards the specificity, the type of interventions and the action of the State Forestry Corps. Then why do we have to go and place him here or there? I would like to point out to my colleagues - because I know that the State Forestry Corps has been at the heart of speeches and concerns by colleagues from all the Groups, including the majority - that today on "La Stampa" in Turin there is a beautiful page that reports of a conference promoted yesterday by CGIL on security issues. At this conference, Mr Fiano, who I know and I think is well known to many colleagues, and who deals with security issues in the Democratic Party with passion and competence, reported - I read - "La Stampa" - I was not at the conference - that the State Forestry Corps, on the basis of this delegation, can be placed - read "La Stampa" if you do not believe what I say, and if it is false Fiano disproves journalists - or in the Carabinieri Arm or in the State Police. Small detail: the Carabinieri's weapon is a police force with general military jurisdiction, while the State Police, according to Law No 121 of 1981, which I imagine Minister Madia knows by heart, is a police force demilitarized for 33 years now. So, 2:00 a.m. Fiano is not a politician who speaks at random, but he is responsible for security; he is not a senator, he is a Member, so he will survive us as a Parliamentary Assembly, since the Senate will then spy. So, where does this forest guy go, the police or the carabinieri? They're remilitarized, they're re-military members of the Forest Corps? Or are they going somewhere else? But can you give a blank proxy? Extricate this rule, ladies and gentlemen, and let us deepen the matter. I would not like - and I also say this to my colleagues who have doubts - to allow the President-in-Office of the Council to slide, saying that we had five police forces and now we have four. There's no saving. I will stop here, because I am intervening on the proposal not to move on to the articles; we will return to the subject if our proposal for a pause for reflection is not accepted. However, I hope that the vote will be in favour of the proposal not to move to the articles. There are no economic savings, but there will only be organizational chaos. Yesterday's conference, with the news that the members of the Forestry Corps will go to the Carabinieri or the Police, has sown more confusion. If it is true that everything remains the same as before and that the chain of command is simplified, this means that those who direct a police force that has specific features will be commanded by people who do other jobs. A quaestor does a very delicate job, which however is different from that of a leader of the State Forestry Corps. I shall conclude on this point. Today we have erected the National Anti-Mafia Attorney Roberti also to National Anti-Terrorist Attorney. We did not vote for trust, but the decree-law was already in force and today it has been finally converted into law. This decree-law also attributed to the National Anti-Mafia Public Prosecutor's Office the tasks of National Anti-Terrorism Prosecutor's Office. So the national anti-mafia prosecutor, who is a competent person, yesterday in an article published in the "Corriere della sera" said to pay attention to the land of fires, to the control of the territory, to the eco-afies, to agri-food crime. I believe that, in addition to voting for the non-passionate examination of the articles, a "stralcetto" of that delegation would not be bad. Then there is also the provincial police, who have remained on the street and you do not know what will have to do. A little thought should therefore be given. It is not known whether the Forestry Corps will have to pass through the Carabinieri, the Police or even the Finance Guard. What's that? Attribution of numbers? It's serious. With the security and public administration of this country, you don't mess with it. Yes to reforms, no to improvisation. That is why we shall be voting in favour of the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u49	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, we shall be voting against the articles for various reasons, which have already been referred to in the questions referred for a preliminary ruling before the start of the general debate. Our vote is primarily due to the extent of the delegation. This delegation deals practically with all issues related to public administration, ranging from transparency and service conference to the police force, sometimes relegating entire reforms to four words: I reorder police functions. That's the whole reform. I reorder police functions: this can mean anything and nothing, opening practically a delegation that remains standing for as long as it takes. It will be 12 months in the case of the various legislative decrees, plus the time necessary for the amendments that will become necessary later. Another reason why we will vote for the non-transition to examine the articles is because during the work in the Commission we have actually seen that on some important issues such as management and, in particular, municipal secretaries, the State Forestry Corps and chambers of commerce the Commission had a widely shared position that was not that of the Government. In the Commission's work it was clear that the will of the same majority was oppressed: Senators of the majority had to vote against their amendments because the government's opinion was that. These were not isolated amendments, but tabled to the Group by four or five senators. Let's talk about the members of the majority and the Democratic Party. There has therefore been a series of violations of the respect of the roles between the Government and Parliament. We will vote in favour of the non-transition to the examination of the articles for that article 15, introduced at the end, which provides for the broad ease by the Government to be able to amend and repeal legal provisions that provide for the adoption of implementing measures that have not been implemented with the related regulations or decrees perhaps simply because the conditions have changed. However, we do not know what these conditions are and we have not been given a list, although we have been told that we have already made clear the framework of the measures considered no longer practicable or exceeded. And yet, we didn't have them. Finally, I come to one of the most important reasons: this measure is linked to the financial manoeuvre. As such, the opinions of the Budget Commission should have had an important value throughout the measure. And, in fact, by reading the Reports or the opinions of the Budget Commission, we realize that the same has found that some articles and parts introduced into the Commission have not been submitted to its opinion. They should be reviewed. We are talking about the same Article 15 in which the safeguard clause was to be introduced, but this has not been done. That is what the Commission says. It is written; I am not inventing it: read the summary reports of the Commission. You should stop and start over trying to deal with the issues separately. When you make an omnibus measure like this, the majority can only vote on the measure in its entirety and a large part of the majority will be forced to vote - and I make an invitation to all - in order not to create a crisis of government in the dark an entire measure of which it will have to digest bitter bites. We have had the confidence of what they are during the work of the Commission, from the Forest to the municipal secretaries, on which there are quite different positions between the Government and a large part of the Commission which, in my opinion, represents a large majority of this House. I hope that this House will have the courage not only to vote in favour of not going through the articles, but also to have the courage, during the vote on the amendments, not to flatten itself to the will of the government and to decide by giving that priority to Parliament over the government in the legislation. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u52	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). We shall vote in favour of the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles because we have had the opportunity, even in the same preliminary constitutionality, to highlight and to the attention of the House a series of critical remarks and profiles, in our opinion, very sensitive from the point of view of constitutional compatibility. In fact, not going to the articles is not just a rite, but it is also an attempt to highlight some particularly critical aspects in this House, on which I am still appealing. Obviously, during the examination of the individual amendments and in the continuation of the debate, which I hope will not happen because we hope that we can approve the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles, we think that there can be further reflection within the majority and by the Government. In particular, as far as we are concerned, three issues are of particular concern to us and we also consider them particularly critical. We continue to believe that it is not precise enough to indicate the objectives and directives, also in general and like all the delegations recently, the delegation on the reform, of which there is certainly need. A broad delegation that - alas - as we have seen in other delegations risks, in the legislative decrees and in the schemes submitted to the Commissions, not to give the Government the comfort of the views of the Commission itself. However, there would be a need for an additional discussion, in particular on the issue (which I strongly propose and which involves Articles 2 and 3) of the reorganization of the Conference of Services and the silent assent (which is what we are most concerned about). In our system the principle of silence consent with regard to bodies and administrations responsible for the protection of the environment, cultural heritage, landscape and health (all constitutionally protected values) has always been rejected. This even in the most difficult times for the environment of this country, when we have witnessed procedures and measures of particularly negative impact on the environment. This principle applies to many administrations, but not to those responsible for environmental protection. I believe there is a need to return to the Commission to investigate further. The second question on which there is a political profile is as follows. How do you act with a proxy? This is an opposite argument to that made by my colleague Senator Gasparri regarding the issue of local public services. In particular, on this subject we should arrive at a measure of deletion and a thorough reflection. We have also worked to point out a matter of minimum respect. Constitutional reform will soon return to the Senate. Let us not talk again, saying that we will make the referendum easier. No one cares about the outcome of this referendum. They went to vote on millions of citizens in June 2011. For the first time there was a quorum again. These citizens have expressed very clear views on water and water services. On the basis of a great work done over the years by associations and municipalities, it has been said that water is a common good and must be public. In this delegation, however, a reverse operation is carried out. Thanks to our vague insistences we write: "Taking into account", but the priority is certainly not that of respect for the referendum results, as it should have been in a delegation. In a democracy that has incidentally, and unfortunately few, instruments of direct participation, such as referendum, that should be the law, because sovereignty is of the people that it has decided and at that moment it has actually legislated by repealing some laws. The third point concerns municipal secretaries. We have discussed and, to be honest, some progress has also been made, but not satisfactory. In a situation like the one we live in this country - and I say here publicly that I have signed the bill of Senators Philippi and Zanda for the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry into the procurement system and more - we need to forcefully restore a point and a criterion of legality and legitimacy: you must not abolish municipal secretaries; instead you must give them back appropriate functions. Today, in fact, in the serious situation in which our country is in, since every week comes out one, it should be restored the possibility, which has been removed from the municipal secretaries, to express the preventive opinion of legitimacy on the acts. We should therefore consider or try to find a very different solution, because the text proposed by the Commission itself is not enough. The last issue I would like to address is that of the Forest Guard: dear Gasparri, not in this delegation, as the Democratic Party's Security Officer said at the conference you mentioned, but in the DEF that you do not understand if it is a bit here and a bit further, which is even more serious. What is said in order to reassure - and the representative of the Government and the Minister have said so now - is actually denied by the DEF itself and its content. I keep saying that this aspect really deserved an excerpt in order to be able to make such a reasoning as we have all done in the Commission. Is there a need? Very well, let's get on the field, reorder and rationalise: in the rationalization operation, however, we must obviously start from the police forces that do more or less the same things and have generalist functions. Also look at the numbers: between Police and Carabinieri there are 200,000 units, while the Prison Police has 38,000. So let's rationalize the smaller and more specialized police force in anticipation of absorption. They mentioned Roberti, but he explained it clearly: even to make sure not only that the investigations go ahead, but that then the issues keep in court, in court, you have to have someone who has the technical and scientific skills to do them. This is the work that has been done in recent years to combat environmental crimes: now, at a time when, after twenty years, it is hoped that the House will finally approve the bill that introduces environmental crimes into the penal code, what do we do? Instead, we demobilise and weaken the police force, while the reverse operation should be carried out: do a job with the provincial police in order to realize a real body - rationalizing, reorganizing and strengthening - specialized in environmental police and protection of biodiversity. What do you rationalize, the barracks in the parks? You're putting the cops in there? Or do you think, in the end, there is savings? 90% of the costs are due to the staff: what do you save, about the 30 million, among other things covered by all the fines that the Forest Guard collects? No, you will spend more, because you will also have to redo their uniforms, to put them only under the head of the police: with all due respect, this will inevitably lead to a weakening of the specialization. They're gonna use the staff under the quaestors, maybe for public order, while we have the opposite need in this country, where three environmental crimes are committed every hour. We will continue to fight for the protection of biodiversity and animals, even if Senator Giovanardi does not like it. I therefore call on everyone to vote on the return of the text to the Commission and therefore on the non-transition of the articles. I also hope that I have opened a few doors in the majority and in the government. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Groups and the Roman Senators Maurizio, Bignami and Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u55	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u56	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of the proposal not to proceed to the examination of NP1 articles by Senator Martelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u57	Colleagues, we greet the students and students of the Istituto tecnico Statale (State Technical Institute) Marie Curie in Naples. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u58	I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the draft law under consideration. I ask the House to pay particular attention and to lower its voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u59	The Commission's economic planning function, budget, examined the bill in title, expresses, as far as it is competent, opinion: of simple contrary to Article 1 (1) (c) of the Constitution, conditional, pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, to the deletion of the words "for all citizens," not prejudiced, pursuant to the same constitutional rule, on Article 1 (1) (l), to the insertion, after the word "responsible" of the following words: "identified within the current factual endowment of the same office,"; of simple contrary to Article 7 (4); of simple contrary to Article 9 (1) (b) (1) conditional, pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, to the deletion of the words: "the chambers of commerce, industry, crafts and agriculture" and to their eventual insertion in Article 8 (1) of the Constitution, or to the paragraph 3 of Article 9 (1) (b) of the same sentence, to the absence of the same word: "in the first application" to: "public finance"; contrary, pursuant to Article 8 (1) of the Constitution, to Article 9 (1) (b) of the same paragraph, to Article 9, point (b), to the same) of Article 9, point (b), to the same word (b), to the same word, to the same word, The opinion is without prejudice to the remaining parts of the text. It should also be noted that Article 9, paragraph 1, letter c), numbers 1) and 2, foreshadowing the recruitment of directors of the constitutional bodies through the course-competition or the general competition of the public administration, interferes with the accounting and functional autonomy of the aforementioned bodies, which is expressed, among other things, in the formulation of staff requirements, in the identification of the necessary professionalism, in the particular procedure for dealing with recruitment disputes. Finally, it should be noted that Article 10 (4) does not cover small amounts but carries a risk of dequalification of expenditure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the opinion expressed by the 5th Permanent Commission pursuant to article 126 -bis, paragraph 2 -quater, of the Rules of Procedure, the following provisions of the draft law are inadmissible: Article 9, paragraph 1, letter b), number 4, limited to the words from: "in the absence of any heading until the end, and letter c), numbers 1) and 2, in the part concerning the constitutional bodies; Article 12, paragraph 1, letter p). Therefore, the amendments relating to these provisions are absorbed or lapsed. As regards the conditional opinion under Article 81 of the Constitution on other articles and paragraphs of the text proposed by the Commission, these comments have been incorporated into specific amendments tabled by the rapporteur. If these amendments are not accepted by the Assembly, the parts of the text referred to them will be declared inadmissible pursuant to Rule 126 -bis, paragraph 2 -quater, of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u63	LANZILLOTTA (PD). Madam President, I am speaking because we are dealing with a very sensitive issue. As you announced earlier, the effects of the Budgetary Committee's opinions on the related drafts of law are very strong because they essentially involve the abolition of the rules on which there has been no favourable opinion under Article 81 of the Constitution or the substantial and automatic correction by means of amendments by the rapporteur. I would ask you, if possible, to follow me. I would like to make two comments. The first concerns the conditional opinion given by the Commission on Article 1 (1) (l). This provision, incorporated in the text, is the result of an amendment, which was numbered 1 500/23, on which the Budget Commission gave no objection on 5 March. Then, on 15 April, the Budget Commission amends its opinion and conditions, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, the admissibility of this provision to the inclusion of an impact which risks sterilizing the effect of the legislation. I'll explain. It would have done well for the Budget Commission to clarify what is implicit in the rule, namely that there should be an invariance of financial resources. To say, however, that this constraint is achieved by means of a method which is to identify the manager who leads the transition to digital within the current actually organic endowment of the same office means to invade the competence of the 1st Commission and, implicitly, to declare that we do not understand what we are talking about. The de facto staff of the management does not exist, because all management posts are financed in the budget and because these offices are sometimes not covered, if there is no cover in that office, the new manager is not appointed. I believe that in many ministries this rule has not been accepted very favorably. The second objection which I raise is the one contained in the opinion regarding the extension of the course-competition instrument to the recruitment of heads of constitutional bodies and other administrations. I can also agree on the subject, but this is a matter of substance and I am surprised that the Budget Commission, which should aim to identify more transparent and therefore more controllable recruitment procedures, is demanding that a rule be deleted which would produce this effect, leaving instead the effect of autonomy, and therefore the fact that the recruitment procedure is carried out exclusively within constitutional bodies or other administrations. This is another very strong invasion of the Commission's competence as a matter of substance, having been expressed in opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I am therefore submitting these questions and I say now that I believe that we need to reflect on the scope of the opinions of the Budget Commission. These opinions, in fact, have a very significant impact on the substance of the measures, often, however, in my opinion, too much to add to the fact that technical reports on the provisions are drawn up or not, and the manner in which they are drawn up, greatly restricting Parliament's legislative autonomy for profiles which do not strictly pertain to Article 81 of the Constitution. I therefore call for the rapporteur and the budget Commission to consider these aspects.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u66	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I would like to speak briefly on a point of order which requires clarification, if possible, by the Presidency and also by the Commission, namely on the correct application of paragraph 2-a of Article 126-a, which concerns the examination of the draft laws related to the maneuvering of public finance, that is, to know whether and how the content which requires, before the allocation, the determination of the provisions outside the scope of the bill presented by the Government to the Senate and linked to the financial maneuver has been fully observed. This in fact has some significant reflections on the consistency of this draft law, just regarding the effects that can be determined on the financial maneuver that has been approved with the law of stability.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u69	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, I believe that colleagues have already begun to express their concerns. The opinion of the Budget Committee is quite impressive, and it is such that it has also led the Presidency to take decisions that certain parts of the text that have come out of the Commission are inadmissible. There are therefore inadmissible texts, there are a number of comments and conditions, there are amendments which have fallen as a result of the opinion, amendments by the rapporteur which I believe have been tabled after the opinion of the Budget Commission and which I do not know whether they have already been included in the dossier or are separate. In short, I believe that there are all the conditions for suspending the examination of the draft law on public administration today in order to understand what is left of it and how, and in particular what remains of the amendment work carried out by the various groups, also in the light of the amendments which the rapporteur has tabled and which we should now be familiar with in detail. Given that the measure is broad and deals with all these issues, Madam President, I believe that it should not be dealt with lightly, starting only with a simple approval of the amendments, as we would do now, without considering the whole of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u72	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I, too, was somewhat surprised to note that Article 81 of the Constitution had been rejected by the Budget Committee in Article 12 (1) (p) because the same amendment voted in the Commission had had a non-obstacle opinion from the Budget Commission. Therefore, I would also ask the President of the 5th Commission to review this opinion, since it is the same subject, of the same subject as an amendment which in the Commission was only slightly reworded to a lesser extent than the original statement and which had obtained the non-obstacle opinion of the Budget Commission. I would therefore ask for a review of the matter. This is - I repeat - Article 12 (1) (p).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u75	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV)). Madam President, since we have been talking about digitisation for several days, including other measures, we have had very important sessions in this House in the presence of the Prime Minister, who should have also represented the issue of modernising and digitalising the state in Europe - I would remind you that there is one aspect to the issue of the implementation of decisions taken by Parliament. There is one aspect, from which one cannot ignore, which concerns the verification of what is done, of what qualified persons, or obliged to carry out in terms of active behavior within the public administration, must do and which, if not verified or sanctioned, would not produce concrete acts. (18.23) (MAURO Giovanni followed). Amendment 1,329 calls only for the establishment of a digital platform for coordination with respect to the verification of what the various actors need to do to further digitalisation. Therefore, from a moment of verification you can move to a moment of contestation against those who do not implement the required behavior. There is therefore an increase in expenditure that cannot be understood. Article 81 of the Constitution is referred to, but without a reason because it clearly and unequivocally provides for an organization entirely internal to the Ministry that can also involve other administrations that, however, in terms of spending, do not have any additional impact compared to the resources already in the field. I really cannot understand this logic, since neither a token of presence nor the acquisition of cards or anything else that can indirectly result in expenditure is foreseen. Among other things, it is an amendment that ends with the diction of ritual, or that the application of this paragraph does not entail new or higher burdens on the State. I cannot understand how we can now exercise legislative power in this way. Moreover, this amendment had received, in a cross-cutting way, not only the consent of almost all the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but even of the Government, because Minister Madia and Undersecretary Rughetti had expressed a favourable opinion. In the face of a rule that is considered to be of common sense and useful to the public administration, a rule that logically does not involve expenses, because, dogmatically, we must accept that it is not introduced into the provision because Article 81 of the Constitution is mentioned? I must say that I regret this and speak here so that this remains in the act, because these are the battles that you like to do when you participate in the implementation of legislation that you think is useful, regardless of the political positions you belong to. We have participated in the work in the Commission and we will participate in the work in this House, not from the point of view of those who are opposition senator but of those who must do useful work for the citizens who tomorrow will have to benefit from the rules introduced by this measure or be harassed by them. We believed that the rule introduced by amendment 1,329 really went in the direction of speeding up the digitisation of public administration, which is expected not only by our citizens but by our entire business system. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the President of the 5th Permanent Commission, Senator Azzollini.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u76	Mr President, perhaps it is time to address a little bit the question of the work done by the Budget Commission, because we are probably only used to working and not answering. I will therefore make a full speech, which addresses all the issues: if the Rules of Procedure are observed, how often the Budget Commission has additional functions, and how seriously we have to interpret its role, unless the Rules of Procedure of the Senate and Article 81 of the Constitution are changed, which is possible (and in that case, of course, we will adapt, I think to the great satisfaction of the members of the Budget Commission). I remind myself, as the modest provincial lawyer would say that I am and not a refined intellectual, that we are in the presence of a bill that the Government has declared related to the law of public finance. This declaration by the Government, which is normally made in the document of economy and finance, involves compliance with the procedure laid down for the law of stability. This is a statement which is not for Parliament, let alone for the Budget Committee, but for the Government. Since then, the Budget Commission has been operating under the regulatory rules that are laid down by the Stability Act. Of course, when the government makes this statement, it clearly wants to point out to the parliamentary activity that we are faced with rules that have a direct impact on public finance, otherwise it would not have declared it. If he has made this statement, he says to Parliament: We declare this because it is discounted in the balances of the financial law; therefore we place particular attention to it. Hence the declaration of inadmissibility, which follows the Commission's ruling of a budget contrary to Article 81, both with regard to the text and to the individual amendments. Therefore, we must exercise our power according to the rules that are laid down and imposed on us. That is why, in this case, we have such an opinion. Mr President, that is how it is discussed, everyone with his own free interpretation of what the Budgetary Commission is doing - you will allow me just for a moment - seems a little risky, because with regard to the work of that Commission, made up of people who are not refined, but rather crude in their examination (which, however, is very effective because determined by the figures), to say suddenly it has not been done, it is rather unpleasant, not for me but for colleagues in the Budgetary Commission, even more so when the procedure allows each senator, in the face of the opinions we give, to go to his Group and to report on the matter and, when this happens, of course, the same is being reviewed. In this way, I delete the first of the comments, which did not seem relevant to me; in any case, if ever there had been and had been asked why the Budgetary Commission had then revised its opinion, I would like to say that, as you all know, most of the time the Budgetary Commission revises its opinion by abetting the text with some corrective corrections of substance in favour of the presenter. In this case, the Budget Committee has been particularly active on the text - I wanted to say this in the end, but I have made a commitment to this in the Budget Committee and so I say it now - because a regulation has been violated and amendments to the text have been adopted without the Commission's prior approval, which, I repeat, is always absolutely mandatory, particularly in a related draft law. That yes, therefore, is a question that I simply ask to review, in the sense that it is not possible in the draft law or decree-law in general and, in particular, on the occasion of a related bill, to discuss without prior application. Nor should we be surprised at the effects because, as you know, there is a series of warnings in the Stability Act, in particular, that the Budgetary Commission is making to the Presidency that rules which do not meet the requirements of Article 81 for that particular issue should be expunged. All this - I repeat - forces me instead to point out that both in the text - which is why we have had to revise - and in the amendments there have been rewordings not previously brought to the attention of the Budget Commission and this, I assure you, not because we like to work on texts one, two, three and, sometimes four or even five - I would kindly ask you to look at them - that we are obliged to review them: it would be more useful to review them all before. In any case, we all feel obliged to cooperate in the good performance of the Senate's work and we sacrifice ourselves to do this work, which I repeat, however, in the case of the law of stability or of a provision related to it, is not in line with the Senate's Rules of Procedure. These are issues that, once and for all, I want to address, because otherwise we do not understand each other: Mr President, I assure you all, I say this with sweetness, that if we do not have some of these tasks, we would be happy, because it is not wonderful to say no to our colleagues, even if everyone knows that we systematically strive to make matters compatible with Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr President, I would like to highlight another point, so that we can get more and more involved. When it is said that the consequence of the opinion of the Budget Commission is a particular request with a particular majority or, as in this case, inadmissibility, this must not surprise anyone and for a very simple reason: the Budget Commission never enters into the substance, simply saying that a certain amendment should be covered. Therefore, we never express ourselves on the substance and when we declare that a given amendment is impervious, it is because there is no coverage. Where ever the Government - which in this case is the proposer - the presenter of the amendment or the Ministry of Economy decides to cover that amendment, it is quite clear that it is exceeded ex if the opinion of opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution expressed by the Budget Commission. It is therefore quite frankly inappropriate to bring back to our opinion outcomes which are absolutely regular and which do not go into the substance of the matter at all, by simply pointing out to the presenter of an amendment - whether it be the Government or a Member of Parliament - the need to cover a particular amendment. You know that many of the amendments are rejected under Article 81 of the Constitution, because there is a lack of government technical reports which, in many cases, are very complex and complicated. Therefore, we never enter into the merit of anyone. And I repeat, always lightly, that, frankly, it is a little amazing to get to grips with the work of colleagues, which, like us, we do not do with anyone. Turning to the substance of the questions raised, as regards Article 1 (1) (l), I would remind my colleague Lanzillotta that he spoke of an amendment tabled in the other branch of Parliament (I do not know what or in which branch). For us that was part of the text, with or without amendments, and we have spoken on that text - I repeat - not previously subject to the Commission's opinion. It's simple what he says at this point. I do not know the question of executives more or less, but the text states one simple thing: the writing of the norm, which spoke of place within a managerial office of an executive directly dependent on the authority, was absolutely interpretable in the sense of increasing a unit. The amendment states that this unit cannot be increased and that it must be done within the framework of the organic budget in fact. If you want to increase one unit, you say so and cover that measure. The in-depth debate on these issues in the Budget Commission has made it very clear that the simplest interpretation was that of the possibility of an increase in the overall budget in fact. But that is not possible, unless you find a cover. So, that seems like a perfectly linear thing to me. We are also told that it was intended that one of the managers of that office should be directly employed by the authority. You're gonna apologize for our rudeness, but we just wrote it down. I wouldn't be surprised, therefore, and I would simply collect something that is ictu oculi evident (I apologize for using an expression that seems Latin to me). The second question that has been raised to me frankly surprises me, because my esteem for colleagues is well known, but the observation that is being made is not within the meaning of Article 81 of the Constitution. Therefore, since the observation that we place with respect to Article 9, paragraph 1 (c), nos. 1 and 2 have no direct impact on Article 81 and have not been made within the meaning of that Article. Like all the observations that are natural in our opinions, as there may be interference on certain financial issues (in this case the budget of the constitutional bodies), we have put this problem to the attention in order to avoid that, when those competition procedures are carried out - this is the case - these aspects are not taken into account. If they do, they will have fulfilled our simple observation. This text is not, therefore, impeccable and I ask at least that you read our opinions: it is not a condition under Article 81 of the Constitution - I am sorry - but it is just a remark. With regard to paragraph 1 (p), my colleagues from the SVP, who are prodigal and thankful for the constant relationship they have with our Commission in which we often solve the problems we have... [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, this has been a long-standing issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u77	We are making her speak abundantly, but I invited her to find a way to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u78	Mr Azzollini (AP (NCD-UDC)). He's right and I'm going to the conclusion quickly. I cannot, however, fail to say that in this case we are talking about an amendment relating to a subject which Article 117 of the Constitution confers as an exclusive legislative power on the State and which changes it. It's just that. We give and confirm that kind of opinion. If, as on other occasions, they wanted to change the text, we could have reasoned and, in accordance with the constitutional dictation and because of the functions of the State and Article 81 of the Constitution, we would have acted accordingly. Finally, there is the question of Senator Mauro as to whether or not to restrict the work of amendment. Amendment work is limited when it conflicts with Article 81. It is simple: in this case it is limited. On the other hand, in the amendments to which Senator Mauro refers - I feel the obligation, but also the pleasure, to give an answer - this has happened: to an amending text on which the contrary opinion had been expressed under Article 81, it has only been added that: this rule does not entail charges. This - as you understand - is absolutely not satisfactory. Because that rule does not impose charges, the text must be changed; if that text involves charges and I write that it does not involve them, this does not give consistency with Article 81. I'll give you a trivial example. If I say that I have to hire a hundred people and then write that the present rule does not involve charges, of the two one: either the thing is inconsistent or, frankly, we would have made a decision that should be assessed not in the Senate, but somewhere else. Mr President, I just wanted to say that there is no point in opening discussions on the amendments we are debating here: we are doing so in the Commission all the time and without ever having the prerogative of each individual senator or senator or of each Commission, but in close coherence with the obligation imposed on us by the Constitution and the Rules of the Senate. That's how we try to do our job. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and LN-Aut]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u79	I call the President of the 1st Commission, Senator Finocchiaro.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u80	Madam President, I would like to clear the field from an impression which may have been supported by the words of President Azzollini, namely that, during the examination of this measure, it has acted in contempt of the rules. I would like to reassure my fellow Members that compliance with the rules has been maximum, especially since - as Mr Azzollini correctly pointed out - we are acting in the context of a legislative procedure involving a related measure. Consequently, we are obliged to comply with the stricter requirements laid down in the Rules of Procedure, obviously because of the safeguarding of budgetary constraints. In the same way - and I say this with all due force - it is true that the rule, which provides that it belongs to the discretion, obviously reasoned and motivated, of the President of the Commission - even when it is a reference office which has a related measure - decides which amendments to send to the Commission budget, and this rule does not suffer, in the course of the procedure relating precisely to a related measure, of any regulatory exception. Nevertheless, the 1st Commission has sent the Budgetary Committee for its opinion - several part-sessions have committed the Budgetary Commission to a very long and tiring work, for which I would like to thank its President and his members - all the amendments that had been tabled, with the exception of two. The first amendment had been tabled by the rapporteur, and then there were the sub-amendments due to their evident legal nature. It is up to the President of the Commission to decide whether that amendment could entail new burdens and, consequently, to consider that it should be sent to the Budget Commission. It was also decided not to send to the 5th Commission the rewording of those amendments on which there was, in the first text, a non-obstacle opinion. For these two issues, which have now been resolved with the opinion of the Budget Committee, and only for these two, there had been no sending to the Budget Commission - I repeat - to the power of the President of the Commission on the matter. For the rest - as all those who have observed our work know - the Commission has complied with every requirement arising from the successive opinions of the Budget Commission, obviously declaring impossible all the amendments on which the treason of the constraint referred to in Article 81 had been highlighted. In addition, all the suggestions made by the Budget Commission on all the amendments have been included in the text, with amendments by the rapporteur, in order to make them compatible with the constraint laid down in Article 81 of the Constitution. It seems to me, however, that President Azzollini has raised an issue on which my personal interest and my Commission are very keen. I would like to put here a question which - and President Azzollini will forgive me - is absolutely beyond the present question, which is also involved in it, but of a general nature. I do not want to discuss here the disadvantage of an ordinary system, and that therefore does not concern related measures, which sees the need for the Senate to send in practice all the amendments to the Budget Commission. Not all the Presidents of the Committees feel that they are exercising the scrutiny I mentioned earlier, and this is the responsibility of the Committee on Budgets for extraordinary and very often unnecessary work, because many of those amendments will be rejected or even withdrawn. On the other hand, in the Chamber, the budget committee receives the text drawn up by the Commission before the rapporteur's term of office for the scrutiny of the filter committee. This, of course, makes the work of the Budget Commission very easy and difficult. And on this perhaps a reflection in the Junta for the Rules of Procedure would be interesting to do. But I want to address the issue of the consistency of our texts with Article 81 of the Constitution. I would like to say very clearly something that we often do not say, because we do not feel it: compliance with Article 81 is not an obligation, a duty and a responsibility only of the Government, but it is, at the same time, an obligation, a duty and an institutional responsibility that belong to the Government, to Parliament and of course also to the President of the Republic, when examining the text before promulgation. Why do I say that? What is provided for by the Regulation to Article 76- bis, paragraph 3, i.e. a request from the Budget Commission towards the General Accounting Office of the State and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance for an investigative contribution for the purpose of an autonomous decision of the Budget Commission itself concerning compliance with Article 81, is in danger of becoming - I must also say with deprivation of "institutional powers" in terms of autonomy of the Budget Commission itself - the ipse dixit from which it is considered not to derogate. Now, let's consider what happens in a referencing procedure that doesn't deal with a related provision. The technical report of the MEF (the Accounting Report) becomes an obligation for the Budget Commission to decide in one way rather than another on one text. I believe, however, that this responsibility with regard to Article 81, which identically belongs to the Government and to Parliament, as it belongs to the President of the Republic, must be fully recovered, because otherwise - yes - the interference of a decision can occur, moreover, of a Ministry alone. In fact, all the opinions on which the MEF then gave a negative opinion with a technical report had the positive opinion of the Government present in the Commission. This may be reduced to interference with the substance of Parliament's political decision. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It must be subject to Rule 81 of the Rules of Procedure, but by virtue of its own responsibility, which is also covered by our Rules of Procedure. When it is not a question of a related measure, the House can disregard the contrary opinion under Rule 81. Parliament, in the fullness of its autonomy and powers, has the opportunity to assess itself and take responsibility for the observance of Article 81. The matter is very complex and delicate and President Azzollini has done well, in the way in which I have heard him - I would have said otherwise - claim the role of the Budget Commission. But I think we need to demand more, President Azzolini. It must be claimed that this institution together has the responsibility for the legislative process, the responsibility for the political decision and the responsibility for compliance with Article 81 of the Constitution. I believe that on this point it would be interesting to deepen, also in order to prevent difficulties, misunderstandings and - let me say - the paradox of a government position so firm and generous with respect to the innovation of this measure and a different attitude, which is impersonated by the face, painted as an archign, of the MEF. This is not the first time that this has happened in the course of Parliament's work. I think that addressing this issue with coldness, secularism and with a serious and responsible political-institutional debate is the best way we have to overcome today's difficulties as well. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bruno and Palermo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u81	We greet the Cultural Association of Pinerolese Workshop of Pinerolo, in the province of Turin, which is following our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u82	The assessments made by the Presidency under the current Rules of Procedure remain confirmed. De iure seasoning, you'll see.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u84	You should have told us earlier. In any case, you can briefly add your comments. We gave the Presidents of the Commission ample space. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u85	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). There is a debate in this House over the last few minutes on a subject that was not planned and I therefore believe that it is legitimate for each Group to express its opinion. I have heard of the reconstructions which I find very unusual about the work of the Budget Commission, commenting on what President Azzollini has said very correctly. And I am really surprised that these comments are being made whenever the Budget Commission refuses to express an opinion contrary to the content of a government text or to the amendments of the rapporteur or the majority. Our prejudices on many draft laws are full of suspicions, doubts and certainties about the violation of Article 81 of the Constitution, which we first express in the Budget Committee where - as is well known - we vote by majority. As President Finocchiaro has rightly pointed out, the Budget Committee makes use - and cannot do otherwise - of the reports of both the Ministry of Finance and the General Accounting of the State, which have the technical elements to be able to verify whether or not a rule needs financial coverage. And, therefore, all these arguments are truly unique. We have repeatedly expressed our views against it and systematically the General Accounting Office of the State has also indicated the appropriateness of the cover. And it has also happened, at other times, that the Budget Commission has given an opinion which differs from that expressed by the General Accounting Office of the State. From this point of view, I would like to appreciate the strictness of the Commission and also the openness to many of its arguments, although we often disagree politically. President Finocchiaro, in the end, the amendments voted without the Commission's opinion, before arriving in the Chamber, also pass by the Commission. Therefore, there is no double task of the Commission to examine them first because, if they have already been examined, the opinion remains what it is, except for the changes that very often lurk through texts 2 or 3, as President Azzollini said. Therefore, it is absolutely the duty of the Budget Commission to intervene on any change, even on a comma, that is made in the redrafting of an amendment, even if it has received the clearance and, even more so, if it has not received it. By the way, there is the extreme ratio. Parliament is sovereign, however, and you teach me that, at the request of fifteen senators, we can also vote on amendments which have received the contrary opinion of the Budget Commission. The Budget Committee, therefore, never has the possibility, let alone the intention, of conditioning the work of Parliament, except by directing them to their correct solution, that of respecting Article 81 of the Constitution, which is a Constitution for all, and not only for the Government but also for Parliament and for the President of the Republic. Therefore, although often dissenting in the Budget Committee, we can ultimately only censor the practice whereby, when the Budget Commission gives a negative opinion on certain texts, it becomes the monster of Parliament while, when it rejects the opposition's proposals, it becomes the guarantor of Article 81 of the Constitution. That was the opinion of the Budget Commission. Even if we do not agree, we still believe that it must be respected. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u88	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, it seems to me that the development of this debate has taken on a larger dimension than the question raised at the time when the debate started. Senator Lanzillotta posed a problem on a formulation of a passage of the provision. President Azzollini rightly made a general reference to the role of the 5th Commission and the way in which it is to apply Article 81 of the Constitution, and then followed by the comments of President Finocchiaro on the work of the 1st Commission. I have taken the floor because a point which I consider to be central to our debate has remained outside the scope of the debate, namely the position which it should take, and which we would like to assume, the Parliamentary Budget Office, which we set up more than a year ago. The unspoken issue is Parliament's autonomy in assessing the financial effects of the rules that we need to discuss. This is a very important issue, which concerns our daily activities, in macro terms but also in terms of individual amendments. With all the friendship that I bring to President Azzollini, and of which he is aware, I say that it is natural that the senators have much respect for the indications of the Budget Commission with regard to the cover provided for in Article 81, and it is also natural that they defend their proposals in substance. It is from the natural dialectic between the censure of the 5th Commission and the need, instead, to see discussed on the substance the parliamentary proposals that the problem arises. And in order to try to resolve it downstream and to prevent this debate from blocking our work and mobilizing the House on an issue on which we really should not stop so much in the ordinary, we thought it would be useful to have the support of the Parliamentary Budget Office. On this point I think we need to think about it and we Senators of the Democratic Party will reflect on it. Now I do not know whether this matter should be dealt with by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure or other initiatives should be taken, but I would like to put the question of the work of the Parliamentary Budget Office in this House publicly. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u89	We take note of your request, bearing in mind that the rules already lay down the areas of competence of the new body set up, which do not appear to exist in this case. In any case, the subject may be further examined.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u90	Mr President, with amendment 1.303, in the first paragraph of Article 1, after the word 'inside', I would add the words 'not beyond'. The inclusion of this adverb aims to underline the peremptory nature of the deadlines within which the Government must issue legislative decrees aimed at implementing a simplified provision of services to citizens, thanks to the full use of the telematic mode. There are too many decrees, even of a ministerial nature - as Minister Madia mentioned today - that should have introduced innovation and simplification in the relations between citizens and public administration and that, on the other hand, have been the subject of many extensions, and have often remained still a dead letter.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u91	Mr President, I would just like to make a very quick point about all the amendments to Article 1. Perhaps there has been a problem in the press about the signatories - and then we will also say so during the examination of the others - in the sense that the signatures of the Munerato and Bellot colleagues are also meant to be added. I would like this to remain in the proceedings, because in some cases the signatories have been correctly reported, while in others there is only an indication of the first. On the substance of the matter, however, I believe that I am in favour of the explanation of the amendments to Article 1, and then we shall see below. The only additional point I would like to make is that I share the comments made by the President of the Budget Commission. It is true that in-depth work has certainly been done in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, including on the expenditure commitments that could arise from amending proposals, and that a very careful examination has been made of every proposal made by colleagues. We will certainly find other opportunities, however, in the examination of this measure and of the amending proposals submitted to it, to focus very carefully on the probable commitments of expenditure which would result from the State's revenue.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u92	Mr President, amendment 1,321 - similar to some of the amendments tabled to other articles, which I will not explain - concerns the question of the better clarification of the delegation procedure and the relationship between Parliament and the Government. In essence, we see that this measure has very important aspects, many of which are dealt with by delegation to the Government. I would therefore like to ask with this amendment - and also with the others I will not explain - that in this case, given the importance and importance of the subject, the same procedure is being followed by the tax delegation, which consists in strengthening Parliament's opinion, which never becomes binding, once given the delegation to the Government, but allows for a more fruitful and transparent intercourse. Basically, in the event that the opinion expressed and provided for by the Commissions is not accepted by the Government, the Government undertakes to give a statement of reasons why it has decided not to follow up the opinion, sending the measure back to the Commission and accepting, therefore, its further ruling. Then, of course, having been delegated, it remains sovereign and can decide to proceed independently of the opinion received. It seems to me that this, also on the basis of the report that has been in the whole process that has accompanied the extension of the measure and its transition to the Commission, can be a factor of enrichment, bringing the dialectic Government-Parliament back to the institutional seat, which is its own. [[Applause from Senator Fornaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u95	BENCINI (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to add the signatures of myself and Senator Mussini to Senator Guerra's amendment 1,321. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator War, do you agree? Mr Warra (PD). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u96	We take note of that. The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u97	Mr President, I would like to call for the withdrawal of all the amendments tabled in Article 1, otherwise the opinion is against, with the exception of those which I have tabled, on which the opinion is in favour, and of amendment 1,321 which I request provision.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u98	The Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u99	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,300.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u100	We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u101	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,300, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,301, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1302, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,303 tabled by Senator Fucksia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,304, tabled by Senators Piccoli and Mazzoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,305.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u104	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ombudsman is a fundamental figure, because he offers a service to the citizen and at the same time to the public administration, in particular in the prevention of costly litigation, impacting both political and judicial reality. The institute is governed in a disorganic way by various regulations (Law No. 241 of 1990 on the right of access to documents, Law No. 127 of 1997, Article 136 of Legislative Decree No. 267 of 2000 and others) since, at present, there is no framework law defining guidelines for codifying modalities and instruments of intervention aimed at ensuring homogeneity and effectiveness of the action of civic defence throughout the national territory. The proposed amendment, to which we will vote in favour, is moving in this direction, also in view of the recent research promoted at government level, from which it emerges that the main difficulties of the citizen in relations with the public administration derive not so much from the bad administration, but from the diversification and complexity of the rules and the deadlines to be submitted. In this scenario, the support of the Ombudsman to the citizen, offered free of charge, is an essential tool for resolving possible conflicts and taking the path of simplification.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u105	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,305, tabled by Senator Fucksia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,700.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u108	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, Amendment 1,700 is not included in the amendment. It was added later. Can you hold on a moment, please?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u109	It is an amendment which incorporates the comments of the 5th Commission, which has defined it as necessary: it is the result of compliance with binding opinions. The text is distributed to the Groups. In the meantime, we shall proceed with the votes of the other amendments, pending completion of the distribution. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,306.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u112	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, we should have time to read Amendment 1,700. If we read it, we cannot vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u113	I put down the vote on the amendment so that the senators can read it. ENDRIZZI (M5S). But if I have to vote, I can't read. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Now the text of amendment 1,700 is distributed to the Groups and, after the vote on some other amendment, we will recover it. Senator, you will certainly be able to read it. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1306 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1307, tabled by Senator Bruni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,308, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The texts of the amendments tabled by the rapporteur have been distributed. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1,700 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1,701 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,309 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendment 1,310, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,311.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u116	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I will withdraw Amendments Nos 1,311 and 1,327. On the two subjects they dealt with, which I consider to be extremely important, I will present agendas, which I hope the Government will accept.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u117	I call on you to submit the agenda texts as soon as possible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.312, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.313 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,314, tabled by Senator Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,315, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,316, tabled by Senator Volpi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,317, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators, until the words 'in the case of the Minutes'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1.317 and amendments 1.318 to 1,320 are therefore excluded. Rapporteur, the amendment 1.321 had been put aside: do you think that it should be put aside or have any ideas in the meantime? Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. Yes, Mr President, you are being set aside. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,322, tabled by Senators Campanella and Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,323, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators, essentially identical to amendments 1,324, tabled by Senator Volpi and other senators, 1.0.6, tabled by Senator Biinella and other senators, and 1.0.300, tabled by Senator Volpi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,325, tabled by Senators Gibiino and Bruno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,326, tabled by Senators Perrone and Bruno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.327 and 1.328 have been withdrawn. Amendments 1,329 and 1,330 are inadmissible. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to make their views known on the agendas of G1.100 and G1.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u118	I am in favour of the adoption of agendas G1.100 and G1.101, provided that both are reworded by including the words "to assess the appropriateness of "after the words "the Government" are committed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u119	Do the presenters accept the proposed reformulation? VACCARI (PD). I welcome you, Mr President. BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). I too welcome the proposal for a reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u122	Bisinella (Misto-FAL). Mr President, also on behalf of Senators Bellot and Munerato, I would ask Senator Bonfrisco to be able to sign the agenda G1,101 (text 2). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bonfrisco, do you accept your order of business? BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u123	The Government is willing to accept the agendas thus reworded.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u124	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G1,100 (text 2) and G1,101 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. At this point, having the Government, in the person of Minister Madia, accepted the agenda, we should vote on Article 1, but we cannot do so, since Amendment 1,321 has been put aside, unless you, rapporteur, are able to give us guidance on the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u127	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would just like to point out that there are also my two agendas, G1,311 and G1,327, which have just been put forward with the wording of the proposal to consider whether this is appropriate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u128	These are Amendments Nos 1,311 and 1,327, which you have turned into agendas, but the problem is that the agenda texts are not physically received by the Presidency. However, the content is similar to that of the amendments, so I can already ask the rapporteur to comment on them.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u129	I invite Senator Di Biagio to make the agendas, so that we can evaluate them.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u130	Agendas are drawn up in analogy with the texts of the withdrawn amendments, i.e. 1,311 and 1,327. So the agendas are similar. , rapporteur. I accept the agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call on the government representative to comment on the agenda. MADIA, Minister for Simplification and Public Administration. I give a favourable opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G1,311 and G1,327 will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u133	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I only take the floor to ask for the order of business to be signed by Senator Bonfrisco G1.101 (text 2): I asked for the floor just now.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u134	We take note of that. Senator Bonfrisco's agenda was very successful. By continuing the provision of an amendment which does not allow us to vote on Article 1, the vote of which is also rejected for obvious reasons, we shall proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u135	Mr President, I am speaking very quickly and overall to explain the Group's amendments to my first signature, most of which relate to a very sensitive issue concerning the Conference of Services, as Article 2 once again puts it back to its reordering. We have tabled two types of amendments. On the one hand, those who tend in some way to ensure that there is the possibility of the participation of interested parties in the proceedings within the Conference of Services (eliminating the incision on the basis of which one can participate only in cases of adoption of measures of general interest, which very much limits the possibility of participation); on the other hand, amendments which aim to ensure that all associations carrying widespread or sensitive interests, as well as the citizens' committees constituting themselves in defense of such territorial public interests, can participate in the proceedings within the Conference of Services. This is, among other things, an issue that is also under discussion in the delegation for the revision of the procurement code system. This should be taken for granted even more so at the Conference of Services. The other amendments tend to ensure that there is a safeguard mechanism, not a conspicuity mechanism, of the will of the administrations representing the protection system. I am therefore referring to the administrations responsible for protecting health, the environment and the landscape, and therefore to sensitive and constitutionally protected interests. From this point of view we propose a series of amendments amending the text produced by the Commission itself, in particular by providing for the protection mechanism to be taken into account at the Conference of Services. As was also apparent in the text approved by the Commission, this is obviously not there. Not only that: we even go in the opposite direction. Moreover, there is a mechanism - and here again we propose the abolition of it - that all government administrations should present themselves at the Conference of Services with a single representative. Think about what will happen when you have to decide on infrastructure, for example: will there be a representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport or of the Ministry of the Environment? I think, therefore, that even on this front there is an absurd force that will go against the general interests of this country. The whole mechanism of the great works, in addition to the objective law, was further entrenched because those opinions were not properly taken into account. Today, instead of improving the situation (environmental impact assessments, the opinions of the administrations prepared for protection) there is an operation that goes even further in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u136	Mr President, we are in principle in agreement with the idea that public administration should be simplified and made more efficient. Therefore, we do not want to escape from this. It seems to us, however, that the measures adopted by this Government go in a direction which sees simplification only and always cutting, eliminating, subtracting and not efficiency. With amendment 2.348 we propose to add to paragraph 1 (m), some reference to the so-called mechanism that sees the priorities, because, although in letter m) we talk about terms for environmental protection, everything is reduced to terms for the technical assessment and the necessary composition of public interests and it ends, in a very brutal way, so as to reach in any case the conclusion of the procedure within the time limits provided for, as if, precisely, the only objective was not to enhance the principles, priorities and requirements of the protection of the environment, health and public safety manifested by the bodies in charge, but above all always and always to do soon, to do as soon as possible, possibly remaining silent and not expressing any opinion. Mr President, since you have listened to me with pleasure, I would like to thank you for your attention, which gives great value to my words. President, you are of support. I am very happy when I speak before you because your attention strengthens me.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u137	You're right, Senator, I apologize but they were asking me about the progress of the work on behalf of the Groups. I'm sorry. Please complete your speech, if you want to stress your thoughts again, so I can take note of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u138	I'm done. I emphasized the need that in the efficiency of the performance of the functions the agencies do not lose attention for those that are the values of protection, while it seems to me that the interest of the government goes simply towards the cuts and the simplification end in itself. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u139	Mr President, in Article 2 we propose a number of amendments which I think are very sensible. Those who have had the opportunity to do even half a day in local administrations know that one of the major drawbacks we have - and simplification should go in this direction - is the procedure for the Conference of Services. With the amendments that we are proposing, we are trying to make it more clear, so that we have certain times with regard to the Conferences of the services because all too often - those who have had experience of local administration know it well - the superintendence, rather than other bodies participating in the Conference of the services, disregard the timing that even a public administration gives itself, by blowing the programming. Among other things, there is a great deal of talk, especially at this time when Europe's demands are rightly being met, when we talk about streamlining and thinning procurement procedures, with the new Procurement Code, with which we want to give clear and streamlined rules on procurement and, consequently, on everything that concerns public administration. With the amendments we have tabled, we are going to set out obligations for those who are to participate in the contracts themselves, including, for example, the obligation to present themselves; otherwise, there is a silent assent. We know very well, in fact, always on the basis of the administrative experience we have, that the position and decision of some bodies involved, perhaps apparently marginal, are an integral part of the whole procedural system concerning a certain work for which, not presenting itself, those bodies go to block the whole administrative machinery. I would like to point out that a great deal had been done in the legislative process with regard to the whole simplification system, which also affected this problem: then Minister Calderoli did a great deal about these problems. It is clear that at this moment we believe that trying to help, indicating certain times, establishing that the Conference of Services must, in any case, reach a certain decision, within time, with codified and clear methods and procedures - in these amendments we call them very specific - is an act of absolute common sense. Our proposals therefore go towards what should be an ever-modern administration and which adapts, among other things, with European indications precisely as regards this kind of procedure. [[Applause from Senator Castaldi's LN-Aute Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u140	Mr President, Amendment 2.13 aims to encourage public administrations to function in a timely manner, i.e. to provide for disciplinary measures to be taken against the managers responsible for the authorities responsible for making acts of consent, when they do not do so within the prescribed time limits. In this way, administrations are encouraged to express themselves within the required time frame, thus enabling the Conference of Services to function effectively as a simplified process module. All too often, the decisions which should be taken by the Conference are effectively paralysed to the detriment of individuals, who are waiting in uncertainty for the answers necessary to carry out their activities.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u141	The remaining amendments and the agenda are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u142	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u143	I am opposed to all the amendments, with the exception of amendment 2.9, which adopted the following rewording: "In paragraph 1, after point (c), insert the following: "c- bis) principle of certainty of the timing of the conference, i.e. that any type of service conference should have a certain duration, even with the imposition on all participants of a burden of clarity and unambiguousness of the conclusions expressed." I would also ask for the provision of amendment 2.354. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask President Azzollini to comment on this reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u144	Mr President, since, as I said before, this could not be done in such places, in this case I can, however, express my opinion in accordance with Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure because obviously the proposed rewording does not impose any burden. Therefore, the opinion, given in accordance with Article 100, is void.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u145	That is why we can vote on this rewording. Senator Biinella, do you accept the rewording proposed by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u146	I ask the rapporteur if he can repeat it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u147	== In paragraph 1, after letter c), insert the following: "c- bis) principle of certainty of the timing of the conference, i.e. that any kind of conference of services must have a certain duration, even with the imposition on all participants of a burden of clarity and unmistakableness of the conclusions expressed." Bisinella (Misto-FAL). Does the final part of the amendment lapse or remains? Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. Rewording is a substitute for the amendment. Bisinella (Misto-FAL). However, it is quite in line with the merit I was referring to, so I accept it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u150	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to make a remark which concerns in general the amendments proposed by Senator Guerra, who has made a proposal which is at least a safeguard of Parliament's work and therefore, in our opinion, has an important meaning, in particular with regard to this proposal for delegation which is very broad and which we have also opposed in the negative sense to the lack of specific guiding criteria. First of all, if the presenter allows us to do so, we would like to sign Senator Guerra's amendments, but I would also make a request on how to proceed. In fact, I have allowed myself to make a check and it seems to me that the text of amendment 2,354 is repeated in virtually all the articles we are dealing with. As the rapporteur's request for provision has stopped the vote on Article 1 and I also imagine Article 2 (if the reservation remains), before continuing I therefore believe that there is a need to dissolve the reservation on Senator Guerra's proposal. Otherwise, let us proceed first of all with the lack of a premise that would allow the whole of Parliament to calm down in its monitoring and verification function, and then because we would vote on articles, without ever voting on the final article, for a reservation that is present. I should therefore like to ask the rapporteur whether he should not stop for a moment, given that there is little time left for the closure of the work. [[Applause from Senator Calderoli]] This would allow the rapporteur and the government to verify the Guerra amendment which, in my opinion, is not only blocking, but has an important meaning in relation to the functions of Parliament. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u151	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u152	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u154	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). I also ask you to sign Senator Guerra's amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u155	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u157	Mr Fornaro (PD). If Mrs Bisinella agrees, I would like to add my signature to Amendment 2.9, as reworded.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u158	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u160	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Mr President, with your permission, Mr Bocchino, Mr Bignami and Mr Casaletto would like to sign Senator Guerra's amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u161	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u163	BENCINI (Mixed). Mr President, I too would like to sign this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u164	At this point we have obtained opinions on the amendments to Article 2. I would point out to the rapporteur that Senator Guerra's amendments raise a general question concerning, as has been understood, an enhanced parliamentary verification procedure for the exercise of the delegation. Therefore, given that the sitting will end at 8 p.m., when work on the draft law is resumed, it would be useful to resolve this dilemma which risks suspending the vote on all articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u165	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u167	Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. Mr President, this amendment has been tabled in this House and not in the Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Now there will be a way of thinking. Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. We will deal with the merit, but let me say that it is obvious that Senator Volpi's reasoning is instrumental. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Now Senator Volpi can't reply. Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. Mr President, may I express my opinion? The use of the opposition's reasoning is obvious, as we could very well move forward and put aside the amendment. It was clear that we would not have gone beyond 8 p.m., i.e. the time for the closure of today's sitting, so we would not have finished voting on the amendments to Article 2. Before we resume our work on Tuesday, there will be clarification.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u168	The Presidency hopes that this will be clarified, given that it is, I believe, laid down in all the articles, and therefore hopes that the rapporteur will be able to form an opinion from here until we return to the subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u169	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u171	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, many groups in this House are calling for reflection by signing the amendment. I believe that the rapporteur should note that 80% of this House signed this amending proposal. It is not the rapporteur who flees or becomes instrumental in the request for suspension: it is an invitation, I think, intelligent, to the sensitivity of the rapporteur, who should represent Parliament and not the Government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u172	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u174	Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. Mr President, I would simply like to say that I believe I have made an objective reflection on a problem which, as I have pointed out, will be addressed. If Senator Volpi believes that he translates all the discussions into these terms, I take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u175	Senator Pagliari, tomorrow morning - as my fellow Members will hear when we read the agenda - at 9.30 a.m. we will resume the work of the measure on public administration. So it would perhaps be desirable for us not to put aside the vote on Rule 2 tomorrow as well. My wish, of course - and I cannot do more - is that we can resolve the issue of the provision tomorrow morning and not Tuesday, otherwise this will slow down the process of the long-awaited reform, on which many amendments have already been tabled. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u176	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u178	DI GIORGI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to ask for a moment of patience for those who are interested. Tonight I would like to speak very quickly about a subject that once again strikes us and affects everyone, particularly women; but I believe that it must affect our society as a whole. Something horrible has happened lately in Florence: the body of a girl, a former model, was found, of course massacred by her partner. This murder once again leaves us appalled at the particular cruelty and violence that women in general are forced to endure during their lives. This girl had denounced and had done everything that is usually done and that in fact doesn't do anything, because there is not enough protection. Why do I tell this fact here, which you have already read in the newspapers? Simply because I believe it is necessary for us to really try a little harder to put an end to this by means of legislation that is appropriate. We have done something during this parliamentary term: we have converted Decree-Law No 93 of 14 August 2013 into law, which contains urgent provisions on security and the fight against gender-based violence, as well as on civil protection and the police station of the provinces. An omnibus decree, because of course we still cannot do things ad hoc. Instead, I think it is necessary to start really moving on this theme of feminicide, with a more significant signal, linked to something more complete: culture of respect for women, prevention and of course education to gender difference. I think we can do it: we could be the legislature that does it. Compared to this, the various acts that happen every day in all parts of Italy must push us to be fast. Mr President, I think it is necessary for the Senate to move, since there is a great deal of sensitivity on the part of all Members. Therefore, specific rules for the protection of women must become a reality. I said that education must be aimed at, with actions aimed at spreading among men, among young people, among young people the idea of respect for women, which has an incisive influence on school curricula. As 7a We have talked about this on several occasions: we have talked about it with the Minister and we want it to be a strong topic, a fundamental theme, something that makes the civilization of our country a little more advanced than what is in other parts of Europe, even within the good school provision. See that the amount of murders and feminicides in our country is truly unbearable for everyone now and is unbearable for a civilized country. So I'm just doing this communication to say that it takes a lot more. These women are killed after being threatened: it is almost always a story of threats and violence. So we must ensure that in this measure, which I hope can be done as soon as possible, there is also real investment in the preparation of protected places. We need this, we need the regions and all the competent bodies to work. The municipalities are doing it the way they can. It is necessary to make available places where these women with their children can have a real safeguard. So, we need investments, social workers, activities against the police, because it is right that the reception is of a certain kind. Of course the speech includes ASLs and all those who have competence. We know how to do this: we always say this in the institutional classrooms and in the places of this MEP, but sometimes we are not concrete. I hope that from us, from the people present, from those who are engaged in this parliamentary term something real can come for our children, our daughters and for all those who still have faith in us. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Floris, Liuzzi and Orellana senators.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u179	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u181	MORRA (M5S). I must point out to the House a problem which seems to have been finally resolved by the Commission with regard to the DEF, which is beginning to be dealt with, precisely as regards the disability fund. We all know that this fund, following pressure from civil society associations and bodies, has finally been refinanced after the hypothesis was feared by Congressman Gutgeld, who is the inspiration of Renzi's economic policies, to rationalise expenditure in the area of disability spending that even so-called centre-right governments had not had the courage to carry forward. I would like to point out that, according to ISTAT forecasts, we rather than reducing expenditure on this fund should increase it, because more and more families need help to care for people who have chronic problems. A society that is truly solidarity does not cut services. I would also like to reiterate that, if this is a national emergency, it is even more so for those who live in southern Italy, because our regions unfortunately do not offer centres of excellence that can guarantee services to the person as there are in Regions of the Centre-North. All this means costs that cannot simply be incurred with 250 euros of accompanying allowance and with 500 euros of additional allowance to the person. If we want to be a serious civilization, we must first think of the weakest, even if they are different from the normodots. Therefore, I ask the Government of the Republic to take on these needs too, because they are the weakest people who deserve most of all to be listened to by a short-sighted policy and who could start, for example, to show generosity by making cuts in public spending starting from politics itself. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u182	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u184	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, the Apulian aqueduct, as denounced on time by the Apulian Committee "Acqua bene comune" (common good water), signs a protocol of understanding with Gori SpA, the Acea Group, to start a common path of development of partnership relations. All this happens with the approaching expiry of the concession of the integrated water service and the consequent possibility of sale to the private - you have heard well - of the actions of the Apulian aqueduct. But where are the tables of the Parliamentary Intergroup on the common good water? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What happened to Nichi Vendola's and Michele Emiliano's water policy, which good of all citizens? And the many fascinating narratives of the poets of the left against the logic of profit on goods essential to the life of every human person what happened to them? By now Renzi's disease has invaded every corner of the old politics of these young old people, who with their lies and hypocrisy are demolishing what remains of our country, that is, at least the hope of a fairer and freer future. In order to allow every citizen to live a life worthy of being lived, goods such as water must be of free access for all and cannot be the subject of squalid speculation by the usual well-known business groups friends of our runners from scrambled. In this perspective it would be useful to understand how Apulian Aqueduct chose Gori SpA. That same Apulian Aqueduct that with public money has made in these years hiring without competition and spent our money without any control. This, Mr President, is yet another shame on the water that the 5 Star Movement intends to denounce. The 5 Star Movement is the only political force that has respected the popular will, expressed in a referendum in 2011, and presented bill No 876, at my first signature, lying in the dusty drawers of the Environment Commission. The 5 Star Movement is the only force that has had the courage to ask truly and without fiction the republicization of the Apulian Aqueduct that all Apulians expect. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u185	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u186	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u187	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, the American multinational McDonald's in a commercial attacks our culture on its foundations. One of the many bases of our culture is food and wine. And pizza is the world symbol of Italy, which makes itself felt everywhere and at all times. Pizza is tradition and excellence. We cannot allow the multinational McDonald's to trample on us brazenly. Even more humiliating is that we also stretch red carpets to let her participate in the Expo. This multinational will even have its own stand at the Expo in Milan. And I remember, first to myself, that the Expo would be born to offer everyone the opportunity to know and taste the best products in the world and discover the excellences of the food and food tradition of every country. So what's McDonald's doing at the Expo? Meanwhile, as a 5 Star Movement we asked Expo to exclude McDonald's from official sponsors. As our Vice President Luigi Di Maio recalled, Expo was not only a bribe shop, but, at this point, it becomes an event to damage our food and wine traditions. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes.]] We are pleased that the True Neapolitan Pizza Association, through the mouth of its vice president Massimo Di Porzio, let us know that their legal office is considering the actions to be taken to put an end to the shameful attack on a symbol of the Mediterranean diet. Although the Neapolitan pizza enjoys irrefutable quality and pleasure, it is ignoble to compare two different products just to advise against pizzeria. It is clear that the American giant tries to discredit his biggest competitor. This is not the first time McDonald's has attacked our traditions. And the Association has also announced that any compensation will be used to finance, rightly, food education courses for children. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u188	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-431.ana.u189	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 16 April, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8 p.m.
