ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-18.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 5 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-18.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-18.ana.u3	I warn you that the Conference of Leaders is underway. I therefore suspend the sitting until the end of its proceedings. (The sitting was suspended at 5.04 p.m. and resumed at 5.31 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-18.ana.u4	The next item is the President's statement on the timetable for proceedings.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-18.ana.u5	The Conference of Leaders unanimously approved the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 26 July. The Bonino motion and others on the establishment of an extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights will be discussed at the sitting on Tuesday 10 July. The calendar includes the holding of the inspection union on Wednesday 11, Tuesday 17 and Thursday 26 July and the holding of the question time on Thursday 12 and Thursday 26, at 15, with direct television broadcast. Parliament is convened at 2.30 p.m. on Thursday 19 July for the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court and eight members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. In the week from 17 to 19 July, where concluded by the Commission, the Decree-Law on e-invoicing of fuel supplies will be discussed. In agreement with the Chamber of Deputies, on Wednesday 18 July, at 9.30 a.m., the call for the secret ballot will be made by means of ballots for the election of two members of the Board of Directors of RAI. Also on Wednesday 18 July - which is my birthday - [[Applause]] At 12 noon, secret ballots will take place, with the electronic system on blocked lists, for the election of the members of the Executive Board of Administrative Justice, the Court of Auditors and the tax justice. In the week from 24 to 26 July will be examined the decree-law introducing interventions for the court of Bari, where approved by the Chamber of Deputies. With regard to the unique sessions of Wednesday 18 and Wednesday 25 July, the work of the Assembly will tend to be suspended between 1 p.m. and 4.30 p.m. to allow the work of the Commissions. The calendar can be supplemented with an information from the Government on the results of the European Council of 28 and 29 June, which - as you will remember - was requested yesterday by various Groups (starting from the Brothers of Italy Group, which then joined the others) on which we await the Government's response. The Conference of Leaders also agreed that, by 6 p.m. on Monday 9 July (this is important, especially for the Leaders), groups which have not already done so would send the nominations of their representatives to the RAI Supervisory Committee, the Copasir, as well as to the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. These bodies will be convened on Wednesday 11 July, at the following times: RAI Monitoring Committee, 11 a.m.; Copasir, 12 noon; Parliamentary elections and immunity were reached at 1 p.m. By Monday, July 23, the nominations of the Groups must be received in the parliamentary delegations at the international assemblies; by Monday, July 30, the nominations concerning the Parliamentary Commission for regional matters and the other bicameral Commissions provided for by the current laws, which are renewed at the beginning of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-18.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-18.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-18.ana.u8	STEFANO (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask the Government's response to inspection union 3-00001. It would be - as it were - proof that the Commission's machine, after the announcements, is also working on this front. This is a question concerning ENAV and the choices of the last industrial plan, which has long been agitating its employees, but also passengers. If, on the one hand, the strike of all 24-hour flight controllers on July 5 has been prevented, there is still to be serious concern about the postponement to July 20 of the same strike: we risk giving life to a black Friday contrary to air traffic, considering the devastating effects for the vacation industry of a strike at the beginning of a mid-July weekend. The trade union organizations of ENAV report that, since this company made its entry into the Stock Exchange, the propensity to cut and merge services appears increasingly evident, in view of the protection of accounts and profits by the company, to the detriment, however, of what is the real mission of ENAV, that is to provide security in the skies. To sad confirmation of this inclination, last July 1 has recorded a horrible day for the Italian air traffic, due to a failure to the systems of control of the center radar of Rome: just the center designated by the industrial plan of ENAV as unique - and I emphasize only - radar for the Center and the South Italy. It is a choice that must be commented on and evaluated with the news that, thanks to the redundancy radar put in place by the control center of Brindisi, that you want to close experimentally to a very short lap, you have managed to accompany the flights in progress and to limit the delays and inconveniences. Finally, I would like to ask you, Mr President, to speak with regard to the Ministries of Economy and Infrastructure and Transport so that they can clarify what they mean about the management choices that ENAV is making, the scale of which is important for the safety of our skies and our citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Laniece]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-18.ana.u9	Senator, I congratulate you on being able to use only, but in full, the time at your disposal: a living chronometer.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-18.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-18.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-18.ana.u12	Mr ASTORRE (PD). Mr President, the intervention is indispensable to me today as a result of the incredible statements by the city council member to the environment of the City of Rome, Pinuccia Montanari, for which in the City of Rome it is not available and there is no willingness to build a service dump. It is good for the Councillor Montanari and for the mayor Rays to turn the city into an open-air dump, which is Rome today - it is before everyone's eyes - to the delight of mice and wild boars, but it must not be closed - according to them - the waste cycle. It is clear that the entire metropolitan area of Rome and the Lazio Region are ready and must do their part to help solve the problems; another thing is to think that the metropolitan area of Rome, the Municipalities of the Province of Rome and the Municipalities of Lazio are transformed into landfills for the waste of Rome. The issue of waste cannot be dealt with by incompetent and barrel discharge; it is always said that it is the fault of the predecessors or of the Lazio Region, which does not authorize two composting plants, but, for those who know, compost and composting plant are above all at the service of the humid cycle. Instead, it is a question of rejecting the idea that the Municipality of Rome, one of the largest in Europe, which could include within it the territory of many European capitals, cannot solve the problem of the waste cycle, bringing waste abroad or in other regions and always calling to solidarity other situations, with a very high cost for the service of waste and with a city unfortunately reduced to landfill in open air. So the mayor Rays and the Councillor Montanari stop doing the cat and the fox and give a hand to solve the problems of Rome. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-18.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-18.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-18.ana.u15	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, we would also like today to urge the Secretary of the League and Vice Prime Minister Matteo Salvini to come to this House to clarify the management of electoral refunds, which even today the national press attaches to him directly. Mr President, we would not like to start a daily relay, intervening at every sitting to remember all this. We believe that the statements by the Secretary of the League and Vice Prime Minister Salvini should provide a sufficient incentive for the Presidency to invite the Minister to clarify the facts in this House. What did he say? He said that the resources and time spent by the judiciary on these investigations were thrown away and that the reimbursement money had already been spent. Not only that: today, in commenting on the judgment of the Supreme Court, he declared that it was a political decision. Well, I believe that in the face of all this the Minister must come to Parliament to clarify. They are statements made by a person who has sworn on the Constitution to become Minister and then, President, there is really something wrong, because the separation of tasks and competences between the judiciary and the Government is a principle enshrined in our Constitution. Mr President, it seems to me that we are taking a worrying step which sees Parliament as being used as a bass drum and not as a substance: everything is done outside Parliament and, as far as is necessary, we come here, even if this very necessary thing is really little, given the working hours of the last few weeks. Well, for us, the issue of Lega-Salvini vice premier is a matter of substance and as such must be addressed in Parliament. We therefore ask you when, Mr President, the Secretary, Minister and Vice Prime Minister Salvini will come to this House to clarify. Here, let's wait for an answer. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-18.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-18.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-18.ana.u18	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, 2018 is destined to be the year in which we will mark a first and a later one, including from the point of view of labour policies and in concrete contrast to employment instability. In my region, Abruzzo, as in the rest of Italy, years and years of bad management have left us as a legacy catastrophic and disastrous situations, starting from that of the precarious centers for employment. It is a scourge of absurdity, because the same people who should help others in the search for a job are concerned that they do not have a stable one. But it's not all because, in this unfortunate past, maladministration has also been combined with the "malalegiazione": since December 2014 there has been a real dismantling of staff, with the exception of L'Aquila. Then came the decree Madia, which did nothing but generate other disparities. To date, the Abruzzo precariousnesses of the centres for the use serve the requirements of highly injurious direct stabilisation and criteria for the implementation of the personnel who have not adequately considered the existing rankings, although they are valid, because they have been extended since 2014 by the various laws of stability. The result is that in the three provinces of Chieti, Teramo and Pescara there is currently no staff and therefore the essential levels of performance are not assured: one of the thousand contradictions that, with the certain and tireless activity of our Minister Di Maio, we are ready to sweep away. The report I have received was made by those workers and families in difficulty and will not fall into the void, Mr President, because the wind has changed. I repeat with pride what we have been repeating for years and which is written in black and white in our Government contract: the employment centers will be strengthened throughout the national territory, increasing the presence, efficiency and quality of services. At the same time, the training levels of the working staff will also be adjusted. Finally, Mr President, the road is set and we will do our utmost to ensure that all workers, including those working in employment centres, do not continue to see their rights trampled on. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-18.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-18.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-18.ana.u21	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, a few days ago it was the news that, with the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union, the European Parliament would like to reduce the number of Members from 751 to 705 in view of the 2019 elections. At the same time there is the proposal in the European Parliament's Committee on Constitutional Affairs for a new redistribution of seats which would give Italy three more seats. This news, particularly to us Valdostans, has not gone unnoticed. The Valle d'Aosta is, in fact, the only Italian Region to have almost the certainty that it is never represented in Brussels or Strasbourg in the European Parliament, as it is included in a large college in the North-West, which, from a numerical point of view, obliges us, whenever there are European elections, to appear to us, with results therefore totally ineffective and useless. This is why in the last few days, indeed yesterday, I have retabled a draft law, with some updates, which proposes the objective of creating a specific constituency for the Aosta Valley during the European elections, just as the constituent Fathers did when they provided, in the Statute of autonomy of Valdostana, for the creation of the one-name colleges for the general elections. Therefore, given the importance that we all know about this subject, I ask for the support of all the political forces present in this House, so that, with an act of genuine democracy, even the smallest region of our country, which represents a people living in the highest lands of Europe, and therefore with very particular needs and problems, may have the dignity of its representation in the European Parliament in order to contribute - we have always supported it, as convinced federalists - to the birth of a true Europe of peoples. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV) and Senator Mirabelli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-18.ana.u22	I wish you every success in your proposal, which you will certainly need.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-18.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-18.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-18.ana.u25	ORTOLANI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to bring back in real time the study that has been carried out in these hours on the disastrous flood, which yesterday affected the town of Moena: fortunately this event took place during the day. I remember they fell about 135 millimeters of rain in a few hours. What is interesting is that Moena rises on the valley floor of the stream Avisio and two minor streams, one on the right and one on the left, flow into the Avisio, which then leads into the Adige. The problem was not caused by the main stream, but by the two minor streams, as happened in Bussoleno some time ago and also, a few weeks ago, in Messina. The problem of the sudden effects of the clouds stems from the fact that we are not equipped to identify them: they are phenomena that strike us, without allowing any defence. Let us therefore pay attention to this aspect, which needs to be addressed, because climate change is making much less effective the hydraulic works we have carried out. This is therefore a problem that we need to consider in order to carry out a number of interventions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-18.ana.u26	Senator Ortolani, I feared that one of the two streams, right or left, was responsible for the flood, but they are both responsible in the same way, fortunately.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-18.ana.u27	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-18.ana.u28	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 10 July 2018, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.50 p.m.
