ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u3	The next item is the immediate questions (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Education, University and Research, the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Justice will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Laforgia has the right to explain the question 3-00316 on the request for additional certifications for access to municipal services by pupils of non-European citizenship, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u4	Mr President, the subject of our question is known to the Minister, because he has dealt with it and then because he has commented on it on several occasions, however relegating it to a local affair, which has become the honour of the national chronicles because of a sterile controversy (they are the Minister's words). We, Minister, do not think this is the case, because we think it is a case of genuine discrimination. The facts are very clear: the Municipality of Lodi adopts a resolution amending the municipal regulation and states, I quote, that "For the purpose of accepting the application for access to school services - we are talking, for example, about the cafeteria or the school bus - citizens of States not belonging to the European Union must produce - even if there is no income or registered real estate or movable property - the certification issued by the competent authority of the external State - accompanied by a translation in Italian legalized by the Italian Consular Authority attesting its conformity". Already this makes us understand how the request formulated is absurd; a complication formulated with regard to a well-defined category of people, to which another is added, contained in a subsequent resolution, even ridiculous, that has of the grotesque, because in that decision the Municipality draws, essentially, the list of countries that would be exempted from this obligation. People from Afghanistan, Libya, Yemen and Syria would be exempted from this extra complication. It is like saying, Minister, that those who come from Iraq, South Sudan, Haiti and Somalia are in a position to produce documents which, as you are well aware, cannot be produced under those conditions. We therefore think that we are faced with a case which must be resolved quickly, a situation which, if it were not tragic, would make us laugh. In fact, the final result of the operation, by the Municipality of Lodi, is that in the end they remain out of the essential services in a state of segregation - Minister, we are talking about this - the children who should instead go to the same spaces and take advantage of the same services as all the others. We are therefore asking you how you intend to permanently heal a situation which we consider unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u5	The Minister for Education, Universities and Research, Dr. Bussetti, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u6	Mr President, I would like to answer the question by pointing out in advance that the Ministry of Education, University and Research does not have a specific and direct competence on the school cafeteria service, which, as you know, belongs to the local authorities, which provide for the award of the relevant contracts and determine in total autonomy the rates to be applied. This does not mean that the Ministry is indifferent to the way in which the local authorities provide the cafeteria service in schools, in view of the fact that also that of the meal constitutes for the pupils and the pupils a time of educational enrichment and sharing. As for the specific question put to me, I provide some clarifications shared with the Ministry of the Interior. The indicator of the equivalent economic situation (ISEE) is, as you know, the instrument of assessment through which the economic situation of those who require facilitated social benefits is determined. Article 2, paragraph 6, of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers n. 159 of 2013, states that the ISEE is calculated on the basis of the information collected with the DSU model, i.e. the single replacement declaration in relation to the household, produced pursuant to the single text of the laws and regulations on administrative documentation. The said single text, in Article 3, provides that nationals of States not belonging to the European Union who are legally resident in Italy may use the replacement declarations, of which Articles 46 and 47 are limited to the states, personal qualities and facts certifiable or attested by Italian public entities or in the event that the production of such declarations takes place in application of international conventions between Italy and the country of origin of the declarant. Apart from these cases, the States, personal qualities and facts must be documented by the production of certificates or certificates issued by the competent authority of the foreign State, accompanied by translation into Italian. Therefore, the decision of the Municipality of Lodi has been limited to apply, with reference to the income or economic situation, the current discipline, providing for exceptions in favour of non-EU citizens having the status of political refugee, as well as those belonging to countries where it is objectively impossible to acquire the required documentation. In addition, according to the competent prefecture, guidelines were adopted last October 17 by the Municipality of Lodi to further facilitate non-EU citizens in demonstrating that they possess the requirements to take advantage of the economic facilities for their children's access to the school cafeteria service. I conclude with the invitation not to exploit isolated episodes, as there is only the risk of nourishing the social contrast, losing sight instead of the importance of system actions, such as those put in place in a few months by this Government, which has put in place significant measures for young people, for families and for the fight against poverty. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Mr Marcucci (PD). And what are they? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I give the floor to Senator Laforgia to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u7	Mr Minister, you say that your Ministry does not have the right to enter into this affair, which is not the case. We, for the truth, had addressed this question to Mr Salvini, but it doesn't matter that he answered you, because he is a member of a government in which the Ministers respond jointly and severally to the things they say and do. You are now giving us an answer that is not only unsatisfactory, but also allows you to escape the responsibility that should be borne by you, that is, to bring this country back into a state of law, a condition that is not respected by this operation. You're doing a political operation on the skin of the weakest. In this case those subjects are weak, because they come from other countries, from complicated conditions and I have referred to the list of countries that would be exempted from this obligation precisely to say that we are talking, however, about very complicated events. However, those subjects are weak because they are above all children and we must restore a rule of law. If anything, it is the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers No 159 of 5 December 2013 that constitutes the standard of reference, so I urge you to apply it. I therefore believe that you have the responsibility to bring this country back into the rule of law. We ask you this and it is your duty and your responsibility. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u8	Senator Rampi has the right to explain the question 3-00321 on the protection of foreign minors in the use of the school's ancillary services, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u9	Minister, I do not have to explain to you what happened in Lodi, because we all know it and cannot be cleared with the bureaucratic explanation we heard earlier: what happened in Lodi is a serious matter of discrimination. A Minister of Education must set himself the aim of guaranteeing to all the girls and children of this country the right-to-have to go to school and to have access to all the school services, even to the cafeteria which, as you well said, is a training moment that is fully and fully part of the key, pedagogical moment of the school. A minister must ensure that in all the Italian municipalities, with any administration, of any political color, those girls and those children go to school and absolve their right-duty. This goes beyond competence, because it is a competence that concerns the right to study and calls into question the humanity of all of us. In the Italian schools of today, in fact, there is the country of tomorrow, the country of the future, a country where children and girls are together and do not know what nation or culture their neighbor comes from: they know that he is a child with whom they play. In Lodi, thanks to a bureaucratic trick, someone told those children that a certain child, at the time of the cafeteria, could no longer be with them. The fact that a community has moved, has been active, has raised funds, has had the capacity to react, which is a positive fact, cannot be the response of a civil state, a European state, a G7 state to a subject like this. That can't be it. You must give a signal that it is exactly the opposite of what has happened in recent weeks, when a municipal administration, ideologically, has cowardly used a bureaucratic quirk to make discrimination, not even having the courage to do it face-to-face but saying that it has done nothing but apply the law. I was a city councilman and I fought the cunning canteens, but I didn't make up any tricks not to let the children go to school: I gave the children the chance to go to school and to the cafeteria and I took care to recover the money from their parents, who came from the most varied countries (but many were Italians) and maybe didn't pay that service. I never thought - and none of us ever thought - of not providing the service to children. Here, in front of an administration that behaves like this, a State, a Ministry intervenes immediately and makes it clear to all administrations that no one can afford to do this in Italy. Instead, this government has given political coverage to that behavior and created conditions for other administrations to do so. I ask you to reverse the course and tell us what you intend to do and also what are those projects for the young people you have just announced but which we have not yet identified in the government action. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u10	The Minister for Education, Universities and Research, Dr. Bussetti, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u11	Mr President, I would like to respond to the question which has just been raised in the reply to the same question, namely that the Ministry of Education, University and Research does not have a specific direct competence in the service of school cafeteria which, as is well known, belongs to the municipalities, which does not mean that the Ministry is indifferent to the subject, because having school canteens means being able to offer full time at school and thus supporting families, giving an opportunity for a more articulated choice for educational purposes. I come now to what you asked. As regards the alleged violation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which has come back to your question, I would like to say that the competent Department of Family Policy of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers has pointed out that the Convention provides that primary education should be compulsory and free of charge and that appropriate measures are taken for secondary education, such as free teaching and the provision of a financial grant in case of need. The aforementioned Department has therefore concluded that in the case of Lodi no rights have been violated, since access to school and primary education has been guaranteed to all pupils irrespective of nationality. The same Department has also excluded that there has been a violation of the European directives in the matter of non discrimination on the basis of nationality and status of immigration, as the decision of the Municipality of Lodi is aimed at photographing the redditual and patrimonial situation of Italian, Community and non-EU citizens, precisely in order not to create discrimination in the access of the ancillary services of the school. On the other hand, with regard to the request for what initiatives it intends to take, in reaffirming that the legislation restores to the autonomy of local authorities the management of the canteen service, which must be organised and modulated according to the real need of the territories because of the specificity of the local socio-economic context, I can only stress that it is not necessary to generalize isolated cases, whose consequences have been magnified, given that, as reported by the competent school office of Lodi, pupils who do not benefit from the canteen service are in limited number and in line with the past years. The school, the most important institution of our country, which has the very delicate task of forming the new generations, does not deserve, as unfortunately often happens, to be involved in sterile exploitations and controversy. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). From you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malpezzi has the power to intervene in replica for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u12	Mr Minister, I am sorry, because you had the opportunity here to speak as Minister of Education and as a man of school, as you are, and the words you have spoken here, in the previous answer and in the one concerning our question, are not words of a schoolman and much less of a Minister of Education. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] I say this because you have given so many interviews, since September, you have tried to sail among those who were the rights of children and the duties of parents, which no one has ever questioned, because those same parents want to pay, they only ask to be put in a position to prove what they have and what they do not have, in order to be able to pay the right, no more, no less. It is, therefore, a matter of justice. But at the end of all this, Minister, his voice should have been heard, because those who paid the bill were not even the parents, but it was those children who paid the bill of separation and discrimination against their classmates and a Minister of Education, regardless of whether this is the technical competence of his Ministry, about this intervenes and says it aloud. He says that that fact that happened in Lodi and that unfortunately is beginning to spread in other municipalities of the hinterland of Milan, is an unworthy fact. Perhaps it is of interest to all of you always to maintain that certain climate of tension that the minister so much likes, too, that he sits next to her, that he remembers to be a father, but probably does not have the same affection towards children that white skin does not have it. You who are a man of school, why didn't you tell your colleague Minister - and father - Salvini, that the cafeteria time is school time and that therefore your Legist mayor is undermining the rights of children? [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups.]] Why didn't you tell him, Minister? Why didn't you tell him when Minister Salvini stood up for the mayor of Lodi and said it was okay? Unfortunately, Minister, the Italians are always the weakest among us at first crying out. You swore on the Constitution: the only slogan, the only element you need to take into account is children first. That's what you're asked. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u13	Senator Gallone has the right to explain the question 3-00319 on the shortage of staff of the school administration, especially in Lombardy, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, last August MIUR requested and obtained authorization from the Ministry of Economic Affairs for 57,322 new permanent recruitments in children's school, primary school and first and second grade secondary school for the school year 2018-2019. Well, only 25,105 (i.e. 43.8 percent) have been successful, as many as six out of 10 professors have remained vacant and the drama is on support, where out of 13,329 posts have been employed only 1,682 teachers, 12.6 percent. The recruitment system, therefore, needs to be updated, because in this way it probably does water. The ranking, now firm in 2016, is running out and of the three competitions planned for this year only one is in progress. At the beginning of the school year, it is right in the North, alas, that the lowest number of chairs was assigned, almost 13,000 out of over 34,000. A bit better goes to the Centre (41 percent) and the South (63 percent). In my region, Lombardy, there is not only a shortage of teachers, but out of a total number of 1,142 schools there is something missing as 329 school leaders and almost 500 schools lack directors of administrative services. To make the situation even more complicated to unravel there is also the shortage of staff in regional school offices. Always to stay in my region, the Ministry she led would assign to the regional school office of Lombardy 675 units, divided between the various provincial territorial areas. On the other hand, the actual presences are less than half. In the territorial school office of my Province, therefore of the Province of Bergamo, out of 72 planned presences only 22 are effective and this is a real cry for help, because, Minister, the administrative staff of the territorial school offices of Lombardy is really faced with great organizational difficulties to try to ensure the proper continuation of the school year, through an intensification of the work - to the Bergamosca, I would say - remarkably embarrassing the mood of students and parents to the repetition of situations of discomfort that lead more and more often to the reduction of the offer. As it remains necessary to launch new competitions for teachers of the role and especially those of support, in order not to put the regional school offices again in a position to perform miracles at the beginning of the school year, it is equally urgent to take initiatives to resolve the situation of shortage of staff in which these offices are located. Minister, you are not only a man of school, but you have also been the manager of the Lombardy regional school office in the area of the territory of Milan, which is why I address you in a particularly heartfelt way. This comforts me, because his experience and love for the school will actually be decisive elements for the growth of the country, even if today's interview on the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) has worried me not a little about the chapter in the budget of the school, missing in its specificity, but then we will talk about this and I hope that she will fight hard for the school to have the right recognition. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u15	The Minister for Education, Universities and Research, Dr. Bussetti, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u16	Mr President, Senator Gallone, I am aware, through direct experience, of the fundamental role that local school offices play in support of school institutions in their daily activities; I am equally aware of the fact that, for years now, school offices have suffered from a serious shortage of staff that affects all the regions of Italy and that it has been determined by the strict recruitment constraints imposed, in the recent past, on all public administrations, including school. These serious shortcomings have been dealt with by the administrative staff in service. Thanks to the commendable commitment of this staff, it has been possible to overcome the organizational difficulties and to ensure the proper start and smooth running of school activity over all these years; to such staff, as to all the staff of the school, my heartfelt thanks go to them. The difficulties facing the local school offices will, at least in part, be mitigated by the recruitment of 253 Area III officials, with administrative, legal and accounting powers, whose recruitment procedures are being completed and which will soon be allocated to the headquarters and outlying offices of the Administration. The pre-selection test of the competition took place on 27 and 28 September and on 3 October, the list of candidates admitted to the written test was published. I assure you that I will ensure that the competition process ends as soon as possible. I would add that the three-year plan of recruitment, which I sent to the Department of Civil Service on 25 September last, provides, in addition to the assumption of the winners of the competition to which I referred earlier, to ban a new competition procedure to recruit 95 other officials and to hire the suitable of various competitions, also banned from other administrations. This latter initiative will enable staff to be recruited quickly and to be assigned to the seats which are suffering most. Precisely in this perspective and in the awareness of the particular difficulties faced by the territorial school offices of the northern regions of the country, in particular those of Lombardy, I recently signed a directive that gives precise indications to the competent Ministry's management on how to allocate the quota of staff to be hired, giving absolute priority precisely to these offices. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Gallone has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u17	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I am partially satisfied, considering that already on other occasions near the beginning of the school year it has stated that it wants to heal the situation regarding the belief of teachers, ATA staff and administrative staff, but at the moment ad hoc competitions we do not see it. While waiting, however, for the situation of school staff to unblock, I come back only for a moment to the question of regional school offices, which are really close to collapse, with the fact that, due to the blockage of turnover, the few younger workers are over forty years of age, while the others are about fifty-eight years old on average. If the only worker employed in one of the departments of the local school office retires, the one closes because there is no substitute: this is the case, for example of Mantua and Cremona (there are different school offices, so as not to make it a question of bell tower, of course). Workers and workers have worked hundreds of hours of overtime, paid today for only 25%, to guarantee the right to education of so many Lombard children. I would remind you, Minister, that we will be with you, of course, in all that can be done. It is a great responsibility, because guaranteeing the right to study, as per the Constitution, is sacrosanct. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u18	Senator Iwobi has the right to explain the question 3-00320 on the accompaniment by French agents of migrants on the border between Italy and France for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u19	Mr President, Senators, Senators, Interior Minister Matteo Salvini, thank you for your presence in this House. Premises that: in recent days a van of the French gendarmerie has been spotted by the Italian police near Claviere, Municipality of Alta Val di Susa, in the metropolitan City of Turin, while it sent down some people, most probably of the migrants of African origin, in a wooded area just before the tunnel of Cesana Torinese, adjacent to the state border; after having accomplished this operation, the van has then returned to French territory; the Italian police has done to note the plate and to start a series of investigations on the facts; in the records in possession of the Digos, the van is spotted while it brings down the presumed migrants, who have then come into the woods losing their tracks; the Digos has transmitted the images to the attorney of Turin, who then promptly opened a file, if the facts were confirmed, Minister, it would be a very serious precedent, since, in the light of the international agreements in force, in cases of the kind, the foreign authority is required to warn the police commissioner or the station of the carabinieri di zone. It cannot be excluded that there have been attempts to lead even minor migrants in Italian territory, as denounced by numerous organizations and by some mayors of border municipalities. In view of the fact that, after the requests made by Farnesina to the French embassy in Rome, the French authorities confirmed the event; according to the main newspapers, the prefecture of the French Hautes-Alpes region would have spoken, in this regard, of a mistake made by the gendarmes, because of the fact that the same were in service for a few days in the Region and did not know the place well. The prefecture would then have specified that, within a mission of repatriation of irregular foreigners, a vehicle of the French gendarmerie would have crossed the Franco-Italian border towards Claviere, without prior authorization from the Italian police, as confirmed by the first checks carried out by the same prefecture. He asked, Minister, if the facts referred to in the preamble were true, whether there were written and formal agreements between Italy and France allowing such operations.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u20	The Minister for the Interior, Senator Salvini, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u21	Yes, it is true, Senator: the French authorities break the law repeatedly. In the morning of October 13 - it is now evident - the staff of Digos noticed in the City of Claviere a van of the gendarmerie, from which two young foreigners were coming down to the woods. The episode gave rise to the opening, by the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Turin, of an investigation for the crime of transport of foreigners in the territory of the State. The authorities, in response to the request for an explanation, spoke of a regrettable mistake, announcing an internal investigation, but it is clear that leaving immigrants in an Italian forest cannot be considered a mistake or an accident. What happened to Claviere is obviously a serious fact, partly because it is not an isolated fact: it is of these minutes the denunciation of the Red Cross of Ventimiglia of the expulsion of two minors donated for age, even, by the French authorities on the border with Italy, and there are many other evidence of illegality committed by the French authorities, to the face of any international agreement or treaty. What are we doing? Of course, we have intensified controls; we have sent state police patrols; we ask the French authorities to know the names, surnames, age and nationality of those who have been rejected, recalling the 50,000 rejected since 1 January last year at the borders between France and Italy and, above all, we do not accept lessons, neither from the French, nor from the Italian left because we respect the rules. We have welcomed 700,000 people in recent years, but it's too much. We simply restored border controls, waiting for Europe to move a finger. Europe is very ready to send letters to Italy about economic maneuvers and very distracted when they expel children selling them for age, which is a beast that goes far beyond what I have heard before. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FI-BP Groups]] Waiting for the letter that will arrive from Brussels to Paris, let's do it on our own; let's verify that the laws are respected and, meanwhile, the fact that I update you to today thanks to a serious policy is that the 111,000 landings last year are stopped at 21,000 and the billion euro saved will serve to put less money in the pocket of the coops and fake refugees and to guarantee 10,000 men of the security forces of our country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FI-BP Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u22	I give the floor to Senator Iwobi to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u23	[[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u24	One moment, please, a little respect. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FI-BP Groups]] Minister, I am and are deeply satisfied because it is in the right of each Government to protect and defend its own borders and that is what the current Italian Minister of the Interior, Matteo Salvini, is doing. Thank you and good work. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FI-BP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u25	Senator Marsilio has the right to explain the question 3-00317 on the situation of the Italian penitentiary system, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u26	Mr President, Minister, prison conditions are dramatic and unworthy of a civilised country. If the poor conditions of the prisons affect the prisoners, an even worse condition is experienced by the workers in the section (prisoners, the administration of justice, health care and volunteers who serve). There's only a small amount of data to realize that. Last month there were almost 60,000 prisoners in prisons all over Italy. In June there were 58,000, constantly increasing, against a regulatory capacity of just over 50,000. On the contrary, the staff of the prison police is only 35,000 units compared to the 41,000 expected, about 15 percent less forces compared to a 20 percent more presences. It means that, if the organic plant were complete, they would have a load of 20 percent more work; under these conditions the workload comes over 40 percent more. The practical translation of these numbers is that agents are forced into massacred shifts and fewer than the minimum safety conditions. Just to give an example, in the prison of Teramo, which I visited, 130 staff cover the work of 220 units, with 150 inmates in supernumber. They have accumulated 16,000 days of unpaid leave, 45,000 hours of overtime and the rule is the carrying out of massacred shifts, with agents who are often forced to stay even beyond the time for higher service needs. This also happens because prison police officers cannot strike to enforce their rights and leave the prisoners unattended. In Rebibbia, on the other hand, where net of the staff registered only on paper, there are vacation rates that reach 83% for Commissioners and fall, however, to 16% for agents and assistants. The security conditions in which these agents work, often the subject of frequent attacks, are aggravated by the presence among foreigners of thousands of Islamic prisoners sensitive to violent radicalisation and even more precarious are made by the introduction of so-called dynamic vigilance. It is a beautiful invention that provides for the free movement of prisoners in common spaces and arms, however left there to "pasture" without doing anything. On 20 July last, on the occasion of the oath of the course of prison police officers, you, Minister, made commitments that have so far been disregarded and that are the subject of our questions (commitments which, moreover, we share on the subject). We ask the government to allocate the funds to hire staff and complete the organic plant. Instead of distributing citizenship income, we better use resources and create real work. We also call for immediate action to be taken on the content of the agenda presented by Brothers of Italy and approved yesterday in the Chamber of Deputies to transfer foreigners abroad in excess. We also call for the role of agents to be strengthened and protected, including by means of tasers and anti-aggression instruments; to go back to the so-called Orlando reform and, above all, to dynamic supervision; to develop the use, so far marginal, of prisoners for the performance of work of social utility, which is the best way for their social reintegration, also to obey the constitutional dictation.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u27	The Minister for Justice, Mr Bonafede, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u28	Mr President, the questioner said very well when he spoke about the situation of prisons in Italy, which is literally dramatic, not to say tragic. This is a situation that we inherited from the past, when the only solution that was found for prison overcrowding, with serious endangerment also of the security of the prison agents, was to take a measure of indult or emptiness to send out uneducated prisoners, who then clearly returned to prison. Among the areas on which this Government wants to invest the most are precisely the re-education of the prisoners and the safety of the conditions in which prison police officers work, which do a very important job not only for the strict supervision of the prisoners, but also in terms of prevention. In fact, prisoners who are part of society must have made a re-educational journey; if they have done so, they will not return to crime. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Not to mention the important monitoring carried out by the prison police in terms of the prevention of terrorism and the mafia. With particular reference to the shortage of staff - it is a sadly widespread figure throughout the national territory - the State stands at a total coverage rate of 9.9 per cent, which mainly affects the figures of inspectors and superintendents. In order to stem the effects of the reduction of the staff precisely with regard to these professional figures, corrective measures have been taken, such as the placing in the role of 976 new deputy inspectors of the prison police body appointed at the end of the related training course in itinere, as well as the activation of the procedures for the internal competition for a total of 2.851 posts for the appointment of deputy supervisor of the role of men and women. In any case, I would like to call for an investment of EUR 500 million in security personnel, including prison police personnel. With regard to penitentiary housing, thanks to more recent increases in financial resources, the situations of poor construction due to the degradation of buildings are being reduced. For the purpose of increasing the current accommodation capacity from 51,200 to at least 60,000 places, proceedings are already underway initiated by the Prison Plan, currently managed by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, for new institutions and pavilions, for about 3,800 new regulatory posts. I want to make it clear that most of these resources had already been invested in the last parliamentary term, but, apart from the chatter that was being made about the interest in the lives of prisoners, they have been blocked for two or three years. Now, we have already activated to unlock the money that was already there and were left there; not only: in the Ministry there is a working group that, in task force version, is trying to work to evaluate the possibility of converting in urgent times some military barracks disused, in order to provide for the emergency of the penitentiary building, not only in terms of ordinary and extraordinary maintenance, but also of new prisons, where necessary. With regard to the invitation to evaluate the possibility of atonement for foreign prisoners in their countries of origin, I stress that there is a commitment not only by the Ministry of Justice but also by the Ministry of the Interior to maintain as many diplomatic relations as possible with the countries most involved. I am just saying that since September I have met the Ministers of Justice of Albania, Romania and Morocco precisely to try to implement and intensify as much as possible the operations of expiation of the sentence in the country of origin, and we are already having results in the technical tables. The possibility of using the taser is the subject of evaluation by the Ministry, not so much in the use within the prisons, where no weapon can be used - let's be quite clear - but in the operations of transfer of prisoners, in which it is probably quieter if the prison police officer has a taser instead of a gun. From this point of view, therefore, its use is being examined in cases where this becomes strictly essential. As for the security of prison police officers, but also of prisoners, a circular letter of 9 October 2018 is trying to intensify all possible applications of existing laws that provide for the transfer to other institutions of subjects who prove to be dangerous and who are in unsuitable facilities, to safeguard the safety of all. The Orlando reform, to which the honourable Member has referred, as is well known, has been blocked in the part where it constituted yet another empty prisons, which would have also involved problems for the safety of prison police officers. On the other hand, there is still the part of that reform that meets everyone's needs, especially with a view to a better life in prisons. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u29	Senator Marsilio has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u30	Minister, of course, I can be satisfied when we see at least some of the good intentions that you have declared - and the Government has the burden of proof - even if from the numbers you have said, admitting that these operations are going to be carried out in real times, there is still a lack of at least another 2,000 assumptions to complete the organic plant. He has not given us any assurances about dynamic vigilance; on the contrary, I understand that, when he defends a part of the Orlando reform that came into force to make prisons feel better, he may be referring to this, but he did not casually talk about it. I am also unsatisfied that you consider taser a dangerous weapon, with the consequence that people who suffer aggressions in prisons have to defend themselves with bare hands, as is the case today, and in serious numerical inferiority, also because of personnel deficiencies. Of course, we have some doubts that you can achieve these programs: we are sure that the party with which you signed a government contract shares these values, because you signed them with us as Brothers of Italy; it is in your party that I fear there is still too much radical and good-natured subculture of those who think that being on the side of the weakest means reversing the common sense of things, to the point of thinking more about how badly-treated the poor prisoners are than to the concrete and real working conditions of prison police officers. It is also the same subculture that leads the deputy of the mayor Rays to meet and defend the squatters, while the Minister of the Interior tries to give life to a season of evictions and demolitions, which we look forward to seeing with anxiety, but of which we have not yet seen any practical act. Of course we give time to the time: we are here to wait and verify - because the role of the opposition is also this - that the Government does its duty for the good of the Italians. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u31	Senator Piarulli has the right to explain the question 3-00318 on initiatives to combat gender violence, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u32	Mr President, Minister, since violence against women is any act of violence based on gender which causes physical, sexual or psychological harm or suffering for women, including threats, coercion, arbitrary deprivation of freedom. It is also stated that, as demonstrated by the official statistics and the numerous requests for help from victims of domestic violence, stalking or sexual abuse at the appropriate listening centres located on the national territory, as well as by recent reports, this phenomenon is constantly growing. To this must then be added, unfortunately, the whole of the gender violence not denounced by wives, employees of private or public companies or minors for fear of the consequences or because they feel unjustly guilty of such aggression. In view of the fact that a number of draft laws have been filed on the subject of parliamentary initiative aimed at combating the phenomenon, the Minister is asked what initiatives he intends to take to combat this problem which is taking the form of a real social scourge. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Justice, Mr Bonafede, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u33	Mr President, the Senator, who has been asking for the constant growth of victims of domestic violence, stalking or sexual abuse, asks what initiatives the Minister intends to take, including on a regulatory level, to combat the phenomenon of gender-based violence. Let us start with a premise: the scourge of gender-based violence is not only a social scourge, it is a cultural scourge, a tragic scourge that must see all political forces - as you will surely see - engaged in a conflict that must be clear and must - I repeat - act in terms of prevention first of all cultural. In the last parliamentary term, the Istanbul Convention was ratified, but only in the part - unfortunately - in which there was basically action on the tightening of penalties. We must realise that it is absolutely right to tighten the penalties, but we all know that it does not have a deterrent effect on this kind of crime. One who wants to pay a bribe nourishes in his mind the thought and wonders what he will pay in terms of prison at the time he will be caught with the bribe; but one who is practicing violence against a woman is not asking himself the problem of the penalties that he will face later. This requires the state to act in prevention. From this point of view, the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and provisions on the protection of victims of domestic and gender-based violence was presented to the Ministry of Justice today. It is the so-called red code: these are actions that try to act in prevention. In other words, when a woman decides with great difficulty, through a path of courage that must not be taken for granted, to turn to the State perhaps to denounce the domestic violence she is suffering, at that moment the State must act immediately, as happens in the First Aid in the face of a serious case. Therefore, this bill, which we can summarize as a red code, provides that the agent or public official who receives the complaint must immediately give notice, without any possibility of discretion on the assessment of urgency or not, to the prosecutor, who within three days must hear the person who made the complaint. After that, the measure marks all times: at the moment when it delegates to the police judicial investigations, the police must give a preference and act immediately; and after he has carried out the investigations, always immediately, he must inform the prosecutor. Moreover, it is planned - and that is why there is the concert with Minister Giulia Bongiorno, who strongly wanted this measure and I thank here publicly for the wonderful collaboration and intercourse that saw us working together [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] - training for agents and all those who will have the opportunity to speak with the complainant. All these aspects are fundamental, because we assume that in an emergency room you go when someone has a serious problem, especially in a situation of code red: one is sick, so he goes to the emergency room and there is an urgency assigned to his case. Here's one thing to stress: it's not obvious that that woman will turn to the state, and then the state, in the face of that gesture of courage, must reach out immediately [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] ; at the mere mention of that woman asking for help, stretch her hand and accompany her on a path of protection, which is qualified not only in the response times but also in the quality of the response and support. The Government is strongly committed to the protection of women and, in any case, against gender violence. We have several currently active tables: the first to the Presidency of the Council concerning the National Anti-Violence Plan coordinated by the Undersecretary Vincenzo Spadafora, in which our Ministry actively participates, and the second to the protection of victims of crime in general. Finally, we are working on the Fund for the victims of violent international crimes with the aim of increasing the amount of compensation to be paid to victims and eliminating some regulatory stakes that preclude their access. Let me make it clear how important it is for justice to be perceived by our citizens not as an entity that meets when things have gone wrong and when there is no chance of going back; I like to think that citizens think, imagine and perceive Italian justice as an area on which the State invests and which comes to you in a prevention phase when the crime has not yet been committed. If this applies in general to all, it applies to all those women who in Italy suffer violence from those who think they can be considered a man by exploiting their physical strength, and who, on the other hand, cannot be considered a person, not a man but not a person, because they are the animals who think they can overcome each other through violence. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] MALPEZZI (PD). We know this plan: it is the Boschi plan. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malpezzi, can't we do this an hour later? Don't worry. Senator Piarulli has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u34	Mr President, I am very pleased with what the Minister has learned, as a demonstration of your sensitivity to this issue. I trust in overcoming such conflict situations that lead daily to dramatic events that are almost helpless. Thank you, Mr Bonafede. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u35	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u37	You have the right to do so. (Brusio). Parent (PD). Mr President, I am sorry to take the floor in this climate, but I am speaking about a tragedy that has happened in our city, in the capital: one of our daughters, who has been raped for 12 hours, died, a 16-year-old girl. In these cases, silence - as a mother, I say - is the answer that expresses the closestness to his family, to his friends, to his friends, to his sixteen-year-old peers. But from now on, each of us must do our part to ensure the safety and freedom of our daughters.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u38	[[Applause from the PD Group]] I'm excited at night when my son doesn't come back, too. However, this is the job of parents and we must guarantee them freedom and social well-being for citizens and citizens. In particular, we are close to the citizens and the towns of the San Lorenzo district, full of young people: it is beautiful to go there in the evening, because there the boys and girls meet. As I said, however, we must be close to the citizens and citizens of that neighborhood in order to solve situations of degradation of stables such as the one in San Lorenzo where the tragedy of this girl took place. I have here with me the minutes of these months of the Territorial Observatory for Security with regard to via dei Lucani; I have bothered to read them and it is clear from them that the Forces of Order denounce a shortage of personnel and can not guarantee security on the territory. There is a letter from the municipal administration calling for the intervention of the prefecture, which is the body that is in charge of ensuring security and solving the problem of that site. I say again, as a mother, that every minute that passes without solving the problems that are spoken of in these minutes, in which there are alarm shouts, is a lost minute, with the risk of having other tragedies of this kind. Minister Salvini, Minister of State and Minister of all of us, went there yesterday. It is up to him to answer the minute after the alarm screams contained in these minutes. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Bottici and Papatheu.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u41	LOMUTI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, I am obliged to report today in this House the repetition of incessant episodes involving my land, Basilicata, where there is a President of the Region who has spent almost ninety days under house arrest, a measure that has now become a prohibition of residence in the capital, Potenza, which is then the seat of the Regional Council and the Junta. Two days ago it was reported that a new investigation by the judiciary has put the entire Regional Council under investigation, and thus again Governor Pittella, for cases of malasanity and for abuse of office regarding the appointments of some commissioners. I regret the seriousness of this new intervention of the judiciary on the management of health care, because it is clear that in Basilicata it is always and in any case health to stimulate the greater interests. To the lucani this section costs as much as 1.3 billion euros, almost half of the entire regional budget. What does it produce? Malasanity, health migration, hospital closure and warranty notices alternated with protective custody orders. We are talking, however, above all, about a depressed economic area and therefore about a sector that intervenes to consume, as already said, almost half of the regional budget, thus causing great dangers for the establishment of mafia infiltrations, as well as favoritism, clientele, contracts, advice, recruitment and who knows what else. I do not speak of the risk of the mob's settlement in Basilicata; that there is the mob in Basilicata says the district attorney antimafia of Potenza Francesco Curcio. That in Basilicata the interweaving between mafia and politics is well grenade and oiled I do not say it, but the former national attorney antimafia Franco Roberti, who in 2017 spoke of a certain skill of the Mafia Lucana, compared to the other mafias, to intertwine relations with local politicians and administrators. If you will allow me, Mr President, my reflection is that where there are these political interweavings and inappropriate positions there is also the vote of exchange - on which the majority voted yesterday - and, where there is an exchange vote, the premises can be created for convergence between the mafia and politics. The institutions should already have intervened on the Basilicata issue, manifesting the indignation for a President of the Region who does not resign against a serious precautionary measure, while maintaining a Regional Council that still promotes assignments, advice and who knows what else. The other day on the "Day of Basilicata" there was a title on the request from the councillors of the Regional Council to go to vote in February, when the natural deadline of the current Junta and the Council is November 17, then in about twenty days. It seems to be in the cartoons of the "Simpsons"; where there are investigations involving the entire Regional Council, instead of resigning and showing a certain dignity to the people of Lucano, it asks to move on again. Their clear intention is in fact to avoid voting for students and seniors in February, who with the cold and frost might have problems voting, and to be able to move forward with the hard core of their electoral basin. Therefore, while they are calling for the vote to be postponed, I am asking today instead that we should vote immediately, that we should vote before the end of the year, perhaps before Christmas. It is not a personal request, but the demand of a people tired of being exploited and hostage to a totally absent policy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u42	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-52.ana.u43	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 5 November, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.06 a.m.
