ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Carossino, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. Question 3 00035 on the implementation of the legislation on early processing arrangements will be first addressed. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to begin by thanking the interrogating senators for their inspection of a subject on which the Ministry of Health, despite the objective difficulties that I am about to highlight, has done a great deal in recent months to achieve, as soon as possible, the effective application of an extremely important and innovative law. As we know, Law No 219 of 22 December 2017 introduced in our law the provisions of advance treatment (the so-called DAT), in order to ensure to every citizen the protection of the right to life, to health, to the dignity and self-determination of the person, establishing that no health treatment can be started or continued if without the free and informed consent of the person concerned, except in cases expressly provided for by the legislation. In order to allow a concrete application of the law - which in this respect appeared objectively incomplete - with other normative intervention, contained in the budget law (Article 1, paragraph 418 of the law of 27 December 2017, n. 205), the institution, at the Ministry of Health, of the database destined for the registration of the anticipated provisions of treatment, whose modalities have been entrusted to a special decree of the Minister of Health, to be issued within 180 days of the entry into force of the budget law. It is well known that immediately after the adoption of the above-mentioned regulatory provisions, there were many doubts about the concrete application of the new discipline, especially with regard to the new activities carried out by civil status officers. For this reason, the Ministry of the Interior, in agreement with the Ministry of Health, has promptly intervened, with Circular No. 1 of 8 February 2018, providing the first operational indications as well as clarifications concerning the aspects of competence of the offices of the civil state. Already on this occasion, however, it was clear that the new discipline was particularly complex in terms of application and in any case in need - in order to be fully operational - of the decree of the Minister of Health establishing the database of the DAT for which an inevitable later deadline (as said, six months) had been foreseen) compared to that of entry into force of the law on DAT. For the drafting of this ministerial decree, the Ministry of Health immediately activated itself, setting up a working group, composed also of representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, the Regions and the Guarantor for the protection of personal data. Already from the first meetings of the working group, however, considerable interpretative doubts have emerged as to the correct scope of the new provisions, which unfortunately covered points of departure for the same further progress of the work and, therefore, to justify the justification of a specific question to the Council of State. Consequently, on 22 June 2018, among the first acts carried out by the new Minister Grillo, the question was formalised, to which the Council of State replied on 18 July 2018. It should be pointed out that in making the requested opinion, the Supreme Counsel, meeting at the solemn headquarters of the General Meeting, had to recognize, I quote: "the complexity of the regulatory framework as well as certain non-univocal expressions used by the legislator" which could lead to concrete difficulties in applying Law No 219 of 2017, which could frustrate the significant innovative scope of the relevant provisions." The clarifications provided by the Council of State have, therefore, finally given the necessary impetus to the drafting of the draft ministerial decree and the draft related technical regulations, both in the very advanced definition phase. I am pleased to inform, in fact, that the draft decree drawn up by the Ministry of Health, with a view to a wider sharing of new requirements that will also affect external subjects, has been shared in recent days with the main institutional stakeholders, who have been asked to provide their possible observations in a short time. As a result of this phase, which has been deemed necessary - I intend to reiterate - precisely to involve the main recipients of the operational indications contained in the Ministerial Decree in order to ensure its full operation once approved, I recall that the draft decree, according to the provisions of the last Budget Law, must be submitted to the agreement at the Permanent Conference for relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, after obtaining the favorable opinion of the Guarantor Authority for the protection of personal data. With regard to information activities, specifically mentioned in the inspection act, I would also like to point out that the Ministry of Health, in compliance with article 4, paragraph 6, of Law No 219 of 2017, has provided in terms of law to disseminate through its institutional portal the contents provided for by the legislation in a DAT manner. In this regard, however, I would like to assure the interrogating senators that the institutional information activity will certainly be revived and strengthened following the definitive approval of the aforementioned decree of the Ministry of Health, whose time, in the light of the above, no longer depend in fact on the activity of this Dicastery.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u7	FARAONE (PD). Mr President, I am particularly concerned after the Secretary's reply. I say this, all the more so, because this measure which we adopted in the last parliamentary term was not political in nature. Therefore, I do not have to defend something that the Government of the last parliamentary term has done, which has left Parliament absolute freedom on such sensitive issues on which it is right that there should be freedom of conscience. I am not, therefore, carrying out a political intervention, but I am simply worrying about enforcing a state law. The Movimento 5 Stars and - I remember - the current Minister Grillo, member of the Health Commission in the House, were also protagonists of the approval of this measure. The League opposed it, but the Movimento 5 stars, along with us, brought this law forward and with us passed it. The fact that, since the law has been passed to the present day, in the municipalities they are not able materially to realize the anticipated provisions of treatment and every municipality acts independently, provide different forms, give different times and there is no overall direction and that you tell me in your response, in conclusion, that by now it no longer depends on you, almost washing the hands of the concrete application of the provision, worries me. As a ministry, we had to carry out some tasks that had to be done quickly. As a Ministry, we should also be concerned about understanding how the measure is applied in practice and correctly. You didn't answer me about that. It simply sent me back to a conference between the State and the Regions, which will have to meet, and it did not tell me what is happening today. Today, at this moment, a citizen who wanted to see this law applied and therefore wanted to see represented the approach that he wants to give himself together with his family, would find, depending on the town of birth, a different response than another municipality maybe also adjacent. I believe that the Ministry of Health must strive, at the stage of implementation of the measure, to ensure that there is uniformity of behaviour and a will for the application of the law in the municipalities and regions. I would not like the law to be applied according to the color of the municipal administration that must apply it. That would be very serious. It is a law of the State and every municipality has the duty to apply it as it was written by the legislator. I repeat that this is a law shared by the vast majority of MEPs in the last parliamentary term. I would also like to share that it is not possible to sabotage it and that there can be no political colors in its application and in the execution of any sabotages. I therefore ask the Ministry of Health to monitor, not simply to do the task of the decree, but to make sure that the application of the law is actually uniform throughout the national territory and without discrepancies that would penalise the citizens according to the municipality of birth. [[Applause from Senators Bellanova and Rojc.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u8	Following is the question 3-00121 on the reclamation of the plant Rendina Ambiente of Melfi, in the province of Potenza. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u9	Mr President, with reference to the issues raised, on the basis of the elements acquired, it is noted, in advance, that in 2009 the Regional Agency for the Protection of the Environment of Basilicata (ARPAB) informed the Region, the Province and the Municipality of Melfi, the investigation of a contamination of the waters underlying the site of the heat-to-energy plant, starting the procedure related to the subsequent verifications. As a result of this communication, the company responsible initiated the emigration of groundwater downstream of the plant by means of existing monitoring piezometers. The above barrier was subsequently replaced by wells situated upstream of the above-mentioned piezometers and, from time to time, integrated and adapted to the requirements of the relevant Conference of Services. The hydraulic barrier is still active. The Municipality of Melfi by order of 14 March 2009 has ordered the prohibition of the use, for any purpose, of the groundwater water that can be removed from the wells inside the piezometer, in the area of relevance of the heat-to-energy plant and those present downstream of the site. The sources of contamination have been identified in tanks and tanks, pipes of process water and sewage systems. The subject has carried out various interventions, including the restoration of some containment tanks and relining interventions of some sections of the underground networks. MISE's activities continue and are monitored in order to assess their effectiveness pending reclamation. The emungimento activity has gone from the initial 9 piezometric stations to the 46 wells constituting the hydraulic barrier, thanks to the additional expansion required by the Region. All removal activities are monitored through the acquisition of the main hydraulic and chemical-physical parameters of groundwater. The monitoring system records in continuous and real time the parameters necessary to verify the efficiency of the hydraulic barrier. The control of the monitoring system is entrusted to the Arbab and the Province of Potenza that verify its compliance with the requirements of the Conference of Services and the protocol APAT-ISPRA. The latest monitoring data, compared to the characterisation results, confirm the regression of the number of contaminants and the decrease of their concentrations. At the 2011 Conference of Services, the risk analysis document was approved, the objectives of reclamation to be achieved and the six-month deadline for submission of the relevant project were set. Despite the disputes still pending, the Region has taken specific initiatives in the Conferences of services of July and September 2013 to obtain from the subject obliged the approfondimenti necessary to complete the planning of the interventions. It should also be noted that on 20 February 2014 a Convention was signed between the Basilicata Region and ISPRA. With regard to the reclamation project, the same was updated by Fenice Ambiente srl and approved by the Municipality of Melfi with resolution of 2015, following the Conference of decision-making services, which required specific integrations. The first phase ended with the approval of the results of the laboratory testing with junta resolution of April 2017. The second phase, related to the pilot tests in the field, began in June 2017 and includes, in addition to the execution of the interventions, a twelve-month monitoring. The tests are currently in progress and the progress of the activities is reported monthly. The results of the ongoing tests were examined by the Conference of Services held at the Municipality of Melfi on 12 July 2018. At this meeting, criticalities were highlighted regarding the presence of certain pollutants and further investigation was requested to ascertain the origin of toluene found during the monitoring of pilot tests in the field. In this respect, ARPAB has shown that it has carried out, in the period 2016-2018, a total of 506 samplings and is waiting to receive the analytical results of the sampling carried out in March, May and July 2018 in order to proceed to the transmission of the results to the entities concerned. The Agency noted that all data relating to the investigations carried out are published on its institutional website. As regards the aspect relating to the impairment of drinking water, the Region Basilicata has indicated that it has received a communication from Aqueduct Lucano, the current operator of the integrated water service and the drinking water distribution network in the industrial area, according to which the distributed water comes from the water scheme of the Ofanto (Apulian Aqueduct) without interference with local sources; moreover, joint sampling was carried out between the local health company of Potenza and Aqueduct Lucano on 30 July 2018, from which it is evident that there is no impairment of drinking water. Finally, it should be noted that the Ministry of the Environment, in order to acquire useful elements for the assessment of environmental damage, has commissioned ISPRA to verify the status of the sites and to draw up a technical assessment for the identification, description and quantification of the damage. Without prejudice to the health skills of the regions and other agencies in charge, the Ministry reassures that it will keep high the level of attention on the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u12	MOLES (FI-BP). Mr President, I thank the Government, in the person of the Undersecretary, and I am partially satisfied (I will also explain why). The Government's response certifies a fact, namely that we have the certainty of pollution in this area which dates back to 2009, if not before. I am partially satisfied, because in the conclusion of its reply the Ministry ensures a high level of attention. This is what we actually need; this is what we wanted to have as an answer to our question, because I stress with great bitterness that this is a story that has been going on for many years. Many were the solicitations, many were the initiatives of the communities and institutions; many were the reports of the same companies that orbit in that area. The perception - which is not only a perception, but a certainty - is that Basilicata is almost a trash can; and these are not the only cases of environmental pollution, as we know well. No response in these years has come from the agencies in charge and from the Basilicata Region. Why? Perhaps because with this bounce of skills you wanted to cover a number of shortcomings? Perhaps because the Basilicata Region, having no more landfills available, did not know where to take the waste? To conclude, what I ask the Government is to maintain the commitment it has made towards the conclusion of its response, because we can clearly no longer trust and we can no longer believe absolutely reliable, neither credible, the controls, acts and initiatives of the local authorities and of a Basilicata Region that has been ruled irresponsiblely by the center-left. There have been many initiatives that have not been answered. Only recently, thanks to the intervention of the judiciary and the NOE, has an answer been given. I believe that this behaviour is irresponsible; it is an attitude, not only of the institutions, absolutely punishable from a moral and political point of view. Consequently, if it is true that the responsibility is not of this Government, just taken over from the previous one, it is its responsibility to protect a community, such as Lucana and Vulture Melfese, which cannot continue to be treated in this way. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u13	Following is the question 3-00208 on the Valanghe dump in winter in the province of Catania. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u14	Mr President, with regard to the issues raised, on the basis of the evidence acquired, the following is to be seen: this issue must be included in the wider regional context, which has been characterized for years by a continuous emergency assessment, also linked to the insufficient presence of disposal facilities on the regional territory. In the Valanghe winter site there is a landfill, authorised by Decree AIA No 221 of 19 March 2009, for non-dangerous waste, currently in cultivation, the related biogas plant, which entered into operation on 25 February 2016, and a pre-treatment and selection plant, authorised by Decree AIA No 661 of 10 July 2008, currently not operational. Many administrative and judicial measures have taken place since 2014. Among these it is considered useful to mention here the regional measure of 2014 of refusal to renew Decree AIA no. 221 of 2009; the prefectial decree of the same year with which the Oikos commissioner was placed; the judgment of the Administrative Justice Council of Palermo of 2017 that has canceled the aforementioned denial measure and the decision of 2018 of the same Council that has canceled the prefectial measure. As a result of the 2017 judgment, the preparatory procedure for the renewal of the AIA was restarted and special technical tables and service conferences were convened by the relevant regional department. The last service conference was held on 18 September, with the outcome of which ARPA expressed the need to carry out some in-depth studies and reviews. In this regard, it should be noted that, pursuant to paragraph 11 of Article 29 of Legislative Decree No 152 of 2006, until the decision of the competent authority on the review of the AIA, the operator is continuing the activity on the basis of the authorisation in his possession. As regards the emissions of methane and odoriferous substances, the ARPA has planned and implemented a set of technical investigations useful for the realization of an environmental monitoring of the air matrix, aimed at studying the quality status of air and environment within the urban agglomeration of the municipalities concerned, with particular regard to the reports of maleodorances detected by the citizens of Misterbianco and Motta Sant'Anastasia. Limited to the period during which the surveys were carried out, it has emerged that, in certain time slots of the day, in some points of the areas studied can manifest themselves with a certain cyclicality, intensity and variable duration significant modifications of the qualitative and quantitative compositions of the area, accompanied by the contextual perception of unpleasant smells. In particular, in some cases the increase in methane concentration has been evident, even very significant, constantly accompanied by increases in concentration, even if more contained, of some organic compounds responsible for smelly perceptions. The ARPA report concluded that it seems logical to bring back the phenomena recorded to the presence of a diffuse source of various dimensions, but which can identify itself as a complex plant built in landfills and related plants. It seems unnecessary to point out that the situation described here is strongly conditioned by seasonality. Similar surveys and measurements carried out in seasons characterized by different weather conditions can in all probability produce different results. In the light of the considerations set out above, the Region of Sicily, precisely in order to overcome the age-old problem of odour emissions, has ordered that at the Valanghe dump in winter only dry fraction coming from the over-veilling plants. Finally, as regards the desirability of including the health impact assessment (VIS) in the environmental impact assessment of the project of the treatment plant of leachate, while considering what the questioners point out in the interest of public health, it is nevertheless recalled that the health impact assessment is provided for in the current legislation for projects relating to plants other than the one under consideration. In any case, it is reassured that the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, already long aware of the problem in question, is constantly monitoring the evolution of the event and ensures that it will keep high the level of attention on the topic.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u17	DRAGO (M5S). Dear Undersecretary, I am pleased to learn that the Ministry is aware of the problem and is fully aware of the critical situation submitted to your attention. I take note of the fact that the legislation in force to which it referred does not make available to the Ministry the tools to be able to intervene during the administrative procedure of renewal of the AIA, but I am pleased that during the process started at the Conference of Services for the renewal of the aforementioned authorization the authorities responsible for the protection of public health, in the case of the ARP, in confirming the presence of potential factors of environmental risk, have in fact imposed the obligation to arrange further in-depth and verification which could follow, if not the refusal to renew the authorisation, at least the burden on the operator of the landfill to put in place any intervention useful to prevent potential risks to the health of the citizens. As you have also seen in the question I submitted to you, there are studies at the University of Catania which scientifically support what I have said. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u18	Question Time on the agenda is thus over. The sitting will resume at 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 10 a.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u19	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport and the Minister for Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Zaffini has the right to explain the question 3-00291 on the corporate crises that have affected the manufacturers of the Marche-Umbria Quadrilatero, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u20	Mr President, Minister, the Maxilotto 2 of the Marche-Umbria Quadrilatero is a complex task, which involves the construction, under general contracting, of the work of modernization and strengthening of the director Perugia-Ancona, mainly, and the construction of the new headquarters of the Pedemontana delle Marche. Currently, Minister, the works are blocked for the umpteenth financial crisis that systematically affects all the entrusted of the works of Perugia-Ancona, last, in order of time, the Astaldi SpA group, that yesterday was admitted to the procedure of agreement in continuity, sending on the pavement the local enterprises, that they have realized the intense activities with great professionalism, but strictly safeguarding the entrusted ones hit by the umpteenth crisis of liquidity. It should be considered that the contractor of the work is Quadrilatero Marche-Umbria SpA, a subsidiary of ANAS, which owns 92 percent of the work, while the general contractor, initially Dirpa Scarl, then became Dirpa 2 Scarl and that the works along Perugia-Ancona, Minister, were started in 2008, so ten years ago, and were systematically blocked and the end of the same has slipped from year to year. The first entrusted of the works, BTP SpA (Baldassini-Tognozzi-Pontello SpA), was subject to judicial administration and was subsequently admitted to the procedure of prior agreement, concluded in December 2011, with the sale of the branch of company in favor of Enterprise SpA. It is a somewhat boring series of business events, Minister, but that serves to make clear what is happening on that road. This first crisis led to the failure of about 50 local tissue companies. At the beginning of 2013 new criticalities emerged and Impresa SpA was admitted to the extraordinary administration procedure, in this case extended also to the general contractor Dirpa, with further disastrous repercussions on the local companies. Company belonged to the Consorzio Operae, representative of the ATI, company awarded the maxilotto 2. While Dirpa Scarl was in extraordinary administration, she was replaced by the newly-constituted Dirpa 2 Scarl - they don't even change her name, Minister! - as a new contractor general. In 2015, the work, amounting to approximately 500 million, was entrusted to Astaldi, who today, by chance, is in a liquidity crisis. Dirpa 2 is in fact owned, for 99.99 percent, by the Consortium Operae, so the protagonists are always the same, with the famous game of the three cards. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you have to finish. Mr Zaffini (FdI). I am concluding, I come to the question: do you not think, Minister, that by virtue of this historical series of absolutely unequivocal facts, it is necessary to withdraw the custody of the work of maxilotto 2 with the forfeiture of the guarantees to guarantee the balance of all debts accumulated by Astaldi SpA? I am referring to the specific director Perugia-Ancona and not all of Astaldi's debts, of course. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Senator Toninelli, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it should be pointed out that the current general contractor, Dirpa 2, is not the same as the original general contractor Dirpa. In fact, as a result of the two bankruptcy proceedings, the competent judicial and governmental authorities have ordered the supply of branches of the company, the second of which to sub-entry Dirpa 2, in compliance with the relevant legal provisions. As regards the assignment to Astaldi of the intense activities by Dirpa 2, according to the norms of reference, the general contractor can independently entrust the intense activities without any constraint, provided that the enterprises have all the requirements of law. Therefore, in response to the hypothesis of withdrawal of the custody of the works of the maxilotto 2, evidence that the revocation of the custody - rectius the termination in damage of the contract - does not appear at the appropriate time, considering that the contracting company Quadrilatero Marche Umbria and the general contractor are putting in place every action aimed at the prompt resumption of the intense activities in order to complete the aforementioned maxilotto 2. In any case, taking into account the evolution of the overall situation, the contractual resolution assumptions as well as the valuation of the guarantee will be evaluated. This possible discussion would serve as a priority to guarantee the consequent higher cost to be incurred for the completion of the maximum 2, as a new contract of custody should be carried out. In addition, any positive balance resulting from the consideration of the guarantees, once the higher costs are covered, should necessarily fall within the scope of the agreed procedure. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u22	Senator Zaffini has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u23	Minister, until Dirpa 2 enters Astaldi's competitive procedure, resources are free, so you have to hurry to withdraw the damage. Dirpa 2 is not the same company as Dirpa, but is owned by the same property, which is Astaldi. It is a game of the three cards, now absolutely evident, allowed by the client, who is Quadrilatero, a company of purpose. The purpose of the Quadrilatero, 92 percent owned by ANAS, but also by the Chambers of Commerce of Umbria and Marche, was to carry out the work, to do it quickly and to protect local enterprises: it did not achieve any of the three aims. It is a society of purpose that has miserably failed the purpose. She's 92 percent owned by ANAS, so she's part of her ministry. With regard to this, it is not a notary attitude what is needed, Minister, forgive me, but the attitude that decides to break a consolidated practice, which sees the roads paved with failures for too long rather than asphalt. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u24	Senator Astorre has the right to explain the question 3-00293 on the realization of the Third Jupiter Pass, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u25	Mr President, Minister, thank you for being here: we thought you were with the Republic's Public Prosecutor, giving a few complaints about the acts you have or have not approved to the Government. [[Applause from the PD Group. Recalls of the President]] It is a pleasure to see that the respect you have of the Senate is more than filing a complaint with the Republic's Public Prosecutor (but you will have gone this morning or you will go this evening). The question we are asking for the answer and which we have submitted concerns one of the most important infrastructure works, which is the connection of the Third Pass to Genoa. Genoa is a city already tormented by the collapse of the Morandi bridge; Genoa is that reality that sees 2,400 people engaged in the realization of this strategic work, that they have also made a national manifestation and that they see in danger their own job and their own structure. And for what, Mr. President? For a fantastic cost-benefit analysis, given to a mission structure of the Ministry of Transport, when all cost-benefit analyses were done earlier. (Senator Pharaoh displays a sign with the inscription "Toninelli #escidaltunnel.")
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u26	Senator, remove that sign. I call on the assistants to intervene. Now we'll have a cost-benefit analysis... president. Wait a minute, Senator Astorre. We're suspending live television. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Taking advantage of live television, which isn't there right now, isn't a big deal. Please, Senator Astorre.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u27	I remembered to the minister Toninelli the thousands and thousands of people who work in the port of Genoa, that it is one of the most important of Italy, with tens of million goods and millions of container unloaded, for a structure that is inserted in the connection between Genoa and Rotterdam. We have, therefore, Italian and European commitments to comply with. Instead of putting in the decree-law on Genoa an indiscriminate and urban sanatoria for the city of Ischia, which serves to make us ashamed in front of the people - but, you know, between condons and sanatories turned out experts - we need to give Genoa an answer, that we give a response to the Third pass and infrastructure works. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] The development of a country, with its ability to project itself into the future, needs not to go after the easy electoral consensus, also because often one takes back the word. I am thinking of the question No TAP: an election campaign has been held in Puglia and so many votes have been taken and now we decide to move on. Ride all nos you can get votes; but building infrastructure to improve the quality of life of the country means ruling this country. We ask you, then, to be precise in the answers. Do not do as usual: do not be fugitive or evasive, because the answers that the country is waiting for in terms of infrastructure and development are fundamental. Stop going back and forth from the Republic Attorney and give answers to the country, waiting for you to rule. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u28	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Senator Toninelli, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u29	Colleagues, first of all, I have to say that these works are so fundamental that you started them in 1992 and have not yet been able to finish them. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Protests from the PD Group]] Twenty-six years to complete a work and ask a government installed for four months to complete it seems comparable to a joke. MARGIOTTA (PD). Stop it, you're in the government now, not the opposition! Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. Having said that, President, the Third Jupiter Pass is a work that derives from a convention signed in 1992 between the current RFI and the COCIV consortium, which, over more than a quarter of a century, has seen a series of vicissitudes, even of a judicial nature, that have highlighted the numerous criticalities. It is one of the largest public works financed by the State, for which I remember that a judicial inquiry was opened - we also lacked this - which, only last June, a few days after my installation, closed with over 36 suspects, some of whom were prominent representatives of the institutions. If when the work was conceived we had been to the government, and the only regret I have is that the 5 Star Movimento was not in the government before you made these disasters... [[Comments and protests from the PD Group]] MALPEZZI (PD). The League was there! FARAONE (PD). Buffoon! You're a clown! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you call the Minister to hear an answer, Listen to her. [[Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] Senator, please. You're welcome, Minister. , Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. I was saying that if the 5 Star Movimento had been to the government, the work would never have been carried out in this way. The evaluation that the Ministry is carrying out does not aim to stop the work, but to judge its overall convenience for citizens. As I have always said, on the works that are at an advanced stage of implementation, the evaluation of the cost-benefit analysis cannot fail to take into account all the regulatory constraints, the state of progress of the work and all the interests involved, including those of employment, to which we have always paid the greatest attention. Therefore, I can confirm once again to the questioning colleagues that, pending the results of the evaluations, which are now on the way to completion, there is no direct link with the delivery of the fifth lot, as evidenced by the agreement between RFI and the general contractor, which has given continuity to the ongoing yards, as the colleagues of the Democratic Party have said in recent weeks, taken from many newspapers. [[Senator Pharaoh's comments.]] Again in response to the question, I repeat once again that the assessment, since it will take account of the existing constraints, will certainly consider the burden on the public budget in the event of the suspension of infrastructure works, whatever the cause of these burdens and that these aspects, as well as the other subjects of analysis, will be made public - unlike the past - before the Government assumes its determinations in this regard. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u30	Senator Pinotti has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u31	Minister Toninelli, the Third Pass is a strategic infrastructure for Italy and essential for the future of Genoa, especially and even more today, after the collapse of the Morandi bridge. The political movement to which you belong, the 5 Star Movement, has always shown adversity towards the work. The last episode dates back to last Tuesday, when, in the Regional Council, the Movimento 5 Stars prevented the voting of an agenda that asked, unanimously of the other parties, to be able to proceed with the Third Pass. I understand the positions of the Movimento; you always look back, but you see, now you are Minister of the Republic, you have a responsibility that goes beyond propaganda. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Stop hiding behind ambiguity, because it is useless for you to read me again that CIPE approved the fifth tranche and funding: we know that. But the political message that you have given - "The work must be put under control" - is in fact preventing certain funding and we are talking about 2,400 people who do not know if they will be able to continue working. [[Applause from the PD Group]] She says she works a lot, her wife is worried, she sleeps little: we are sorry, but know that the rest she takes away also, for example, those Abruzzo citizens who do not know if that bridge between the A24 and the A25 is safe or not. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You can't run the alarm through the press about these problems: close it, if it's risky, and don't talk like that. And it also takes away the rest of those workers and those families who are manifesting not because they are stirred up by someone, but because they are concerned about their job. I conclude my reply with a phrase that shouted a worker, one of those who risk the place, in the Ligurian Regional Council to his party colleagues, of the Movimento 5 Stars: I want work, not citizenship income. That's what the Italians want. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u32	Senator Biasotti has the power to illustrate the question 3-00292 on the emergency relative to the infrastructural works in Genoa, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u33	Minister, I would like to be able to offer you my solidarity with all the insults, criticisms and insults you have received since the collapse of the Morandi Bridge. This is because you are a very important minister to me: the Minister of Infrastructure, be it clear, not the Minister of Non-Infrastructure. I believe that infrastructure, tourism and Made in Italy are the three sectors that can really take Italy out of this economic crisis. And then I'm sorry that the oppositions called you a liar, when you came to inaugurate the Boat Show saying that the decree-law was ready and that it would be published in a few hours and then it was forty days and when you said that the decree-law would provide aid for all companies and families there weren't. I'm sorry they called you incompetent, someone even worse, when you proposed to build a livable and pedestrian bridge instead of Morandi. I'm sorry when they said Shame because you posted a smiling picture, with your wife, two days after the accident, or when you posted - or posted - another photo with Vespa with the bridge, laughing at the collapse of the bridge. Then I leave out all the insults that you received from the comedians: by now you have become the symbol of the satire of Gene Gnocchi, of Bizzarri, of Crozza. Even his face turns to the sites as a symbol that means: shooting crap (the word is another but we understand each other). [[Applause and laughter from the PD Group]] LUPE (M5S). But you're interrogating? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Biasotti, the question. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] I would advise you to look into it. If you had deepened the issues on which you then make statements, you would not have said that you want a livable and pedestrian bridge, because it is a 50 meters motorway bridge on the Polcevera, which overflows a year yes and the other also, it is neither livable, neither transitable, nor pedestrian. If you had studied it would know that the Grunda is not a piece of roof where rain water goes, it is a fundamental work that the city has been waiting for for twenty years. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] Because the city was already blocked before the bridge collapse, let alone now! If you had examined it further, you would not have appointed five Commissioners to verify the reasons for the collapse and then fired them after three minutes because they were incompatible or incompetent. If you had in-depth, you wouldn't have declared that you were withdrawing the concession to Autostrade, on the whole highway line, because you couldn't, so much as you couldn't do it, you only revoked the concession for a little bit, creating huge problems for us, because Autostrade could make the bridge in eight months. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] Do it later, revoke it and criticize it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u34	Conclude, Senator Biasotti.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u35	BIASOTTI (FI-BP). I ask you, Minister, let's forget the controversy, put your head on the files. Let us do this blessed Grunda, which costs zero for the state coffers, zero! It pays all Motorways, which already collects the increase of the tolls from 1 July - I hope you know - so it is paid. Let us make the third pass, let us make the dam of the port of Genoa, Minister. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u36	I address a greeting, on behalf of the House, to students and teachers of the College of the Holy Family in Turin, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u37	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Senator Toninelli, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u38	Mr President, to be criticized by members of the Democratic Party and of Forza Italia, who with their governments have stolen the future from those boys sitting in the gallery, ruining this country, fills me with great pride. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Lively protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u39	Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u40	Mr Verducci (PD). Shame! You're a minister! Shame on you! (The Senators Pharaoh and Malpezzi re-expose the sign with the inscription "Toninelliescidaltunnel.")
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u41	Senator Pharaoh and Senator Malpezzi, I formally call you to order! Let the Minister finish. [[Comments of the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u42	Mr President, I fully understand nervousness. (Senator Verducci descends into the hemicycle). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Verducci, return to your place! [[Comments of Senator Verducci]] Minister, I repeat: answer the question submitted to you by Senator Biasotti. , Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. Thank you very much for your invitation, Mr President. It is a pity that you have not asked any questions. Resignation! Resign! Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. However, I repeat that I respond with great serenity, understanding the state of nervousness, if not panic, of those who have managed this country in the last five years in a disastrous way to say the least. I turn to those boys: these gentlemen gave the public thing to state takers. Their criticism must be a source of pride! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] MALPEZZI (PD). You have to answer the question! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malpezzi, would you like to sit down? You do not have the exclusivity of the debate in this House. Sit down! I already called you back once. Don't make me do it again. MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, ask him to answer the question! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Sit down. Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. Mr President, since I think of Genoa and the Genoese and I do not think of defending an indefensible past, let us go to the answer. MALAN (FI-BP). You have to do, don't think. Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. Of course, if I thought like her, look, I'd have a hard time finding solutions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The tragedy that struck the national community on August 14 could and had to be avoided. Forty-three people have lost their lives and there have been disastrous repercussions for the city of Genoa, for its citizens and, more generally, for the whole country, given the strategic importance of the Genoese industrial and commercial pole. The Government has intervened very quickly and with a massive deployment of human and material resources and resources and all the institutions, together, have put forth their efforts to immediately mitigate the hardships of the affected populations and to provide for the most pressing needs in the medium term. [[Comments of Senator Pharaoh]] In fact, besides the first emergency measures arranged by the commissioner of the Government already in the hours immediately following the collapse of the bridge, in the decree-law currently under examination of the Parliament have been introduced fiscal measures in support of the displaced and the damaged enterprises, financial measures for the local public transport in favor of the Liguria Region, resources destined to the port of Genoa for the optimization of the logistic flows and for the institution of a simplified logistic zone, that is added to the creation of an urban free zone finalized to give support to the companies. I would add that economic compensation has been provided for drivers for the additional costs incurred by them. As for the 260 displaced families, the Government has, in the first phase of the emergency, assigned a new home to one hundred families and allocated to the remaining 160 an autonomous housing contribution, ranging from 600 to 900 euros depending on the family composition. In addition, with a government amendment approved in the Commission last Tuesday in the House, provision has been made for the payment of EUR 2,025.50 per square metre for each property concerned, plus the special allowances, amounting to EUR 45,000, and the allowance for the sudden removal of EUR 36,000. I would like to say to my colleagues in the Democratic Party that the term 'and', which is to be changed by fearing for those 45,000 euros plus 36,000 euros, has a greater value than the term 'in addition'; So don't worry: these voices are all there! But I can understand that grammar for some is complicated! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] In these hours during the conversion of the decree-law further measures will be added to support workers' income. I refer in particular to the rule providing for an allowance equal to the maximum treatment of the wage integration fund in favour of private sector workers, including agricultural workers, who are unable and penalised to work in full or in part following the collapse of the Morandi bridge. The measures will also cover co-ordinated and continuous employees, agency and commercial representatives, self-employed workers, including business and professional workers, who will receive a one-off allowance of EUR 15,000. With regard to companies operating in the so-called red zone, specific measures such as an allowance of EUR 1,300 per square metre for covered areas and EUR 325 per square metre for uncovered areas will be recognised in their favour. A further compensatory measure will also be provided to restore businesses from the loss of business equipment and materials and to refuse the costs incurred for the recovery of equipment and for the transfer to another area of the Metropolitan City of Genoa. We are facing a difficult challenge, but let us move forward with determination so that a community affected by the heart can return to normal as soon as possible and draw, indeed, from this tragedy... [[Comments of Senator Bellanova]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u43	Senator, change the position, but not the attitude, like my colleague Pharaoh.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u44	[[Laughter from the PD Group]] Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. ...the opportunity for an overall revival. To those who laugh, I would like to remind you that we are talking about Genoa and the forty-three victims. So much for the respect of the victims' families! [[Comments from the PD Group. Protests of Senator Malpezzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u45	Senator Malpezzi, stop! Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. Coming to the realization of the various infrastructural works insistent on the Liguria territory and, in particular, the railway line Third pass of Giovi and the new Gronda of Genoa, are in existence the evaluations of the experts, conducted according to the methodology and the criteria expressed in the guidelines for the evaluation of the public works emanated from the MIT with decree of June 2017. In this regard, I want to ensure that the analysis of the Third Pass will be completed by this month, while the analysis of the Gronda di Genova, which would have seen its work start in the first months of 2019, will come to a definition by December.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u46	[[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u47	Senator Biasotti has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u48	Minister, I have the impression that you, besides not understanding, may not listen. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] In my speech I recalled that the first laughing - and that is why we should be ashamed - was you. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] Having said that, let us go into the matter: I asked three questions and you answered a whole other question. Perhaps it is true that there is the hand of some executive who gives her other papers. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] I asked her: if she makes the Third pass, and it seems to me that a part of the answer has given it; if she does the Grunda, but there has been no answer and, above all, if she makes the new dam for the port of Genoa. I would like to remind you, Minister, that the port of Genoa and the oil port of Genoa give to the State, in addition to being a very heavy servitude for our city because the oil port is in the heart of the city and we are terrified of it, 6 billion revenues. The port of Rotterdam or Antwerp recovers 51 percent of these 6 billion; the port of Barcelona and Marseille 40%. So in Genoa, it would be, in the norm, between 2 and 3 billion. You predicted 50 million: 2 billion versus 50 million. You are the Minister of Infrastructure, you are not the Minister of Tourism who is next to you. Infrastructure has to be done! [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] I remind you that you said you wouldn't make the third pass. The port of Genoa must be connected with the rest of the world with the railway and the railway from Genoa has a slope of 12 percent, they cannot transit neither trains of 700 meters, nor 500 meters. If you do not want to make the Third pass, we close the port of Genoa and make a nice marina. Say it. I accept any, enough that we know that the port of Genoa has absolute necessity of the Third pass. Not because we want it, or because the COCIV wants it, or because they have stolen, but because the port of Genoa is at the sea and to get to Lombardy you have to pass the Apennines. Stop studying, Minister. Study! [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u49	Senator Castaldi has the right to explain the question 3-00289 on the timing of the expenditure for the safety of the A24 and A25 motorway sections, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u50	Mr President, I will try to simplify a question full of acronyms, perhaps not understandable to all citizens. Minister, you in the Genoa decree provide for a series of measures aimed at dealing with emerging situations. Already the term "emergential" says a lot, because it makes us understand how this Government, through its Dicastery, must cover years and years of total neglect and total disinterest. In the specific technical, to paragraph 2 of article 16 it is previewed a temporal remodulation of the authorization of expense arranged in favor of the concessionary society Strada parks SpA, in order to allow the immediate execution of the participations of restoration and safety on the A24 and A25 highways, that they have become necessary in consequence of the seismic events that depart from L'Aquila in 2009 and then interest the Italy Center in 2016-2017. We are in 2018 and the indifference to these issues I believe is evident to everyone. So you, in practice, and above all quickly, lightning I would say, since you've only been at the Dicastery for a few months, remodelled the authorisation of expenditure of the 2014-2020 Development and Cohesion Fund and concentrated it in the 2018-2019 biennium, and increased it by 50 million euros for all the years ranging from 2021 to 2025. In article 16, again to paragraph 2, letter d), she previews that the CIPE to provide the consequent remodulation to reliant on the assignments for participations already programmed in the within of the pacts of development undersigned with the Abruzzo Region and the Lazio Region (delibere CIPE 26 and 56 of 2016). I have observed that, according to press news coming mainly from the Abruzzo Region and from the communicative channels of some representatives of the oppositions, there would be uncertainty about the impact that this forecast would have concretely on the design and realization of interventions already included in the development pacts signed by Abruzzo and Lazio. Together with my fellow signatories and on behalf of the citizens of Abruzzo and Lazio, who are concerned, I ask you what are the indications that you, Minister, give us about the remodulation of expenditure, and above all what are the possible consequences of such remodulations on the design and implementation of interventions already included in the development pacts signed by the Abruzzo Region and the Lazio Region. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u51	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Senator Toninelli, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u52	Mr President, the issue of the concessions of the A24 and A25 motorway sections is one of the worst issues that my Ministry has received from previous governments, those of the so-called policy experts, the good ones, who are today also criticising in this House. [[Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] I remember once again that the Park Road company has not signed a new financial economic plan since 2013. I installed myself on June 2, 2018: you calculate who was there before, between 2013 and 2018. This means that, for the past legislature as a whole, my predecessors - the good ones - have not solved a situation that has exposed citizens to objectively unsustainable tariffs and works to serious degradation. What did they do? Nothing. They made a concession go on for five years, as it was before, without renewing it, and therefore without allowing safe interventions for our road users. For this reason, I have arranged an extraordinary verification of the state of the structure of the highways by the competent territorial inspection office, which concluded that the residual decay found, associated with the increase of the operating loads regarding the time of construction, is such that it cannot demonstrate the achievement of adequate safety standards with the regular transit of circulation. And who has discovered that this structure was to be cared for, those "good" before or the new Government? Sounds like the new government to me. Even before this verification, several times in recent months the Ministry had signaled to the concessionaire and the other authorities the urgency to take any necessary measures to ensure the safety of the infrastructures and the highway users, from the modulation of the traffic until the closing of the sections. We have specified it today, as a result of this last verification, in a formal communication that indicates the specific obligations at the expense of the concessionaire. We sent him a directive, where the Ministry goes back to being the Ministry and the State goes back to being the State, in which we tell the dealer that he has to secure that infrastructure, which, of course, has never been done before. The press that accuses me of having created alarm without intervening is in fact covering the responsibility of the dealers, because it should know that the obligation to limit the traffic - that maybe someone of the PD or of Forza Italia forgets to read and study - for safety reasons weighs on the dealer, as provided by the code of the road. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] Moreover, I have not limited myself to the direct and personal verification on the infrastructures, but I have intervened with the anticipation from 2021 to 2018 and therefore with the immediate use of the 192 million euros previewed for the safety of the viaducts of the A24 and the A25. The urgency of this intervention should have led the ministers who preceded me, as well as the President of the Abruzzo Region, to intervene by any means, well before my installation. In this context, while the President left the Abruzzo Region for months in a situation of grave uncertainty, preferring an armchair to the Senate, instead of running the government mandate, my Ministry found the resources. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u53	Minister Toninelli, avoid these references that have nothing to do with the subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u54	It's weird that facts make you so angry. MALPEZZI (PD). President, you are disrespecting Parliament! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malpezzi, I'll do the president, so sit down. Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. He did so using the European funds for development and cohesion 2014-2020, without snatching - as someone said - any resource destined to carry out projects in Abruzzo, as reported by the press and by numerous representatives of the other parties, who decided to inaugurate the electoral campaign with this totally pretentious controversy. In order to enable these interventions to be carried out immediately, reference was made to the FSC resources related to territorial pacts able to guarantee an adequate availability for the emergency of the viaducts compared to the annual assigned to the MIT operational plan. However, the resources of the Territorial Pact for Abruzzo would have been immediately reinstated (unlike some have said) thanks to the remodulation, through the CIPE, of the MIT operational plan. As if that were not enough, we went further together with the Ministry for the South: with the Government's opinion on the amendment of the speakers 16.1, it will be done to reformulate article 16, paragraph 2, letter b), of Decree-Law 109, providing for coverage within the non-committed resources of the Development and Cohesion Fund. There's money. We have made this further change in order to eliminate some necessary bureaucratic steps in the case of a remodulation of resources already committed by the FSC: this has ensured a considerable saving of time to start work to secure this important infrastructure as soon as possible. I repeat: this intervention is not intended to return money that would never - I repeat, never - have been removed but only and only to speed up further the start of the work. Therefore, we really hope that those who have so far made instrumental controversy vote in favour of the rule that protects all those who are using this fundamental infrastructure. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u55	I give the floor to Senator Castaldi to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u56	Mr President, I would like to say to the Minister that I am not only satisfied, my eyes are also glowing. I have been here for five years to oppose and this speed and efficiency have never been found. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Ironic Comments from the PD Group]] It was a technical question, not a meeting, as was the case with previous questions. At this point I want to take off some pebbles too.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u57	Senator Castaldi, please avoid.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u58	CASTALDI (M5S). I will do so with the respect I have always had in this House and you know it. The Abruzzo PD will definitely continue to use the press or local sites. They have local sites, you know? They call them information sites, but they are run by politicians or their mayors (it's amazing what happens). You have restored two great truths today: the first is that, contrary to what has been said, even with a press conference to which they have called mayors who have bowed to this scene, you tell us today that this is false and, above all, that nothing has been done to the mayors of Lazio and Abruzzo. The second great truth is that - I say it with pride - after almost ten years of absolute nothing - I repeat, ten years - from the earthquake of L'Aquila and the successive earthquakes (the less known and small ones, until the earthquakes of 2016 and 2017, unfortunately known to all) in which we have undergone regional governments of center-right and center-left, she does a quick and lightning action and starts the safety of the A24 and the A25. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Therefore tell local journalists that this was the news to be published in cubital characters on the Center and on the various local newspapers. This was the news to be published: the safety starts, and I thank you for that. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I do not know whether these politicians have a feeling of shame, but at least I urge them to remain silent. [[Comments of Senator Ginetti.]] Actually, I invite them to shut up. I also find myself in conflict of interest, Minister, because I go on those roads every week, as well as some members, fortunately less and less, of the opposition and every day risk. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Thank you for that. [[Comments of Senator Ginetti]] They were afraid to vote, they knew that the President would be elected because the electoral law made them. Today we cannot yet vote in Abruzzo, but you will see that there will be another 4 March in February. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u59	Senator Vallardi has the right to explain the question 3-0290 on the uncontrolled proliferation of Asian bugs against crops in the North-East for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u60	Mr President, it is certainly the crops of the North-East, the North-West and the whole of Upper Italy. Minister, the problem we are talking about is very serious. The fruit and vegetable sector - in particular that of Northern Italy - is struck by an emergency due to the invasion, which - to be seen - can easily be described as biblical, of the halyomorpha halys, a slightly particular name that indicates the so-called Asian marbled bug. This insect, coming from China, Japan, Taiwan and Korea, is particularly infesting and, having no effective natural antagonists, it proliferates quietly, creating serious damage to agriculture. Like other parasites called aliens, appeared in Italy in recent years, the Asian bug spreads through human activities, i.e. transport, import of plant products and tourism. It is a polyphagus insect - it is omnivorous, eats everything - and therefore can move from one culture to another quietly. In addition, it has a high capacity to adapt to the environment and expands from one territory to another. In fact, in Italy it first settled in Emilia-Romagna and, to date, it is extended up to Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Veneto and Piemonte. Strong signs have also come in Tuscany and Lazio (in Rome these insects have been rooted in several houses in recent months, especially on the outskirts). Because of this invasion, the cultivations of all the fruits and, in particular, pears and kiwis, representing for our country top crops in the fruit market at European and global level, and of which we are excellent exporters, are at risk. The tools used so far to curb their expansion consist in the use of plant protection products, which however have a limited effect, and to have sufficient control it is necessary to intervene constantly with obvious consequences, or in the use of anti-insect covers, that is, anti-huge nets. Minister, the question is whether it is possible to use a natural antagonist for contrast. It seems that the best solution for biological control is in fact the one that has been discovered by the researchers of the CREA, who have identified, within the framework of the national project Aspropi, in an hymenopteran - the ooencyrtus telenomicida - a natural antagonist of the Asian bug. In fact, this hymenopteran has proved, in a controlled environment (i.e. in the laboratory), to be able to parasitize the eggs of the bug, preventing its proliferation. If it were demonstrated the ability of this hymenopteran to effectively combat the Asian bug, this would represent a hope for thousands and thousands of farmers throughout Italy (at this point, the problem is not only of the North or the Northeast, but of the whole country), where the crops have been severely damaged. Minister, I therefore ask you to know whether the Ministry is aware of the facts and what initiatives it considers appropriate to take to eradicate this scourge which is afflicting the agricultural world and also at what point are the researches of the CREA on the effectiveness of telenomic ooencyrtus as a natural antagonist to be used to counter the spread of the Asian bug. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u61	The Minister for Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism, Senator Centinaio, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u62	Mr President, the marbled bug - an insect from East Asia first found in Europe since 2004, the presence of which is currently also established in the North American continent - has a high polyphagia, so much so that there are more than 100 plant guests. The insect - which causes damage to various orchards and herbaceous crops - although it has demonstrated a high capacity for spreading in the Mediterranean and in the European area, has not been included among the pests for quarantine for the Union, as its rapid distribution over a large geographical area has prevented any timely eradication. In the context of measures to combat the parasite - which include dedicated measures to combat, based on integrated intervention strategies - targeted monitoring on individual farms and on different crops is essential and it is important to remember that success is not ensured by the exclusive use of chemical treatments, given the high mobility of the species, which can reposition on different crops. In the National Plant Health Committee, priority actions have been identified to combat the damage of the parasite, which consist of dedicated activities of dissemination and monitoring by the plant protection services of the regions affected by the problem, in collaboration with the territorial technical structures, to support farmers in the fight against insects. In particular, the CREA has been identified as a support institution for the deepening of scientific aspects and, at the same time, trials with field and laboratory trials have been initiated to identify the most suitable substances for contrast (in this sense, the relevant authorisations have been obtained). With specific reference to biological control for the defense of national fruit cultivation - as requested by the Senator - dedicated studies have been started to put in place interventions with natural antagonists of the parasite. In particular, the research carried out within the national project called Aspropi has allowed to identify in environments of central Italy a parasite hymenopter of the eggs of the bug, bred in biofabrics on alternative guests. A population of the parasitoid has been transferred to the laboratories of the CREA and maintained in a controlled environment, where it has been shown to effectively parasitize the eggs of the bug. For the verification in the field of the potentiality of the natural antagonist - usable in an integrated context for the defense of national fruit-growing - direct tests have been carried out in orchards conducted with different methodologies: in the productive orchards - in which it is necessary to control other adversities - the antagonist has shown limits of effectiveness and permanence in the environments. For the use of natural antagonists from the territory of origin of the parasite, instead, in extensive tests in the field aimed at assessing the effectiveness and the best methods of use, it will first be necessary to solve the problems related to the prohibition of introducing in nature non-native species or populations, in order to avoid the same problem. In this regard, taking into account the importance of carrying out timely verification of the potential and risks associated with the introduction of natural antagonists from the area of origin of the Asian bug - after obtaining the necessary legal certifications - this Ministry has already authorised the CREA to introduce, under quarantine conditions and for study purposes only, the most effective species worldwide, called samurai wasp, on which the necessary studies are being carried out, in particular on the environmental impact in our agrosystems. At the same time, within the framework of the projects financed by this Ministry, the CREA is continuing its research on all the natural antagonists of the bug active in the national territory, which are beginning to use it as a victim. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u63	Senator Vallardi has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u64	Minister, thank you for the commitment of the Ministry of Agriculture, yours and all the collaborators. Indeed, we are anxious - I say this also on behalf of the farmers of this country - to wait for the results of the work of this samurai wasp: since we import it from China, if it works, it will be the first Chinese product to really work in our country; so we look forward to it. [[Applause and laughter from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Thank you because agriculture at the moment certainly needs attention and the solutions provided by the action of its Ministry. Thanks to the reclamation consortia, because from the point of view of irrigation over 300 million have just arrived; thank you to the many producers who at this moment see strengthened your work on Made in Italy, something that agriculture certainly needs at this time for the more than 90 billion of damage caused by Italian soiling and counterfeiting, a phenomenon to which you are working to fight it even more effectively. Thank you also all those consumers who at this moment are protected by the strengthening of control, which is certainly done more than in the past, on all those counterfeit products that arrived - and today do not arrive anymore - in our ports and that then ended up on the table of the Italians. Returning, in conclusion, to the bug, it is a phenomenon that has not arrived at all now, it has been present for several years in this country and it is certainly not the fault of politics if it has arrived, but it is definitely the fault of the previous Government if we are in this situation today. Perhaps, if the attention that you, Minister, are putting on this issue at this time was put a few years ago, we would not be in this situation today. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u65	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I greet and thank the Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u68	FADELI (PD). Mr President, you know that I have always recognised you, as so many people in this House and also in previous legislation, as your President and your balance. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator. Minister Toninelli! FADELI (PD). Minister Toninelli does what he thinks he does. However, I tell you that today I was impressed by the way you presided. Unlike so many years in which your balance has always been demonstrated, you have legitimately stopped the protest of the Democratic Party Group, which has expressed itself in forms often not consonant with this House, but has not stopped - in this I want to stigmatize your presidency today - Mr Toninelli when he addressed a part of this House. offending her [[Applause from the PD Group]] and when you have used instrumentally - what has ever happened in this House, you know - the presence of the girls and boys who were attending the sitting against a part of this House. [[Applause from the PD Group]] WOMAN (M5S). He responded to your offense! FADELI (PD). You know that you are always answering questions on the subject. That is why I felt it necessary to stress this today, because it had never happened before and I hope, Mr President, that it will never happen again. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u69	Senator Fedeli, Minister Toninelli has been recalled by the undersigned. I didn't hear any offense about anyone. I think of the saying: "Who sows wind reaps storm" [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] , because the words that have been spoken by those who sit behind him (this time I am not talking about Senator Malpezzi) have been absolutely offensive, to the point that it has been reported to the Minister six times the term "buffoon". I heard about it later, because otherwise this person would no longer be in the Chamber. FADELI (PD). But I did recognize him. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, this is not a debate between us.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u72	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, thank you, but it makes it easier for me to hold Mr Toninelli in the Chamber, because my speech makes sense only in the presence of the Minister. I thank you for allowing me to speak, but I do not want to speak before the Minister, who made himself a ghost, because I refer to the words that the Minister used, even quoting my person and function. This would place it as a moral duty for him to stay here to listen to what completes his point of view and what puts his point of view in difficulty. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The Minister, deliberately asked ad hoc on the point, pointed out that, with regard to the motorway routes A24 and A25, in the last six years the competent Ministry - therefore the previous Government - and the Abruzzo Region would have done nothing. However, this can only be said by those who are completely on the fast track of reading documents, of frequenting dossiers and of competence on the point. In the last six years all the ordinary interventions have been made that belong to the concession manager and anti-scaleling works for 150 million euros, made possible by the vigilant Ministry. I hope that technology, as well as the services of this House, will facilitate the understanding of what I am saying and I will tell the Minister, because the Minister needs it. The fact that he needs it is testified by the question that he himself has contributed to the birth of these days, coming to declare that, on the basis of his visual inspection, the highway infrastructure of Abruzzo would be dangerous. The Minister went physically to a pylon and, after observing, declared, without any professional involvement of the Ministry, that that pylon is dangerous and must be closed. As far as the Ministries are concerned, I have always known that an account is the Minister, an account is the Ministry and that, when the Ministry enters the field, it does so with its professional involvement, of téchne; only the Ministry, with its Directorate-General for Surveillance, can acclaim the impossibility of a motorway exercise and not the emotions of a Minister who has obvious political interests of part, as has emerged before. I want to say with absolute clarity that the Minister has engaged, subtracting them from the Abruzzo Region, 200 million euros of the regional plan, of the pact referred to Abruzzo, that it is covered from 753 million euros. With article 16 of the decree-law for the city of Genoa has removed 200 million euros in order to realize works of national and state responsibility, on a national and state highway, burdening however on the financial coverage of the Region. This is the anomaly that, on the one hand, we are suffering, even if we are assured at every stage that those resources will be restored by budgetary law. On the other hand, the most serious and incompetent thing the Minister has done has been to produce a remarkable disorientation among the whole population of Abruzzo that uses those infrastructures: every month there are about 2 million passages on that infrastructure. And so, while you hear a minister declare that the infrastructure is dangerous, that minister then does not act, neither consistently on the side of danger, nor giving rise to the immediacy of the procedures to do the work, because you are waiting for the last technical authorization to activate the yards. On this I would have liked to hear the Minister, not as in some kind of venture company where one interrogates and the other answers. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator, finish your speech. I already gave her an extra minute. D'ALFONSO (PD). Thank you, President. I hope that you will convey this to the Minister and that the Minister will have time to concentrate on this. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u73	Senator, all your words will remain in the Senate and will therefore be consulted by the Minister and others.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u74	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-49.ana.u75	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 23 October, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 15.58 p.m.
