ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:38 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 25 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u3	On 2 November 2018, the following draft law was transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport: Conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law no. 109 of 28 September 2018, with urgent provisions for the city of Genoa, the security of the national network of infrastructures and transport, the seismic events of 2016 and 2017, the work and other emergencies of the city of Genoa (909).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u4	I inform you that the President of the Senate and the President of the Chamber of Deputies have appointed members of the following bicameral committees: Parliamentary committee of inquiry into the phenomenon of mafias and other criminal associations, including foreign ones; Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle and related environmental offences; Parliamentary Monitoring Committee on the Schengen Agreement, supervision of Europol's activities, monitoring and surveillance in the field of immigration; Parliamentary commission for the implementation of fiscal federalism; Parliamentary Committee on Childhood and Adolescence. The list of members of these committees will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u5	I communicate that on 25 October 2018 the members of the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights were appointed, as referred to in the motion approved by the Senate Assembly on 10 July 2018. The list is annexed to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u6	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, it is with deep emotion that, on behalf of the Senate, I wish to express my condolences and closeness to those who have lost loved ones because of bad weather. Italy as a whole has been scourged and has demonstrated its fragility, but at the same time it has demonstrated the courage, commitment and solidarity that Forces of Order, Fire Departments, Civil Protection, volunteers, institutions and citizens have all known with readiness, dedication and sacrifice immediately lend in relief. The same determination must now be directed towards the recovery and restoration of a situation of normality that can guarantee the life and recovery of daily activities for our citizens. In remembrance of the victims, I call on the House to respect a moment of silence and recollection. [[The President and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u10	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party expresses its closeness to the families of the victims and to the territories that have been affected by real tragedies these days. We also express closeness to the local administrators who - as you said - are finding themselves having to cope with situations for which they are often not at all responsible, because they pay for choices that they may not have made. It is clear that in these days Italy is crying, but tears cannot be the answer even at the moment of mourning and pain. We, Mr President, are legislators and so, in addition to regretting and expressing our closeness, we make laws to prevent the disasters we have seen in recent days and to ensure that there can be measures to intervene as efficiently as possible, so that what we have experienced does not happen again. Mr President, in the days of pain we are certainly not the ones who want to look for polemics. However, we are convinced that we are all in this House, regardless of political membership, eager to bring home facts. Words are not enough in the face of suffering: action must be taken home. The facts that we are asking - and that we must ask the government for - are very simple and are numerical. We call for resources in the budget law to combat the hydrogeological disaster and to secure the territory of our country. We want to see a "more" sign on this issue and we want to see those measures. Mr President, we are strongly asking for this in these days when the issue is hot: we cannot allow the legislators to provide, within the decree-laws or the acts that this branch of Parliament will face, for measures or rules to be taken to ensure that they are carried out. Mr President, we therefore call for them to be eliminated, because we are dying of pardons in this country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u13	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, I too, on behalf of the Fratelli d'Italia Group, am speaking about the dramatic events that have unfortunately affected the whole country, from the extreme region of Trentino-Alto Adige to Sicily. These events obviously require respect and reflection. First of all, I would like to express, of course, the condolences of our Group, the Brothers of Italy, for the victims and the solidarity with the citizens involved in the damage, who have often deprived them of their homes, their places of work and - as has already been said - unfortunately also their affections. I believe that, in this passage, it is necessary for a Parliamentary Assembly, by people who are dedicated to law-making, to try to prevent such events from continuing, with ever greater damage, also because of man's fault. While it is true that climate phenomena do not depend on us, the damage they cause is often the result of lack of maintenance, lack of action and lack of environmental policies. Therefore, the Brothers of Italy Group asks the Government - and is ready to give its cooperation and support - to adopt a bad weather decree, which can intervene immediately to try to buffer and resolve at least the emergencies that are afflicting our territories. Of course this is not enough, because - as I said - we need structural policies to protect the environment, to secure the territories and to clean up the riverbeds. These are interventions that are very well known, but unfortunately, sadly, one forgets a few hours after the events that happen now periodically. We therefore ask the Government to immediately find the resources for a structural plan and, since we are in the phase of examining the budget law and the so-called tax decrees, let me suggest to colleagues, especially those of the Movimento 5 Stars, to consider the 10 billion euros that are destined for assistance, to engage them in the works of redevelopment of the territory and environmental protection. We give work to our young people to defend our territory, to defend our homes, our companies and the lives of our loved ones. It is an appeal that I would like to see this House united across the board, in the parliamentary part and in the part of the Government. In conclusion, I remember what happened in my Province, the Autonomous Province of Trento, which, despite its small size, made a negative contribution in terms of victims: we had two victims, a father and a mother, who failed for these events. We have also suffered irreparable damage to the environmental system, with 300 hectares of forest deleted only in part of the territory of Trentino, Val di Fiemme, which produces, among other things, spruce, a material of primary importance for the production of musical instruments. It will take over a hundred years to repair the damage caused. As I begin to conclude, I would like to remind you that Trentino has managed to limit the damage thanks to a Civil Protection centred on volunteer fire brigades. In our territory each valley and every country have the good fortune to enjoy the support of the volunteer firemen who, as soon as critical issues emerge, guard the territory and help the populations. The appeal I make to the whole system of Italy is to look at the civil protection of Trentino and the volunteer firemen - I remember that they are almost 2% of the population of Trentino - so that in all our regions we can create a similar system, based on volunteering, dedicated to defending our people and our territory. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u16	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, on behalf of the Senators of Freedoms and Equals and the whole of the Mixed Group, I wish to express my solidarity and closeness to all our fellow citizens and the people affected, as well as my sympathy for the victims. We must not forget today's day in haste, as has happened at other times. As time goes on, the newspapers don't talk about tragedies anymore, and it all ends. We must begin to become increasingly aware of the climate change that is taking place and to take note of the data provided by all the relevant institutions. I am thinking of the latest figures from the UN panel, which clearly tell us that climate change is not a fake new, as some people thought some time ago, but a reality that we have to deal with every day. The latest scientific data tells us that we only have 12 years to intervene before the process becomes irreversible. Last week the data of the work elaborated in recent times from another research institute, according to which is the Mediterranean - and not distant countries - the center of the climatic upheavals. Here come phenomena that we continue to call extremes for the power and tragedies they produce, but that risk being normal. We have to deal with phenomena such as those that have occurred in the last few days on our peninsula, which are at risk of being normal. What does all this mean? At the beginning of my speech I said that we cannot forget what happened and here we must make a solemn commitment to the adoption of a short- and medium-term plan for the security of our territory. The National Plan of adaptation to climate change cannot only be a beautiful research submitted to the Minister of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, as we need resources to put in place all the necessary investments to secure our territory and do important operations. In the last few days, someone has gone off-the-shelf polemics about living room environmentalisms. I would like to remind everyone that it is absolutely necessary to intervene not only to stop the consumption of the soil, but also to decementify our country, protect the rivers and accelerate the processes of renaturalization. We must intervene immediately where all the tragedies have occurred (I am thinking of the 14 million fallen trees), because in those areas the failure risks being immediate. These are the tasks we have to assume. It is now under consideration - I am addressing the representatives of the Government - the budgetary manoeuvre and that is the place where we can arrange the resources for a structural investment plan for the security and care of the territory and for the fight against hydrogeological failure. This is the adaptation plan that we must immediately put in place. You must understand once and for all that our territory is a fragile one; among all the European countries, perhaps it is the most fragile territory, as it is done and for the cementification put in place in all the last years. Clear the condons, cancel them. They no longer come to mind, because our territory needs care, restoration, recovery and security. Only in this way will we succeed in realizing solidarity with the people, in order to help them, of course, with all the necessary resources, and to honour the victims of this tragedy. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Cucca.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u19	TEXTOR (FI-BP). Mr President, I too want to speak at this very tragic moment for Italy; a time when our nation has been hit by a wave of bad weather that has brought victims, from the North to the South. The Forza Italia Group wants to express its condolences for the victims and above all the closeness to the family. What we've seen in the last few days has been an apocalyptic scenario. We have seen our valleys, our territories and our cities torn apart in a moment by bad weather. We have homes in difficulty, road connections interrupted, houses without light and without gas: a situation that we found unprepared to face. We've got victims and forests and whole woods destroyed. When we are about to pass the budget law, I believe we must find the resources to carry out the necessary works for the country to be able to resume. Minister Costa said he did not want Europe's anti-dissident funds. I wonder, then, whether we can be anti-European at this time or whether we should not ask Europe to do its part, because now Italy needs Europe's anti-European funds. We cannot owe exclusively for the income of citizenship and do not owe to give an answer to our territories. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I want to end my speech by thanking as always the Civil Protection, the fire department and all the volunteers who were not afraid to roll up their sleeves and enter the houses covered with mud to try to give the citizens the most immediate answers. I ask the whole Senate to give these people a big round of applause, because they deserve it, for their sacrifice and because they are always ready to help. I am also thinking of all the Forces of Order, which have coordinated security in our territories. I would like to conclude by calling on the Government to give immediate answers to those territories, some still isolated, some where the volunteers gave the first immediate answers. The government cannot back down and must also be helped by Europe. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u22	Durnwalder (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Calderoli for his words of condolence to the victims of recent days. At this moment when the country was hit by a particularly violent wave of bad weather, which caused several victims, I want to remember one in particular: the volunteer firefighter Giovanni Costa, fifty-two years old, who in San Martino in Badia died overwhelmed by a tree fallen by the strong wind, which hit him on his back. This valiant volunteer is part of those many citizens who in our areas, as well as throughout the national territory, make themselves available to the community to cope with the emergencies that unfortunately - as we see - increasingly affect the territories of the country. The local community recalls Giovanni Costa as a person esteemed by all, always willing to help others, very connected to his land. This is demonstrated by the fact that he has carried out political activities as city councillor and voluntary activities not only in the fire department, of which he has been a member for more than thirty years, but also in the associations of farmers and in that of tourism. Giovanni Costa leaves his wife and two young children, to whom all our mourning goes. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), M5S and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u25	Saviane (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on behalf of the Lega manifesto, solidarity and closeness to all the national territory, from Sicily, Liguria and Lazio, not to mention other places, and especially the North East. I spent the last three days visiting the many places of my Province, the Province of Belluno, so deeply affected by the bad weather. Surely you will have seen the images of the area of Belluno wounded, in an almost incredible way, by atmospheric events: rain, wind, landslides and floods have caused scary damage to entire countries and communities, which have found themselves without light, water, telephone lines and the Internet. All the power grid collapsed due to the fall of the trellis, twisted by the wind and by the fallen trees above the aerial lines of the electric current; aqueducts literally taken away and destroyed; landslides and landslides have interrupted the roads. In this catastrophic situation, the strength and will of my people have emerged in dealing with such difficult situations. First of all, the civil protection machine, managed by the Veneto Region, has carried out the rescue actions in an excellent way. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , in a preventive way, ordering the closure of schools, public offices and business activities, then coordinating emergencies and relief during and after catastrophic events. The mountain is fragile and difficult terrain. In recent decades, in line with extreme environmental opinions, environmental care, woods and waterways have become increasingly difficult. The philosophy of leaving to nature the task of self-regulation has seen the unarmed mountaineers observe how the uncultivated territory loaded up to burst the other day just like a bomb that, with ferocious fury, has unleashed landslides, landslides and floods, caused by uncleaned streams of water and no longer cured woods and pastures. Nature has not forgiven the carelessness that has lasted for a long time. The road has been restored as a matter of urgency, but it cannot bear the transit of heavy goods vehicles, such as trucks. This also slowed down the rescue, not being able to pass the trucks themselves with the excavators and the ruspes to free the roads and, above all, with the necessary power generators (one for each electric cabin) and the diesel for their operation. Living in the mountains is difficult and statistical analyses demonstrate the demographic decline that is taking place. Of course, what has happened is to strengthen, decisively, this trend. The commitment and the goal - they are not easy to achieve - go in the opposite direction, for a new territorial, social and economic planning, that allows mountain people to stay in those beautiful places, where you can breathe identity, history and great desire for life for future generations. My people have appreciated beyond measure the usual presence of the institutions: the visit on the spot of Minister Salvini, who, accompanied by our governor, Luca Zaia, met directly mayors and citizens. I also thank the undersecretaries Franco Manzato and Vannia Gava, with whom I visited the affected places. Never, never my lands, which see, numerically speaking, few voters inhabit large territories, have perceived the state so close. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u28	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, on behalf of the 5 Star Movement too, I would like to express my condolences for the victims of this terrible tragedy and our closeness to the families, to those who have lost everything: not only their lives, their homes, their affections. A tragedy that concerns the entire national territory, as has already been mentioned. Colleagues, I want to take up the spirit that has emerged in this House after the tragedies: of course it is reflected on what to do, what could be done, what has been done and what will be done. It is impossible for me, however, not to remember, President - I do so very quietly - that from the flood of Florence, which is the emblem of a disaster of unendurable proportions, nothing has been done. Fifty years have passed, and the successive governments - with regard to the words that have been evoked in this House, which should have turned into deeds, but which have not turned into deeds - have done nothing. I would say even more in the last sixteen years, nothing has been done in the territories affected by such tragedies. However, we, Mr President - and I would like to say this in a very objective, concrete and subdued way - have already given answers, we are giving them. The President of the Council Giuseppe Conte has already stated that a billion euros has been made available for the protection of human lives, which lies within the problem of hydrogeological failure. EUR 59 million - and additional resources will be allocated - has been allocated to the basin authorities with regard to the control of water flows. These are facts, ladies and gentlemen, which cannot be overlooked at this time when we are thinking about what to do and what we have at our disposal. Also the minister Costa has announced that shortly will sign an agreement with the Region Friuli-Venezia Giulia in order to face situations of this type. Colleagues, first of all I would like to thank the Civil Protection, the machine that worked perfectly, for the promptness of the interventions. The same government immediately rushed to the places of the disaster. Look, these are important things. I really take back the spirit of certain interventions, but we cannot ignore what we have already foreseen and what we will see in the next budgetary manoeuvre, in which there will be short- and medium-term interventions precisely in relation to hydrogeological failure. These are facts, ladies and gentlemen, which, on a day like this, very much help those people who, unfortunately, have to face up to their own land of a disaster that leaves us all unhindered and helpless compared to these unpredictable lucky ones. We have seen bad weather, but we must have a horizon in which we somehow plan, and we are doing so. Colleagues, I think it is right to thank this Government for what it is doing and for what it will do, I believe in the same spirit that you have indicated. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u31	Mr Garavaglia, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. Mr President, in renewing the closeness and condolences to the families who have suffered such dramatic events, we are reaffirming the commitment of the Government to ensure, already in the next law of stability, important investments in particular on the issue of failure, which is the priority of priorities. You know that this government has already committed itself to pushing very hard on the leverage of investment. Well, among them, the absolute priority must be precisely that of the contrast and resolution of this so dramatic problem, that of the failure that affects so many Italian citizens. The proximity is total to the local authorities: Municipalities, Provinces and Regions, and for them we must guarantee adequate resources to solve this issue, but also to companies that have suffered crazy damage. Let us think, for example, of bathing enterprises, which have literally seen themselves sweep away a life of work and investment. In guaranteeing this, we call on Parliament to support us with ideas, advice and criticism, in order to do the best possible. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u32	Two brief words even less formal than before: being an elder of these Parliamentary classrooms of moments like this have lived so many, too many unfortunately, and each time you looked at a part of the country. This time you really go from East to West, from North to South, from Belluno to Sicily and what happened affects the whole country. Now it is truly imperative for everyone, each senator of opposition or majority, to stop chattering, but to act: it must be a proper fact. [[Applause]] Let's put on the door the notes of emergencies and things to do, because situations like this cannot be relived only in terms of "poor": "we pray for the dead" or "we hope that they will heal soon": no, that's enough. These things don't have to happen anymore.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u33	The next item is the debate on draft law No 840. The rapporteur, Senator Borghesi, requested authorization to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u34	Mr President, Decree-Law No 113 of 2018, which we are now called upon to examine for its conversion into law, contains urgent provisions on international protection and immigration, public security, as well as measures for the functionality of the Ministry of the Interior and the organisation and functioning of the National Agency for the Administration and Destination of Goods seized and confiscated from organised crime. This is a very full-bodied measure, structured in 40 articles divided into four Titles. Title I contains provisions on the issue of special temporary residence permits for humanitarian needs as well as for international protection and immigration. Article 1 provides for the repeal of the institution of the residence permit for humanitarian reasons. It also provides for the substantial protection of certain special residence permits to be maintained in some cases. Some of them - such as the victims of violence or serious exploitation, domestic violence and particularly labour exploitation - are already covered by the single text of immigration and are partly redefined by the decree. Further amendments to the single text are intended to regulate other cases on time, such as exceptional health conditions and contingent situations of natural disaster in the country of origin which temporarily prevent the return of the foreigner in safe conditions. A residence permit for acts of particular civil value is also introduced. Finally, provisions are introduced concerning disputes relating to the issue of the special permits referred to above, as regards the competent court and the procedure for dealing with appeals. Article 2 raises from 90 to one hundred and eighty days the maximum period of detention of the foreigner within the detention centres for returnees. At the same time, it raises from 90 to one hundred and eighty days the period of detention at prison facilities, after which the foreigner may be detained at the residence centre for return for a maximum period of thirty days. It shall also authorise the use of the negotiated procedure without prior publication of the notice of invitation to tender in order to ensure timely development of the centres. Article 3 deals with the rules governing the detention of aliens who have applied for international protection. To this end, it shall introduce two new detention cases motivated by the need to determine or verify the identity or nationality of the foreigner requesting international protection. New detention assumptions shall be authorised at specified places and for defined times. In particular, detention is authorised for the time strictly necessary, and in any case no more than thirty days, in the specific points of crisis identified by article 10-b, paragraph 1, of the single text on immigration. Where it has not been possible to arrive at the determination or verification of the identity or nationality of the foreigner requesting international protection, detention may be carried out, for a maximum period of one hundred and eighty days, in the return residence centres referred to in Article 14 of the same single text. Article 4 introduces certain arrangements for the temporary stay of the foreigner pending expulsion order. In particular, in the absence of places in detention centres for return, it is expected that the foreigner may remain in other suitable facilities in the availability of the public security authority until the validation process is defined. Article 5 makes it clear that the prohibition of re-entry against the foreigner who receives an expulsion order is effective in the territory of the Member States of the European Union and of the non-Member States in which the Schengen agreements apply. Article 6 assigns to the Return Fund, established at the Ministry of the Interior, the resources allocated by the 2018 Budget Law for the start of an assisted voluntary return programme. Article 7 extends the scope of the offences which, in the event of a final conviction, result in the denial and withdrawal of international protection, including criminal cases of particular social alarm. Article 8 provides for the cessation of refugee and subsidiary protection status. In particular, it is specified that - except for the assessment of the concrete case - the return to the country of origin indicates the willingness of the refugee to re-establish himself. Article 9 excludes from the benefit of authorisation to remain on national territory asylum seekers who repeat the application to delay or prevent the execution of an expulsion order or because the first repeated application was found inadmissible or rejected as unfounded. Article 10 regulates the immediate procedure before the Territorial Commission in special cases. Article 11 provides for the possibility of setting up within the prefectures up to a maximum of three territorial units of the Dublin unit, which is responsible for identifying the State of the European Union responsible for examining applications for protection. Article 12 deals with the provisions concerning the protection system for asylum seekers and refugees, in order to limit territorial reception services to holders of international protection and unaccompanied foreign minors. Consequently, the total installation of the reception system for migrants on the territory is modified, as defined by Legislative Decree no. 142 of 2015. Article 13 provides that the residence permit for applications for asylum shall not permit the registration of residents in the register, provided that it constitutes a document of recognition. Article 14 introduces new provisions on the acquisition and revocation of citizenship, amending and supplementing to this end Law No 91 of 1992. Among its forecasts, it points out the possibility of withdrawing citizenship in the event of a final conviction for a series of crimes, as well as the repeal of the provision that precludes the rejection of the request for the acquisition of citizenship by marriage, which took two years from the same. Article 15 lays down provisions on justice. In particular, it is intended to fill a legislative gap by aligning the rules laid down for civil proceedings with those laid down for criminal proceedings under Article 106 of the single text on justice costs. Title II introduces rules to strengthen the mechanisms to guarantee public security, with particular reference to the threat of terrorism and the fight against criminal infiltration into public procurement, as well as to the improvement of the information circuit between the police and the judicial authority. In detail, Article 16 extends the possibility of criminality that allows the judge to take the order of removal from the family home even outside the limits of penalty provided for in Article 280 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and introduces the possibility to use the electronic bracelet as a means of monitoring the execution of this measure, in the case of ill-treatment against family members or cohabitants and stalking. Article 17 places the obligation on operators of car rental activities of vehicles without drivers to communicate customer identification data to the CED interforces for the purpose of preventing terrorism. Article 18 provides for an extension of access by municipal police personnel, in municipalities with a population of more than 100,000, to specific archives in the CED interforce database. Article 19 aims to allow the municipal police of municipalities with more than 100,000 inhabitants to use common electrical impulse weapons experimentally. Article 20 extends, for prevention purposes, the application of the prohibition of access to sporting events to suspects of terrorist offences including international and other offences against the personality of the State and public order. Article 21 extends the scope of the discipline of the so-called urban DASP to areas where health care is required and to areas where fairs, markets and public shows are held. Article 22 contains a provision aimed at meeting the contingents and extraordinary needs of the State Police and the National Fire Department for the purchase and strengthening of information systems aimed at combating international terrorism, as well as for the financing of different interventions of extraordinary maintenance and adaptation of structures and plants. Article 23 provides that both roadblocking and blockage or footprint of railroads are to be punished as a criminal offence. Articles 24 to 29 contain provisions on preventing and combating mafia crime. Article 24 deals with appeals against measures of a patrimonial nature referred to in the Anti-Mafia Code, removes the obligation to notify the judicial authority of proposals for the application of the measures presented by the quaestor independently and extends the scope of the offences which result in the occurrence of cases preventing the release of the anti-Mafia notice. Article 25 is intended to tighten the penalty treatment for the conduct of contractors who make illegal use of subcontracting mechanisms. Article 26 introduces the obligation to communicate to the prefect the indication of the beginning of activity of the yards within the Province. The provision contained in Article 27 updates the obligation to transmit judgments of irrevocable convictions to prison sentences, already in force for the Registrars of the judicial offices, adding also the ablation or restrictive measures. Article 28 introduces amendments to Article 143 of the single text of the laws on the local authorities' legal order, in particular a kind of operational protocol that allows extraordinary interventions to be taken in the event that, while there is no evidence to arrange for the dissolution of the local authority, anomalies or illegalities have been found to lead to a diversion of the institution's activity. Article 29 increases the allocation of resources to cover the financial costs associated with the activity carried out by the extraordinary commissions for the management of the dissolved entities as a result of infiltration and conditioning of the mafia or similar type. Articles 30 and 31 introduce measures aimed at combating the phenomenon of arbitrary occupation of real estate, through the tightening of penalties imposed against the promoters and organizers of the occupations and the possibility of having telephone interceptions. Title III introduces provisions for the functionality of the Ministry of the Interior and interventions to strengthen the organisation and functioning of the National Agency of seized and confiscated assets. In particular, with reference to the Ministry of the Interior, Article 32 provides for the reduction of 29 posts of general managerial level, in order to guarantee the overall objectives of economicity and revision of the expenditure provided for by the legislation in force. Article 33 contains an authorisation of expenditure for the payment, from 2018, of the compensation for extraordinary work performed by members of the police forces also in derogation from the limit of the amount of resources intended for the ancillary treatment of public administration staff, established by Legislative Decree No 75 of 2017. Article 34 increases by EUR 5.9 million for 2019 and by EUR 5 million from 2020 the appropriations for the remuneration of voluntary fire department staff. Article 35 establishes a fund in which the authorisations of expenditure already planned and not used for the reorganization of the career roles of police and armed forces personnel, plus an appropriation of EUR 5 million per year from 2018. Articles 36 to 38 relate to the organisation and operation of the National Agency for the Administration and Destination of property seized and confiscated from organised crime. In particular, Article 36 contains provisions aimed at rationalising the procedures for the management and destination of confiscated goods, including the possibility of selling such goods on the market, while Article 37 deals with the organisation and management of the Agency, providing for the establishment of no more than four sub-offices. Article 38 sets out rules for derogation from the rules on the containment of public expenditure and repealing provisions. Title IV, in Articles 39 and 40, contains the final provisions concerning the financial cover of the measure and its entry into force.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u35	The minority rapporteur, Senator Mirabelli, has requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u36	Mr President, I would like to outline the minority report presented by the Democratic Party Group in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the basis of a consideration. We had a long discussion about this decree-law. We have also deepened this process by using a large number of expertise from those we have audited in the Commission. In today's final text we find nothing in the House of these contributions, just as we find very little of the contributions made by the Groups in the debate in the Commission. We have listened to competent people who have pointed out to us in detail about the constitutionality of certain rules, about the inopportunity of others and we record that none of this has been collected in this text. On the other hand, it could only be so because this decree-law is, in reality, a political manifesto and not a law. It is not the attempt to introduce by a decree-law of urgency rules that guarantee more security to citizens because there are no rules of this kind: there is no money for video surveillance and for the Forces of Order; there are no tools to speed up rejections. There is none of this. It is a manifesto that indicates priorities and gives a message with respect to some priorities; it confuses the issue of the government of immigration with the theme of insecurity and I fear that, on this point, the judgment on this decree-law will not only be that of a useless decree. From the point of view of immigration and from the point of view of security, this measure will be harmful; it will increase insecurity, disorder and illegality. You do not want to govern immigration on the basis of rules; with this decree-law you want to send a message. You delude yourself to explain to people who run away from hunger and despair that, since there are bad rules here that make life difficult for immigrants, it is better that they do not come. To do this you will introduce a set of rules that are absolutely incomprehensible from the point of view of the immigration government. You want to scare and to achieve this goal make sure that those who pay are certain categories. First of all, those who arrive here - whether or not they have a right - are subjected to an ordeal, which is frankly unnecessary. Moreover, reducing the motivations for the humanitarian permit will happen the following: who is here with one of the permits granted in the past and who in recent years has worked, studied, has made a family or, perhaps, a house, when, after this decree-law, goes to renew his permission, this will not be renewed and will be told that he must return home, because the reasons for which he entered are no longer there. The choice will be to go home or, more likely, being one who has a job, a home or a family, go underground and stay in Italy with a position of irregularities. It does not seem to me that this gives more security to the citizens. It does not seem to me that there is a better civil coexistence in hiding. However, I would like to introduce another subject. The idea that this is a country that rejects immigrants and foreigners reaches the point of hitting the Italian boys who were born here, who studied here. In the last parliamentary term we talked about the ius soli. Now, you can say what you want about that law, that it could be improved or worse, but there is one point: now to those kids - to whom we told them that we had to do faster to give them citizenship, because we recognize that they were born here and that they live here - let's say that it is not enough even twenty-four months to have citizenship and that when they turn eighteen they will have to wait another four years to have it. This is contained in this decree-law. And what does all this have to do with the safety of the citizens frankly I find it difficult to understand. How I find it hard to understand how it is not understood that this measure makes a country less secure and widens illegality. The decree provides for the removal of residence permits for humanitarian reasons, which will deprive the Italian legal system of essential instruments for the implementation of articles of the Constitution. But there is not only this: this legislation demolishes the pieces of integration that work. Integration is a problem in this country, but there is a tool that works and has proven to work and it is SPRAR (Protection System for Asylum and Refugees Applicants). The substantial dismantling of SPRAR will result in the loss of a fundamental instrument of integration. There it teaches Italian, there it explains where it is, there it gives new professional skills, there it is the construction of social networks on the territories, it becomes integration. All right, so let's clear the SPRARs. Still: weakening integration is not something that gives more security to a country, but it certainly gives less. I'm not talking about any more bad things, like building repatriation centers. All legitimate and I agree: those who have no right to be in this country should leave. I register, however, that in this decree-law we build new centres for repatriation that, we discover, are so urgent that we do what, when we did it for Expo, was not good. To build these centers you can, that is, grant the contracts without doing the races, which here someone, in recent years, had explained to us to be a crime and that none of them would ever do it. However, you build return centers with contracts awarded without a tender, unlike the law provides. It is a derogation that can be made, but I stress the fact that you do it. After that, we'll put those 400,000, 500,000, or 600,000 irregular immigrants in these centers, no longer for ninety days but for one hundred and eighty days. Then, however, there is no rule governing repatriation. There is no "one extra lira" for return, except promises in the budget law. There is no diplomatic capacity to promote return. Unless we think that insulting the Tunisian Government on a daily basis, as someone does, is a way of getting the conditions for return. This is the decree-law. The measures that have now been mentioned on time by my colleague are measures that are frankly without money and without strength. We have made proposals. We are stuck with the so-called Minniti package. There is nothing more and even when it is pretended to attribute many powers to the mayors, it is basically told that they can do what is already foreseen with the ordinances today and in other ways. So, even in that case, there is nothing that can make us say that tomorrow the Italian citizens will be safer and the territory more supervised. There is none of this. Let me make a joke: I find it extraordinary that we voted on a law on self-defense. We said that with that law the State sent a message to the citizens: we can not defend you, defend yourselves. I have to say, reading the security decree, we were right. There is no euro and all the amendments on video surveillance have been rejected. Where are the rules to ensure more attention to the territory? And I want to say something else; where are the rules to prevent events like that of San Lorenzo from happening again? If the mayors needed tools to intervene, they had to be put in the measure to our examination, forcing, for example, the properties to prevent the degradation of the structures: strong measures that could be inserted and not done. Where are the measures against hullists and human traffickers? There aren't because some people in the country seem to be fighting the ethnic shop under the house or the abusive valet. The question of the Mafia is also in the background. With this measure we say that we are discussing a security decree in which, however, all these things come before the fight against the Mafia, which we are only interested in because we intervene on confiscated property and their sale, making sure that they are sold more quickly and that we can have the money that comes from that sale. It is forgotten, however, that the so-called law Pio La Torre, which establishes the confiscation of property, says that, on the one hand, it is necessary to strike the assets of the mobs with confiscation, but, on the other hand, that those assets must be returned to the citizens. I understand that if the Municipalities do not succeed, those assets must not remain without destination, but frankly to send the message that the confiscated property is sold, it is wrong and it is a message - I must acknowledge the Undersecretary Molteni - partly dampened by the fact that it has been decided to activate at least one fund that allows the Municipalities to have the money to put the confiscated property at the disposal of the community. That said, the message doesn't change. There are no rules for the fight against the Mafia, sales come first and even in part, in some respects, the recent reform of the anti-Mafia code is demolished. It is not a good sign to say that the tables between unions and local confindustries, aimed at ensuring that confiscated companies can live and, with a collective effort, maintain employment, become optional. Therefore, I think that this is the decree-law to our examination, beyond the individual rules. It is a political manifesto that indicates an enemy - immigration - in which there are no rules and a euro to enhance the security of citizens. It is a manifesto that serves to give satisfaction to a political force, a part of the Government, but it does not help Italian citizens to be safer. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u37	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Saponara is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u38	Mr President, fellow Senators of the Republic, with regard to the immigration and public security decree under discussion in this House today, I believe that a consideration must be given first of all, namely that until a few months ago the issues of immigration and security were handled with great incompetence and lightness and that the text in approval is a necessary and necessary act in order to restore some order and legality. We must thank the failed policies of the previous Government if the situation has clearly got out of hand and if we now find ourselves cities that boast entire neighborhoods hostage of the underworld, inaccessible and inviable for the honest citizens, often forced to live barricaded in their own home. The perception of security has been reduced to very low levels and for this reason it has become necessary, on the part of the current Government, to start a path aimed at restoring that order in our cities and in civil life that has failed. The decree-law in question does not want to be, as some say, a discriminatory measure or - worse still - a violation of human rights. It aims to remedy the previous mismanagement of public security and immigration by re-establishing the rules necessary for civil coexistence. Legality and order are therefore the objectives of the decree-law in question, against which no criticism and demonstrations of a certain political part have been spared, which, while calling on Europe as the guarantor of human rights which, in his opinion, the text would violate, on the other hand pretends not to understand the conformity of the norms contained in it precisely to the European directives on immigration and reception. The unconstitutionality so decoded of some articles recalls the same accusations made a few months ago on the occasion of the story of the ship Diciotti, which we all know how it ended. During the days that we have been engaged in the Commission, it has been said that the measure we are considering is likely to enter a stage of incivilization, which is going to dismantle the integration system, that the rules contained therein touch on inhumanity. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you what a degree of civilization, what a result of integration and, finally, that humanity existed and there is in the countless violent acts that have generated very serious events, one of which unfortunately happened very recently. It has also been said that with this measure we are making a carefree and dangerous propaganda, that the rules contained in it are reprehensible, that we must apologize to the Italians about the cheating - I repeat: the cheating - that we are doing with this measure. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not the ones who have to apologize, but who, with such carelessness and lightness, has created this state of affairs, going to snatch people for the right to live freely and safely at home. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] , the right to travel quietly to our cities, the right simply to live. Someone's got to apologize for this, and that's definitely not us. On the other hand, someone has told us that they have been too bland and incisive with the decree-law under consideration. I reply by saying that the content of the decree-law follows the choices we have considered most appropriate. Today the measure has arrived at the examination of the Assembly, as an act due to citizens for good and respect for them and their rights should be voted unanimously, because it defends not only the Italians, but also all foreigners who have made their home in Italy working honestly and respecting the laws. They are often the first to ask for more order. It is a point of arrival, but above all a starting point with the 40 articles contained in it that address in the whole field the delicate and complex aspects of immigration and security. It is on some of them that I want to focus, aware of how much they have and will continue to hold in the general discussions and that for this reason deserve clarification: humanitarian protection, extraordinary reception centres (CAS), protection system for asylum seekers and refugees (SPRAR), territorial commissions and law enforcement. The decree-law on our examination supplants the humanitarian protection in favour of some special permits and this in view of the fact that this institute, introduced in Italy in 1998, has been extensively abused: humanitarian protection, in fact, consists of a residence permit for humanitarian reasons, which is issued when the requirements for political asylum do not exist, nor those for subsidiary protection. And the percentages tell us that the number of humanitarian protections granted is far greater than both political and subsidiary asylum protection: 23% against 7% refugee status and 4% subsidiary protection. Therefore, no right is harmed, as someone wants us to believe, because international protection is guaranteed by our Constitution. The decree-law then guarantees SPRAR only to those entitled, i.e. to those who are granted refugee status, subsidiary or special protection and unaccompanied minors, until the end of the application for protection procedure. This is a measure aimed at containing public spending, but that some think can produce many illegals: in this regard it is worth remembering, meanwhile, that thanks to an incisive action of Government and, specifically, of the Minister of the Interior, Matteo Salvini, the landings have greatly decreased, from about 122,000 in 2017 to about 22,000 in 2018: 87 percent less. Everything is going to speed up the procedures for the recognition of asylum seekers, with the strengthening of territorial committees. We do not see, therefore, in the face of all these measures and with the decrease in landings, how a large number of illegal immigrants can be created. An important chapter is what concerns the Forces of order and also in this case are the numbers to speak: with funds exclusively of the Ministry of the Interior - to which could therefore be added other funds, coming from other Ministries - were destined to the State Police 10,5 million euros for 2018 and 36,65 million euros for each year from 2019 to 2025; for the National Corps of Firefighters were allocated 4,5 million euros for 2018 and 12,5 million euros for each year from 2019 to 2025, with the forecast to carry out, with the next budget law, 1,500 assumptions, to cover 50 percent of the actual needs of Firefighters. Mr President, some people still have the courage to say that the decree under consideration has paid little attention to the Forces of Order. Then I ask: why didn't you do it? Only now do you find solutions to all problems? Yet you have had years to think about it and apply appropriate measures. To conclude, the decree-law in question wants first of all to be an answer to citizens who ask for more security, but also a means to give back to our cities and our daily lives that decorum and dignity to which we are all entitled. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u39	Senator Berutti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u40	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the news of recent weeks reminds us, unfortunately, of how much priority it is in our country to intervene on security. Forza Italia has long been aware of this need. It is not merely statements of principle that account for our consistency, but numbers. In the two central years of the last Berlusconi Government, 2009 and 2010, the development of crime has fallen both in relation to the total number of crimes reported to the judicial authority, and in relation to individual crimes such as murders, beatings, threats and robberies. That same decline has not always been confirmed in the following years and, therefore, any intervention aimed at increasing the safety of citizens and also the perception of security (which, especially for women, is still too low) can only see us favorable, even and especially if this intervention is put in place with a concomitant close on immigration, especially the irregular, illegal one, which is transversally recognized as related to crime. Fight against terrorism, resumption of border control, blocking of landings, repatriation of all illegals, abolition of the Italian anomaly of the indiscriminate concession of the so-called humanitarian protection, protection of the dignity of the Forces of Order and the Armed Forces with dignified salaries, adequate staff, means and technologies suitable for the fight against crime and terrorism, tightening of penalties for violence against an official public: this set of proposals was contained in the program for Italy presented by the center-right during the elections of 4 March last. It is clear, therefore, that security is one of the pillars of our political action, in line with a battle that we have been leading for a long time both in the parliamentary classrooms and in the country, and that aims to reconcile our stainless adherence to liberal principles with the need to combat any form of crime. The fact that many of the points in the centre-right electoral programme are in the text that we are launching today's debate in this House says a lot about the dowry that we have brought to this government and, perhaps, about its balance. However, this is not the place in which to dwell on these aspects and not even the one in which to return to the reasons why Forza Italia is currently in opposition: an opposition free from prejudices and responsible, which, on the one hand, willingly admits that a good part of the norms contained in the text are valid on the other, cannot fail to say that there are also critical issues both in terms of constitutionality, and the outcome of some obvious compromises to the decrease between the League and Movimento 5 Stars, whose effects must not fall on the Italians. I do not go into the merits of all four Titles in which the text under consideration is articulated. On the other hand, I would like to focus on the provisions of Title III, Chapter I, which includes provisions for the functionality of the Ministry of Interior, including certain measures for the Forces of Order, including the Fire Departments. Already with the amending proposals submitted to the Commission, Forza Italia has intended to make as effective and concrete as possible, in material terms, the support to those who daily guarantee the security of the national community and to whom it cannot and must not be sufficient to address a thank you to words that, as time goes by, risk disappearing or, even worse, turn into an empty rhetoric. For this reason, already in the Commission we have asked for more substantial allowances at the end of the month; the extension of the measures planned for the payment of overtime to the police forces, to the fire department and to the local police; the state is responsible for the treatment and analysis for the pathologies and traumatic events that may have occurred in the performance of the service activity; the increase of 350 units of organic endowment in the qualification of fire department; the granting of social security benefits for fire brigades exposed to asbestos; the allocation of 1.2 billion euros for 2019 and 1.7 billion euros from 2020 for new recruitment of personnel of the Armed Forces, Police and the National Corps of Firefighters. With reference to the fire department, the objective of dealing with the lack of nearly 3,000 units at national level is certainly not exhausted with the forecasts contained in the decree-law that we are going to convert and with which I call, once again, the attention of the Government, which I urge to intervene. In the same way, I urge the Commission on the shortcomings that have long involved training courses for tomorrow's policemen, who certainly do not deserve to learn the difficult job of safety with lack of courses and uniforms. The proposals put forward by Forza Italia in the Commission on the measure, in relation to the issues I have mentioned, have been ignored. However, we hope that the amendments tabled in this House, which are in the spirit and objectives of the measure, will be accepted. It will also be through this path, in fact, that the action of this legislature can at least partially ensure that the practical ideal aimed at creating an ever greater freedom in human society, is left the appropriate space, through an intervention as effective as possible to guarantee the security of our citizens and the conditions and recognitions to men and women who work every day to make our country a safer, livable and better place. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lanzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, from the elections last March and from the requests that come to us every day, it is clear that the security factor is one of the most important and priority elements in the perception of Italians. We cannot and do not want to leave the voice of those who live every day with fear and fear for their own safety and their loved ones unheard. This measure we are debating today is necessary to test, by appropriate regulatory means, our capacity to welcome and manage migration flows, the possibility of providing assistance, the ability to ensure conditions of dignity and inclusion essential to prevent poverty and social marginality from becoming a breeding ground for crime, fundamentalism and terrorism. Not only that. It should be stressed that the issue of security cannot be separated from this context linked to migration. Those who deny that there is a problem related to who to sustain themselves must live from gimmicks denies the reality of the facts. For Italy and Europe, the issue of managing migratory flows has been central for many years and is inevitably destined to involve us still long, given the factors that have determined it at global level and that will continue to do so if the causes (poverty, wars and famines) are not removed. So not only Italy, but Europe must look at this phenomenon in a strategic perspective and, at the same time, take full (not as has been done in the past) responsibility for an emergency that, if not managed, risks becoming chronic. Our country's commitment to saving human lives in the Mediterranean and guaranteeing protection for those who are forced to flee is more intense and costly every day; but we are proud of it, because this commitment is consistent with our values of solidarity and acceptance. Our history and origins are deeply anchored to the migrations that have been moving through the Mediterranean for millennia. We Italians are children of that history; but our effort must not be taken for granted and all the more must be appreciated, the more we spread in Europe feelings and hostile orientations towards the full implementation of the principle of solidarity between the States enshrined in the Treaties. Italy, like other European countries, has chosen not to evade this responsibility and to work to govern the migratory flow from Africa and other affected areas, despite the difficulties and repercussions at the social and political level in the different territories. We are experiencing a moment of great change, which requires lucidity and pragmatism at all levels, local, national and European. The most delicate, but crucial, challenge for all of us lies precisely in the ability to manage the complexity of the migration phenomenon, together with the social sustainability of reception and integration policies. The tightest control of those who arrive in our country, to identify on time who is really in need of international protection, I think it is a wish for everyone. We clearly explain to the Italians that most migrants landing on our coasts come from countries that are not at war and that these people will not have the right to political asylum. Two of the countries from which more migrants come are Tunisia and Nigeria, just to give an example. I take inspiration from this last country to mention some data from 2016, year of tens of thousands of landings. Of 11,340 applications for asylum or protection, only 2,955 were accepted. This trend is the same in the last two years; and if we consider that more than a fifth of the questions come from women, those often victims of trafficking, then we understand well how there are thousands of adult men who are economic migrants. We often hear in the talk shows the fact that it highlights the relationship between refugees and the national population. Let us repeat it aloud: this is a fact that does not reflect at all the reality that we live every day in our cities. UNHCR itself, which cites migrants living in every Member State of the European Union, also certifies the number of asylum applications submitted: in Italy we have almost 20% of asylum applications from all over Europe, over 126,000 last year. Since of these, as I have already pointed out, only a small part has the right to asylum, it is clear that tens of thousands of people, non-regular migrants, are really to be managed. This decree-law, however, is not only aimed at migrants: we tighten the penalties for ill-treatment and stalking with the use of the electronic bracelet, we introduce norms for the Daspus to potential terrorists, we will check who will rent vehicles because most terrorist attacks in recent years have been made using vehicles often hired. I think I have made it quite clear that this majority does not want to escape the commitment to dealing with this situation and that it intends to do so decisively. I conclude by stressing how to introduce certainty of expulsion and revocation of citizenship for those who suffer serious crimes is a guarantee not only for Italians, but also for all those who have come to our country, have integrated and share the climate of insecurity that we live every day in our cities. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bressa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u44	Mr President, I begin my speech on what I do not call a safety decree-law, but an apology to what you really are. We depart from the Constitution, from Articles 2, 3, 22, 24, which constitute the framework within which the provision of Article 10 is inserted, in particular paragraph 3 of Article 10: The foreigner, who is prevented in his country from effectively exercising the democratic freedoms guaranteed by the Italian Constitution, has the right to asylum in the territory of the Republic, in accordance with the conditions laid down by law. But we also reread the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation in this regard: the judgment n. 4674 of 1997, which affirms the preceptive character of the constitutional provision and its immediate immediate operation, which, with sufficient clarity, outlines the case that gives rise to the foreigner the right of asylum; the judgment n. 4455 of 23 February 2018, which defines that the right of asylum is fully implemented and regulated through the discipline of the three institutions of refugee status, subsidiary protection and the right to the issue of a residence permit for humanitarian reasons; the judgment n. 2767 of 5 February 2018, which provides that humanitarian protection is the effect of the serious violation of human rights suffered by the applicant in the country of origin. This is a particularly significant sentence, because it eliminates any application automatism. There must be reasons, which they must ascertain. It is, therefore, an articulated, flexible, rational system, which corresponds to the most correct idea of the Constitution; not merely an organization of powers, but an organization of powers functional to the guarantee of fundamental rights. So far, the right. But let's move on to the facts, the decisions on asylum seekers in the years 2016-2017 (source of the Ministry of Interior): in 2016 the total number of cases examined was 91,102; humanitarian protection was granted to 18,979 people, equal to 21 percent, and denied 54,254, equal to 60 percent; in 2017 the total number of cases examined was 81,527 and humanitarian protection was granted to 20,166 people, equal to 25 percent, and denied 46,992, equal to 58 percent. We're talking about a little over 35,000 cases. Where's the urgency, then? What are we talking about? Where is the emergency to proceed on such a delicate subject with decree-law? Without shared facts there can be no rational discussion of political choices; without truth democracy is lame. Orwell said that he was afraid that the truth would be denied to us, but this Parliament will prevent you from doing so, that is to say to deny the truth, and he will do so in a speech, breaking the veil of your hypocrisy. The reality is that you - and the League in particular - consider this decree-laws a political manifesto, your ideological identity card. As he well describes in a very recent essay a professor from Oxford, Zielonka, migration is part of human history and politics towards migrants has hardly ever been Realpolitik; rather it concerned the way of orienting prejudices and fears; it concerned the way of treating strangers as "other": barbarians, as they were usually called. But you're way below this standard, too. Wei Yuan, a member of the Great Secretariat of the Imperial Manchurian Court in China - we are in 1839 before the First Opium War - was invited to write a document on how to treat European migrants, because history has its own logic and repeats itself in different forms over time. So he wrote: To deal with barbaric affairs, one must know the feelings of barbarians; to know the feelings of barbarians, one must know the conditions of barbarians. Emperor Daoguang, a hundred and eighty years ago, was more aware of Salvini; he was ahead of Di Maio. This government removes the reality, the substance, the truth of the problem. Many flee not because they are persecuted by their governments, but because their governments are unable to cope with local violence, climate change, famines. These are neither typically economic nor typically political migrants, but they form a new and even wider group of migrants for survival. And what is your answer? A decree-law that erases humanitarian protection and complicates life for migrants, mayors, law enforcement. A measure that has as immediate effect that to increase the irregulars in the street, because the thousands of people thrown out of the circuit of the diffuse reception do not leave and will not leave Italy at all. The proof is that in 2018, against 25,000 expelled, there are 4,700 returnees. So, these people are going to feed the field of marginality and criminal labour. But there's more. This rhetoric of yours, which today refers to rules, undermines another pillar of liberalism: respect for human rights and citizenship. Policies aimed at preventing people from fleeing from their countries openly deny refugees human rights, and deny them by using fear, on the contrary, by nourishing fear: fear as an unmistakable symptom of the pre-emptive unwillingness to establish a relationship, as a reflection of invincible insecurity, as a witness to the inability to recognize a fundamental fact, namely the fact that the relationship with the other constitutes the condition without which it is not possible to recognize and affirm one's identity. Fear excited until it reaches a sort of public hysteria, which reaches its peak when refugees are portrayed as terrorists. Viktor Orban, a recognized moral and intellectual guide for Minister Salvini, says that all terrorists are fundamentally migrants. All this is very dangerous; Carl Schmitt recalls dramatically and his total state, in which the principle of majority and parliamentary minority is not acceptable, in which the only recognized logic is that of polarity between friend and enemy, where the enemy is not an opponent in general, but is essentially in a particularly intensive sense something else and foreign. This is essentially your further political cheating: You want the minority of this Parliament to live as something alien to the lives of its citizens: you, the bulwark of democracy; we, the public enemy to be destroyed. But you won't. We can lose this parliamentary battle in terms of votes, but the sense of American constitutionalism is that it is a continuous evolutionary process aimed at opposing the right to force: a process that may have faded, but which is far from being defeated. George Washington in his farewell speech of 1796 said that America, in order to protect its future, had to defend its Constitution and warned - they are words of George Washington - from the rise of cunning, ambitious and unprincipled men who could try to subvert the power of the people and... to destroy for themselves the reins of the government, destroying the mechanisms themselves that raised them to an unjust position of power. This decree is your sin of presumption, it is the declaration of your games of power and of your moral void, but you have wrong. Today the indignation is in this House, but when the decree disappears its effects in the country, the indignation will be of the country and for you it will be late. The question is not only to refrain from inhumane treatment of migrants, but to achieve concretely our standards of humanity: you are not able to do so and by this decree you are demonstrating it. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u45	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, with respect to the Security Decree, I will talk about the part relating to immigration starting from the data that more than anything else allow to understand the phenomenon: from 2013 to 2017 the arrivals in our country were almost 700,000. Of the arrivals 85 percent were men, while 15 percent were women; few families, since almost 80 percent were young men between the ages of eighteen and thirty - four. Of the total arrivals, however, only 430,000 migrants, that is 65 percent, have applied for asylum; of the remaining part, 35 percent, we do not know where they are and what they are doing, certainly many are dedicated in the flood to committing crimes. Last year, only 15% of asylum seekers received international protection, while 25% of asylum seekers received humanitarian protection, being the only European country to have introduced it in 2008 with the Prodi government. Faced with this huge mass of arrivals, the reception system exploded: from just over 22,000 visitors at the end of 2013 to 184,000 at the end of 2017. With this explosion of arrivals the costs incurred by the State have also exploded: 5 billion last year, of which about two thirds for the reception. A madness, considering that the majority were irregular economic migrants and therefore illegal: official numbers communicated by Padoan, not by the League. In short, in the last five years the Democratic Party has been a management of failed immigration that has even blamingly increased the attraction factors of our country, because you have focused on welcoming everyone and at all costs. You even wanted to recognise humanitarian protection even in simple cases of integration, not to mention the unfortunate attempt to introduce the ius soli that the League has blocked. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Rizzotti]] Attraction factors represented by the services provided in the reception system: breakfast, lunch and dinner, mobile phone with card and wi-fi for everyone. Two years of benefits for all asylum seekers, because these were the average times of examining asylum applications. Attraction factors represented by the very few traces of the irregulars and the very few returns; attraction factors represented by NGOs, five Germans sprung up like mushrooms in the last quarter of 2016, who pampered you of the Democratic Party and tried to defend until the last. 11.15 a.m. (Follow Arrigoni). You have created a system, often rotten, thanks to which have been favored economic interests of cooperatives and consortia, of failed hoteliers who have jumped into the business of the reception: a system of which often has taken advantage of organized crime, with characters like Salvatore Buzzi in the capital Mafia, or has operated in lawlessness, like the CARA of Mineo or as in Macerata, where the GUS, now in trial for tax evasion, had hoarded in the Province all the services of the reception. Well, you PD to the government have failed especially here, in the bad management of immigration, which has punctually occurred to be your Achilles heel. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Instead of the people, you preferred to ally with the philanthropists, with the globalists at Soros, following fallacy models inspired by liquid society. You were arrogant, but, at the same time, superficial, not curing the huge problem that exploded in your hand, until, at a certain point, your narrative collapsed: for years you tried to make believe that everyone ran away from wars and persecution, when the data, very clear, said exactly the opposite; irresponsibly you opened the doors of the country to many, too many irregular and illegal, creating economic, social and, above all, security problems in the country, also for the risk of Islamic terrorism. How many public squares and gardens of the cities are increasingly off limits and in a state of degradation? How many train stations and areas in schools are increasingly the target of drug dealers and violent baby gangs; how many invectives and threats to controllers on trains and buses? How many acts of violence among the same migrant communities, but above all against women? With the operational plan of the Triton operation of October 2014 you have also sold our country, risking making it the refugee camp of Europe. With the Triton plan, which you kept secret for three years in Parliament [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] You have accepted that all migrants rescued at sea, even by foreign ships, military ships or NGOs, of the countries participating in the operation should be brought to Italy, probably in exchange for a zero comma of margin of economic flexibility. That's why on March 4th you were rejected by the Italians. That's why this decree-law was long awaited, other than answers to fears! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] In a situation almost out of control, it was absolutely necessary to intervene, to give answers to citizens, introducing in the country policies and new rules based on rigor and legality and, consequently, on deterrent, able to discourage departures and therefore deaths in the Mediterranean, which, moreover, in five years have risen to over 15,000. The measures provided for in the decree are different and the rapporteur, Mr Borghesi and Mrs Saponara have well illustrated them. I would just like to mention those introduced in the Commission, with regard to Article 7-a, which introduces the list of safe countries of origin and the institute of the obvious unfoundedness of the application for international protection. These are not legal inventions, but measures provided for in the directive... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish it, Senator. Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). I had seven minutes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. They've passed. Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). These are measures for which we have been called upon by Europe in the past. This allows to reject immediately the application for asylum and therefore to remedy the location in the reception system of the so-called refugee, if the same comes from a safe country. In conclusion, we are moving from words to deeds, other than manifesto, colleagues Mirabelli and Bressa, and the facts are righting Matteo Salvini's action and sweeping away the controversy. At 31 October, 22,000 landings were registered, 80 percent less than in the same period of 2017. Attention, however: 61 percent of these occurred in the first five months of the year, i.e. before the establishment of this Government. The effects are already affecting, with the collapse of the presences in the host system, which at 31 October dropped to 146,000, a sharp decrease that allows to reduce the costs on an annual basis of about half a billion. These are savings that, as promised, will be used to hire 8,000 new police officers. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Get it done. Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). We are not erecting walls, but, in addition to giving the country answers to security requests, we are seriously throwing bridges of adequate width to allow transit and welcome in our country those who really need. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] I'm not done, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u47	Yes, but you must conclude, Senator Arrigoni.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u48	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Not young aitanti, equipped with headphones, always to stand up and often to delinquere. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Minister Salvini, the Lega-Salvini Premier Group... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u49	Please finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u50	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). ... exhorts her to move forward with determination. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u51	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u52	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important measure for us, because for the entire centre-right, and therefore also for Forza Italia in particular, it has been a historic battle during the long years in which we have conducted the so-called battles characterizing the centre-right. It has always been, therefore, in our programmes as a point for us of great attention, both with regard to the security of citizens on the one hand, and with reference to the Forces of Order and therefore to implementation, to their protection, to their salaries, on the other. For us, therefore, this is a bill that deals with those values that are defined as non-negotiable and we regret that certain points, in a particular way, which are clearly the result of a somewhat downward mediation between the forces of government, are not exactly excellent from the point of view of those who have the eye, as I said, of center-right. I am referring to the issues of defence, the autonomy of the mayors, and all the issues that pertain to Islamic fundamentalism. These are points that my colleagues, on which both the Parent Company and my Group and my party have already made clear their views. I would like to draw attention to a specific issue, which has been the subject of amendments and which concerns the aspect of justice. You know that in this decree-law you have not been able to touch everything about speeding up proceedings in court. I fully agree with what Mr Arrigoni said about the fact that we find presences on the right and on the left: we find them in the trains, in the emergency and I would like to add that we find them in the courts because they dangle, very often, in the waiting times of the chamber rite. Well, among the many mistakes that we blame the Democratic Party and all that we conceive as the left, there is also the choice, in our opinion, to provide a chamber rite for judicial appeals, because the chamber rite involves the use of togati judges; even the CSM can give extraordinary help, that is to send a magistrate for the issues of immigrants, but if a citizen instead has to wait for a separation or an injunctive decree, this possibility does not have it. That is why we asked for special attention to be paid to this issue and to the relevant amendments. We will return to the point, because it is a practical point: those who live in justice because unfortunately there is a civil case, or because the practice as a legal operator knows very well this type of problem. The second question I put is the question of legal expenses. I understand why the settlement of legal aid has obviously been eliminated, but we also know what the problem is: the problem is that often immigrants are taken, protected by left-wing associations and brought straight to court to say what they have to say. It is not so much, then, to hit legal fees - we will talk about it again, because I think that there is not much chance of interacting with justice, at least at this stage - but it is a matter that must be resolved absolutely because it is not decent for the efficiency of the courts and of justice. I hope that the sensitivity which the PD has never had on these issues and which has always characterized, on the other hand, the friends of the centre-right can be confirmed in the following. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator La Pietra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, representatives of the Government, the measure we are debating today in this House, after the non-painful passage in the Commission, is a text which tries to change its course on security, trying to get out of the left-wing marsh, but which, in our opinion, does not sink enough into the determination of its actions. A text too soft, the result of a downward compromise between the League and the Movimento 5 Stars. Brothers of Italy presented a package of amendments aimed at improving the decree-law and which served to give greater security to Italians. We therefore remained grounded when about fifteen of our amendments were declared inadmissible because they were found not to be relevant to the matter. Let us turn here to the President of the Senate, President Casellati, so that he can intervene and clarify whether there are limits - and what they are - on the discretion of a President of the Commission in determining which amendments may or may not be declared inadmissible. Not on this subject, according to the President of the Commission and rapporteur, is it to discuss amendments which included the introduction of the crime of Islamic fundamentalism, self-defense, flagrant arrest, the abolition of the crime of torture, chemical castration for paedophiles and rapists, the eviction of nomadic camps and abusive settlements. Maybe they're out of sneakers! If we don't talk about this in a security decree, what are we talking about? Our impression is that they have been declared not worthy of discussion for a purely political assessment. With regard to the amendments which have received a negative opinion from the Budget Commission, here too we have had the clear feeling that the opinion has been given hastily and imaginatively, depending on the signatories of the amendment, trying to put a further obstacle to the discussion of our amendments. It is interesting, for example, that the amendment on the removal of the Roma camps was first declared inadmissible and then sent to the Budget Commission as a text two, where it received a favourable opinion. Our demands for the abolition of so-called humanitarian protection, not just in words, have been rejected. The lifting of international protection for crimes of exploitation of prostitution and incitement to criminals has been rejected. Our proposal to strengthen the operation of safe roads was rejected, as was the creation of special sections in the courts to combat the Nigerian and Chinese mafia or to provide for measures in favour of the police forces. Many, too many amendments that could improve this law have been rejected. The Italians are asking for more security. To this will is added, in our opinion, also the original sin of the birth of this decree-law. The security decree is born weak, because it is the result of the sum of three measures: immigration, security and agency. Instead of presenting three different decree-laws, the Government preferred to focus on a single heavier and more impactful measure, but which in fact addresses in a hasty and superficial way, lightening the three topics under discussion, thus mediating between the movementst and sinister souls of the Movimento 5 Stars and the most fundamentalist soul of the League, operation, apparently, not fully successful. In this House today there is not only a decree-law under discussion, but there are two visions of how we want to manage the heavy phenomenon of immigration and how we think we can give more security to our citizens, two visions that stand across, both within the majority of the government and in the opposition forces. The Government, through the presentation of the decree-law on immigration and security, tries to put in place a change of pace, but retained by a part of the majority, which forces it to do so in an unclear and incomplete way. In fact, there are many gaps that make this text insufficient to ensure true security for Italians. So, dear colleagues of the League, dear Minister Salvini, with this bill you could not run as you had to, but you could only move a few steps. Too bad: you could and you had to have more courage. In the Commission I heard the senators of the center-left accuse the majority of the fact that, by converting this decree-law, hundreds of thousands of people would be allowed to enter the state of hiding. But, ladies and gentlemen, you have not yet understood, indeed, most likely pretend not to understand that it was you, in the last five years, who institutionalized lawlessness, transforming illegal immigration into humanitarian reception. In the last five years you have rinsed your mouth with words such as humanity, solidarity and integration. Look at the numbers of who was taken in. Very few who come from war zones, in fact few refugees, minors or women. Many, on the other hand, are looking for jobs, so-called economic immigrants. Many young balds, who go up on the boats because they know perfectly that they will be collected at sea, accompanied and then cared for and fed. And if anything, after having eaten and slept at our expense, in the best cases they do not seek a job, but they start dealing drugs in our parks and gardens and, in the worst, they are protagonists of real tragedies: they rape and kill our girls. You've been thinking more about civil rights than social rights. In this way, you have made our citizens poorer and insecure. You spend more than a thousand euros on an immigrant and less than half on a social pensioner. This is the product of left-wing politics. And I want to remember that, instead, the regular immigrants, the real ones, those who would like to come to our country to work honestly according to the rules and the regular channels, are blocked. In the Commission, and I address the members of the Government, you have also rejected our request to facilitate entry into our country to people of Italian origin. What is then, for you, the meaning of the slogan: "Prima gli italiani"? It can't be just an election slogan. I conclude, with the hope that the amendments tabled by Brothers of Italy for the debate in this House, which have only the objective of making this nation safer, for all, not only for Italians but for all those who are lucky enough to live in this wonderful country, can be judged for what they are and that there will be a different assessment than the one we had in the Commission. That's if you have the courage to discuss them. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u54	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barbaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the conversion into law of the Security Decree gives this Parliament the burden and responsibility of regulatory action that the country really needs. If the State fails to guarantee the security of its citizens, it cannot guarantee other rights. A society that does not protect against violence, abuse, crime, fanaticism and terrorism, in fact, is not a free society. The balance between freedom and security is one of the most difficult tasks entrusted to the legislator, since the second, necessary to guarantee the first, if it uses bland measures does not achieve its purpose, if it becomes excessive or oppressive it becomes a limit to individual freedom. It is therefore necessary to identify the right dose of safety to be administered to the civil context, so that orderly living guarantees maximum freedom for all without it causing harm to other individuals or, in general, to the community. Having said that, in a careful examination of all the interests at stake, we share in particular the choice to extend to the urban and civil context an institute such as that of Daspus, born as a result of the episodes of violence related to sporting events. A reasonable and appropriate measure, shared by a large part of the public opinion, which has too often been forced to complain about the preventive ineffectiveness of public security measures. But in the decree there are also other references to the world of sport. Thanks to the amendment tabled and approved in the Commission by my fellow Members, Mr Pirovano, Mr Saponara, Mr Calderoli and Mr Agussori, an important and significant innovation is introduced, of great political significance. The safety costs resulting from the organisation of football matches, which are borne by sports clubs, are raised: from a symbolic one per cent to a minimum contribution, resulting from the revenue from football matches, of 5%; from a maximum contribution of 3% to a maximum contribution of 10%. It is not only an obvious and already legitimate intention to contain public spending; we are faced with a first and decisive step to call the world of football to the assumption of its responsibilities, responsibility to the enthusiasts who want to return to live serenely healthy days of sports leisure; responsibility and respect for the Forces of order, on whose shoulders a logistical and human commitment is not indifferent. The figures are impressive: 50 million euros per year charged to the State to ensure security in the stadiums; 1,600 injured agents in the last decade; 165,000 agents employed only in 2017. In the face of all this, a clear paradox: Italy is the only country in the world that finances its Federcalcio through the CONI, with 30 million euros per year. I could open another chapter, which is not technically connected but which I would like to leave on the record: we could also talk about the costs of road costs for the municipalities for each of the football matches. Here again we are talking about millions and millions of euros, but we will return to another location and another context. Finally, speaking of responsibility, there is the most important responsibility, that of the world of sport, everything, especially the basic one, to which the resources that could be allocated to it are removed. [[Recalls of the President]] Mr President, have I finished my time yet? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have one more minute. I must speed up, then, because obviously I wasted time on the introductory part. However, I would ask the Presidency to be able to attach the full text of my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. BARBARO (L-SP-PSd'Az). With regard to the commercial drift that the world of football has undergone over the years, which has made it more and more business and less sport, a reflection should be opened, towards a precise responsibility that is that of the Democratic Party, which has introduced within our sports system a principle that has undermined it, that is the possibility to pursue the profit. Beyond the responsibilities, we wonder why we should remain inert in the face of a drift, which is now evident and manifest, and which feeds currents of thought that would want to eliminate at the root sports phenomena not considered profitable for the system, such as Chievo Verona, Sassuolo, Empoli or Frosinone. Not to mention the will, now manifest, to impoverish the national football scene, creating a European Super League. Then let the measure come to our examination, especially if it can be preparatory to the return of a football heritage of all and not of the chosen few. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]] 11:38 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u56	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say that when we talk about security and immigration, there is always Brothers of Italy, even when, as in this case, we are talking about a downward compromise, as Mr La Pietra, who preceded me earlier, has already explained. A compromise to the bottom to please the leftmost wing of the Movimento 5 Stars. Of the center-right program, which the League has also signed, in the security decree to our examination, dear colleagues of the League, survives very little. For example, there is no initiative against Islamic fundamentalism. You rejected the amendment of Brothers of Italy who asked to consider it a crime to exalt in Italy, perhaps from the pulpits of some mosque or some false mosque disguised as a cultural center, the laws of other countries in which it is considered a crime punished with the death penalty apostasy, blasphemy, adultery or even witchcraft (I do not know what this can mean in the mind of those in those countries who decided to punish as a crime also this strange practice). You have refused to include in the crimes that must lead to the revocation or refusal of international protection the incitement to criminals and the apology of crime, forgetting that many imams constantly preach the holy war from the pulpits of a mosque. Again, you refused to take any action to finally resolve the serious emergency of Roma camps and abusive settlements in general. You refused to accept our proposal to carry out a census of all abusive settlements and to set a deadline by 2019 for these abusive settlements to finally be closed. You refused to accept our proposal to extend the operation called safe roads also to the supervision of these settlements until they are closed; indeed, in the text under consideration you have further limited the possibility of recourse to our military to ensure the safety of Italians, one of the initiatives most appreciated by Italian public opinion, because our fellow citizens have seen their safety a little less precarious thanks to thousands of military, highly professional, who have guaranteed the garrison of sensitive sites, but also a patrol work that certainly improved the safety conditions of our roads. You've also taken away this possibility of patrol. I mean, there would be a lot to say, but the times are the ones that have been assigned to us, so I start to conclude. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to security and illegal immigration, it should be noted that our roads are full of hundreds of thousands of immigrants you promised to send home, but not one has been sent home; boats continue to arrive, they are less but continue to arrive, and they add up to the at least 600,000 irregular immigrants that you should have started repatriating and that you are not repatriating. These immigrants come to our country for criminals, to increase the ranks of drug dealers and those who exploit prostitution, especially child prostitution, and come from countries other than those from which they come throughout the rest of Europe. In Europe the majority of those who ask for protection are Afghans, Iraqis and Syrians; in Italy the majority of those who ask for protection comes from Africa, in particular from the sub-Saharan countries, Morocco, Egypt, Nigeria, Gambia and Mali, which are not really countries where there are armed conflicts in progress and are not the scene of war. They come because the Nigerian mafia organizes their arrival here: they arrive today and tomorrow they are already dealing. I shall conclude by saying that the Government is doing absolutely nothing about this, and indeed ignores it in what it insists on calling a security decree. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u58	She is registered to speak Senator Evangelista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we would never have liked the news to give us the opportunity to reflect on the validity of Decree-Law No 113 of 2018, which we are about to convert into law today. Unfortunately, however, we are called to do so, because we are all morally responsible for the brutal sexual violence and the killing of a 16-year-old girl, to whom violent death denied the possibility of ransom from an unjust life. Public opinion is shaken and even talking about it in this House is not easy, but it is necessary, because clearly there is a security alarm in our society and there is a need to give concrete answers to the problems arising from the phenomenon of irregular immigration, with clear, firm and effective interventions. We know, as far as the investigations are still under way, that four immigrants have been arrested without proper documents, including the recipient of an expulsion order and another with a humanitarian residence permit expired in 2014. It is stated in the GIP order that they are all irregular in the national territory with respect to which they do not have any kind of family and work ties, but are engaged in dealing. Therefore, in the face of this heinous crime and the other equally gruesome crimes that preceded it and that saw women raped by illegal immigrants even in reception centres, we welcome the provision of Decree-Law No 113 of 2018, which, with a new logic, aimed at rationalising the immigration system, eliminates the reference to humanitarian reasons, typicalizes the special cases in which a temporary residence permit of annual duration is granted, which however allows the registration in the register provided for the placement of workers, access to welfare services, study, to the carrying out of subordinate and autonomous work, with the possibility, on expiry, of the conversion to residence permit for reasons of work or residence permit for study. So I don't know exactly what decree-law Senator Mirabelli read. In particular, the following types of special cases of residence permit have been typical for humanitarian needs: an exceptional condition of health; to be victims of violence or serious exploitation; to be victims of domestic violence; a situation of contingent and exceptional natural disaster in the country of origin; to have carried out acts of particular civil value. Let us remember a very important fact: a quarter of asylum applications have been concluded in recent years with the release of the permit for humanitarian reasons. The rules which extend the number of offences whose commission determines, in the event of a final conviction, the refusal or withdrawal of international protection, contained in Article 7 of the measure in question, are also right. These are criminal cases of particular social alarm, such as sexual violence, production, trafficking and detention for non-personal use of drugs - who knows, if these rules had already been approved, if that young life would have been spared - robbery and extortion: they are all crimes already considered relevant, which today allow the withdrawal of refugee status or subsidiary protection even in the cases not aggravated. I still mention crimes of violence or threat to an officer, serious and serious personal injury to a public official at sporting events, the crime of mutilation of female genital organs, as well as crimes of theft and theft at home aggravated by the port of arms or narcotics. Also important is the rule that introduces a list-list mechanism of safe countries of origin, which will have to be prepared periodically by decree of the Ministries of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Justice and the Interior, for the granting of the international protection permit, with an accelerated procedure. There is also Article 10, which regulates the possibility that the applicant for recognition of international protection is subject to criminal proceedings for one of those offences for which a longer duration of preliminary investigations is allowed or has been convicted for the same offences even by non-final judgment. In such cases, the competent territorial commission shall immediately arrange for the hearing of the person concerned and shall immediately take a decision and only in the event of rejection of the application and even pending an appeal against the decision of the committee, the applicant shall be obliged to leave the national territory immediately. Returns for which, Senator Mirabelli, are provided the right covers. However, it is without prejudice to the case where the Territorial Commission is aware of the existence of serious humanitarian reasons, where the quaestor may issue a residence permit. All of this is in line with the most recent Community case law, which constantly recalls Article 17 of Directive 2011/95/EU, which allows the exclusion of a person from subsidiary protection status if there are grounds for believing that he has committed a serious crime. No dismantling of the SPRARs, which are only rationalised. In addition, social cooperatives will be more closely monitored. I should like to end by reminding the House that the system of managing migratory flows carried out by the previous Government has been resoundingly failed, for which their politicians have lost all credibility vis-à-vis the citizens. Oppositions are good at stating democratic and constitutional principles, but much less good at implementing concrete actions in favour of citizens, and that is why they have lost the elections. For these reasons, the Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars will vote in favour of this measure, I hope all compact and without individualism. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] The measure is in fact absolutely capable of countering the need to safeguard individual rights with the need for security of public order. I thank the whole House. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u60	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u61	Mr President, I would like to remind some of the abusive guardians of our Constitution - and at the same time reassure them - that the measure arrives in the Chamber with the signature of the President of the Republic, so after having successfully passed the so-called constitutional scrutiny. Therefore, I would ask them to enter into the merits of the decree-law and save us pantomime on possible rips with the fundamental principles of our fundamental Charter. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In our opinion, Italy had and has much, much need of this measure, because it puts order in the country, it clears the rules and offers tools to the institutions to guarantee security to the Italians, in the interest of all the citizens. An important point, along which the measure unfolds, concerns the fight against mafia crime and it is not by chance that the measure arrives at the examination of the Assembly after the adoption of the law on the vote of political exchange-mafia, demonstrating that this Government and the Minister of the Interior want to fight the mafia concretely, preventing it from insinuating itself in the institutions and that it can adopt those attitudes that have always been very good at assuming, not always finding the right struggle and the right strength on the part of the State. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] What does the so-called Salvini decree provide? First of all, it strengthens the National Agency for the administration and destination of assets seized and confiscated from organized crime, expanding the audience of those who can participate in the competitions and purchase goods, also extending the audience of goods that can be taken away from the mafia, as well as providing for a dislocation of the Agency more ramified on the national territory. The measure also provides for a more effective circularity of information between the institutions, so that everyone knows everything. For example, it is expected that the quaestor and the Anti-Mafia Investigation Directorate will be informed not only of the irrevocable sentences of conviction, but also of the ablation and restrictive measures. In addition, it is envisaged that a private individual who objects to the measures of a capital nature in the appeal may also be ordered to pay the costs of the proceedings in the event of partial acceptance of the appeal. The measure also increases the penalties for illegal subcontracting, moving - ladies and gentlemen, be careful - from a sentence of six months to a year to a penalty of one to five years. Important monitoring of relevant procurement is also envisaged, with a communication to the prefect, as well as measures regarding municipalities. And here I would also like to speak as a mayor, not only as a senator, compared to some of the speeches that preceded me: with these forecasts the mayors do not feel at all Commissariats in total, they do not feel at all deprived of their powers, but they feel reassured. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I am referring to the forecast of the appointment of a commissioner ad acta even where there are no conditions for the dissolution of the city council, but there are serious irregularities that make us evoke or, in any case, make us fear that the path in which the city has crept is anything but reassuring. The decree-law also provides for an increase of resources for commissions that are appointed in municipalities dissolved for mafia. Let us now come to the principles on which this decree-law is supported and on which the political action of the League and this Government is supported: legality. Legality is a value, it is true, but it is not enough to decline it as value and it is not enough to relegate it into a beautiful book of poems. It is necessary for legality not only to be preached, as many have done for so long, but to be practiced. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] The added value of this decree-law is right here, it is at the point where it implements a legality that Italians need and that Italians ask for daily. Then I would like to make another reflection on the combination of security and freedom, on which the former Minister Minniti has said sad things, of resounding things. By the way, I invite the Democratic Party to clarify, because Minniti says there is too much security and you say there is nothing in terms of security in this decree-law. And what does Minniti say? He says Salvini wants to trade security for freedom. Well, I'm glad you said that, because you point out the difference between us and them. In fact, it is not a question of exchanging security with freedom, but it is a question of asserting a principle according to which a country is more secure and freer. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] This is the most important objective that aims to achieve this decree-law. In fact, if a girl can quietly retire late in the evening, the country is safer and freer; if a child can stay quietly in a playground with parents or maybe with friends, the country is safer and freer; if the drug dealers of death disappear, for example, in front of schools, the country is freer and safer. To conclude, I want to say, considering that we interpret the thought of all the colleagues of the League, that we do not support this measure out of party duty, but we support it with pride, because it has the strong hand of a Minister who does what he promises and has the sharing of a Government that does what he promises. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] There will be our support, also because we pass, as Minister Salvini taught us, from words to facts and also because finally one thing is clarified in Italy, after a dark and sad shadow has colored this aspect on the left side: the Forces of Order are on the good side of the country and not on the bad side of the country. The bad guys are somewhere else. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u62	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if it were appropriate to qualify a legislative act as some serious behavioral disorders of people sometimes qualify me as a self-injury measure, as in the case of those who cut themselves for mental disorders. This is a masochist and self-harmful decree-law, which in its unfolding contradicts exactly the title it has given itself. This is not a decree-law for security, this is a decree that will increase lawlessness and therefore insecurity. Dear colleagues, do we agree that there are about 500,000 irregulars in our country? This cannot be denied. In a robust campaign effort, the current Minister of the Interior said: We will expel them all. After the election, passing a moment to his ministry, between demonstrations, someone must have explained to him that these 500,000 irregulars cannot be expelled. And they cannot be expelled because they serve bilateral reception agreements from the countries of origin. Now, we have four of these agreements, with Tunisia, Morocco, Egypt (old and inadequate) and Nigeria, and the expulsions in 2017 were 6,000. Are we or do we not agree, as the starting date, that these 500,000 cannot be expelled? Tell me how you want to do it. Even the evacuation of Dunkerque has not evacuated 500,000 people, it has stopped at 250,000. If these are the irregulars in our country, for the most diverse and diverse reasons, what do you want to do with this army of irregulars? This decree-law increases the army of irregulars. And you know why? Because ending up with the SPRAR experience increases irregulars. The official data tell us that in the SPRAR, therefore in the widespread reception of the various municipalities, 35,000 people are started today. Not the 8,000 municipalities (which we would have already solved) participate in this project, but only 1,200, if I have read correctly. Of these other 500,000, adding the 35,000 from SPRAR and those coming, what do you want to do, for security? Locking them up in the big centers, as has already been done, which have proved to be bearers of corruption and crime? You know, like me, the great centers - alas - of Foggia, of Castel Volturno or of San Ferdinando, those that had promised to dissolve. Of these 500,000, who do not have documents in order, to which you also remove the humanitarian protection - which was given by the quaestor or the prefect (you know, for example, that in Turin there was a great demand from one hundred entrepreneurs, who asked for humanitarian assistance for people who had already done the training from them and on whom they had invested and the quaestor granted it) - of these 500,000 you explain to me what you want to do? These 500,000 without papers, without humanitarian protection, to survive, in your opinion, what do they do? They work in black, even in yours and in our homes, in yours and in our yards, in yours and in our fields. And, when they do not, they collide with micro-criminality or prostitution; a crime in which they are normally manoval, because the great crime is managed by Italian, very Italian. So, not for who knows what goodness, but for the good governance of a phenomenon, whether we like it or not, is present among us, we have suggested legal channels of entry, hypothesis of legalization. Beware, dear friends of the League - you know - in the years 2000 it was you, the Government with Forza Italia, who made the two biggest sanatories in Europe [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Petris),]] regularizing 900,000 people, because you knew then - as you know now - that legalizing people's security, economy and even civil coexistence. Mr Pucciarelli (L-SP-PSd'Az). What are you talking about? BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). In conclusion, this self-harmful decree-law, masochist and unnecessarily cruel towards them and towards us, for the truth, is truly the result of an atmosphere nourished by art, an atmosphere of fear and intolerance. If you go to see the data, there has been no increase in crime, particularly in murders. I'm talking about figures that I don't make up for sure, because they're data from the Ministry of Justice. This climate of intolerance is now seen on trains, buses, public places, bars; by now we say: "Go home, dirty nigger" has become normal, normal. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and Senator De Petris]] But how is that possible? He arrived at the kindergartens as pervasive as he is: the four-year-old girl who is insulted by her Italian friends because she has dark skin should put you on the alert and on the attention of where you are taking this country. [[Comments from FI-BP, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups.]] That said, answer one question: what do you want to do with the 500,000 irregulars in our country? And don't tell me anymore that you send them back, because you know it's not possible. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]] Mr Pucciarelli (L-SP-PSd'Az). What are you talking about? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Iannone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we see the acts of racism, and we do not see the violence, the rape, the behaviour that thousands of immigrants are putting in place. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups),]] in the indifference of a political part that evidently wants to accredit a cultural and political model that has led Italy to disaster. BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). We Italians also put them in place, and not only those with black skin! Shame on you, shame on you, shame on you! [[Comments from Senator Fedeli.]] Precisely for this reason, gentlemen of the Government, Grillo-Legist majority, we would have expected a courageous measure, that would really put hand to the problem of security and be no more than a manifesto compared to what it really needs. My thoughts go first of all to our men in uniform, who wait for the cancellation of a horrendous law with a very suggestive title - "Introduction of the crime of torture in the Italian order" - who not only tied their hands, but also offended their role - there are thousands of people involved - who carry out every day really defending our security [[Applause from the FdI Group),]] That of the citizens who need it most: men who do their work not only for their salary because, compared to the risk of life that they run, there is no salary that they keep. Brothers of Italy is and will always be with our women and our men in uniform, who for us represent the best story of our country; moreover, there was not even a need, because from the code Rocco, for those who belong to the Forces of order and error there is a greater punishment. This law which the left wanted in the last parliamentary term is not deleted by the security decree under consideration. We expected that there would be parliamentary space to make some adjustments and improvements, having had a truly constructive approach to your measure. As my colleagues Mr La Pietra and Mr Balboni have said, our hope has fallen, as the work in the Commission took place, with the declaration of inadmissibility of our amendments, which, moreover, represent historical battles of the right and are concretized in draft laws at the disposal of the logic of our political role, understood as at the service of our homeland. We are incredibly witnessing the lack of increased penalties for crimes against public officials, which are increasingly being subjected to violence and threat. Those who represent the State must have their own sacredness; those who do their work worthily, representing the whole set of rules of the State, must be protected and safeguarded. There is no anti-blackblock rule for misrepresentation in public demonstrations. We expected a rule - as was also announced by Minister Salvini, even if there was a draft law before his announcement - that would restore the crime of obscene acts in a public place, because this is the only nation in which you risk jail for surmounted crimes of opinion and instead there is only a fine for those who commit obscene acts in a public place. We hope that the question of confidence on the measure will not be raised and there will still be a parliamentary space to make a real security decree that will give a concrete response to the Italians. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u65	Senator Nisini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the measure that we are converting into law today marks the end of a structured system for one single purpose: to make migration a business. The measure under discussion in this House today puts an end to a deviant system, which benefited from the coexistence in our system of two different types of instruments of international protection: the first of European origin and the second of internal origin, consisting of those measures issued for no better specified humanitarian reasons, which should have been an exception to be applied in very particular cases. Precisely through this second instrument it has been possible to carry out a mass emission of humanitarian permits that has led - as the now sadly consolidated data of recent years confirm - to an increasing disproportion between the recognition of international protection regulated at European level and the number of releases of residence permits for humanitarian reasons; a practice dictated by the interest to ensure the longest possible permanence of immigrants who landed many, thanks - alas - to the help of NGOs and other traffickers, who have found in the Mediterranean basin their valley of gold. These were immigrants who, in the vast majority, were deprived of the requirements to be able to aspire to the release of the permits provided for by the international discipline, but who, thanks to the distorted use that has been made of the instruments provided by national law, have been able to remain and prosper the associations engaged in the system of reception. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] The new discipline provides for a precise identification of the hypotheses in which protection can be recognized, thus sanctioning the end of that system of false moralism and obvious economic opportunism that has so severely affected the social fabric of our communities, while ensuring effective and effective protection for those who really have the right and need to do so. International protection must only be granted to those who are truly entitled to it. It is also disputed that the measure dismissed by the Government and Minister Salvini has the effect of producing a large number of irregulars. Nothing more false: the intention is to overcome hypocrisy through the granting of measures only for those entitled to it. The reception system is a complex system, made up of several phases and now clear timings. It is known from the technical reports of the Ministry that it takes on average five months for the completion of the procedures necessary to ascertain the identity and nationality of the irregulars and the acquisition of the travel documents necessary for the return. With Law No. 161 of 2014, detention was lowered to the limit of no more than ninety days, making it impossible to proceed to the effective repatriation of irregular foreigners: a situation that, as well as predictable, was also largely circumventable, but that PD governments preferred to manage by issuing humanitarian permits cascade to anyone who applied for it [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] I call on Senator Bonino to tell her that, in 2000, we dealt with caregivers and colfs; today, with this measure, we are talking about dealers, not caretakers. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] This is a bluff at the expense of Italians, moreover expensive, since then the system was completed with the reception projects better known as SPRAR (to be understood, those of the 35 euros per day in favor of the coops and NGOs, undisputed leaders of this munificent business): a system wisely regulated to ensure a long stay by the wider number of subjects, greeted at the expense of the citizens. The forecast of an extension to one hundred and eighty days of the maximum period of detention in detention centres for returnees guarantees instead of carrying out the entire procedure necessary to verify the identity, nationality and the requirement for applicants for international protection, without running the risk of losing contact with persons who until now, unnecessarily decorating the ninety expected days, were wisely losing their tracks. It is therefore an instrument that is truly capable of distinguishing between having and not having the right, providing appropriate protection and appropriate measures for the former and immediate rejection for the latter, but not only. The system in force so far allowed de facto subjects who had been guilty of serious crimes to continue their undisturbed raids. Everything changes with the security decree: a norm of common sense that provides for the immediate rejection of those who, while declaring to come to Italy to escape wars, persecutions and famines, in reality delinque and uses our guarantee system to pursue manifestly illegal purposes. If it is true, in fact, that an offence committed by an Italian or an asylum seeker has the same disvalue in itself, it is equally true that, if a criminal is a person who is asking for hospitality and protection, then it is clear that this must be sent back with the guarantee that he can no longer return. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] It is the duty of the State to ensure its citizens from the risk of infiltration of individuals committed to all kinds of crime. This measure is wide-ranging and regulates various security aspects, including: the provision, experimentally, to the local police of weapons with electrical impulses; measures for the strengthening and security of our prison structures; modification of the anti-mafia code; prohibition of the execution of house arrests in occupied buildings and much more. For all the reasons analysed so far, it is therefore a measure that must be converted into law in order to finally restore common sense and defence of national security, reaffirming concepts such as legality, sovereignty and security, which the previous Governments had willingly sacrificed on the altar of the god money. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u67	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education (Copernico-Pasoli) in Verona, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u68	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u69	Mr President, I would like to pay tribute to the members of the Government and to all my colleagues. With the members of the government I would try to start with a joke: take all 500,000, 400,000, then ask for 5% overtaking Europe and they will give it to you, as they did for the financials of previous years. I think that on these issues really in the Senate - as I believe happens also in the House and in part of Italian society - there is a big difference with the left (PD and related), for me almost anthropological. We cannot continue to insist on encouraging, pervoking the cause of immigration at all costs. Integration is a dream: go to Prato, go to via Sarpi in Milan, go to the city ghettos. Maybe it's mutual, but to make it you really have to be in two; you have to have some common idea about the family, the system of life and how to spend Sunday, instead of being in some houses and places to dream of throwing down and taking out the Italians. That's the truth. Some say - even the President of INPS says so - that they will pay us the pension, but go see the real INPS accounts and you will see that they do not pay anything: they do not pay the INPS, they do not pay the room rights, they do not pay the mortgages. In my country, the houses that are for sale at auction are all non-EU countries to which the banks have granted loans with our money, with my mother's money that has set aside something to pay for the funeral. [[Applause from Senator Tiraboschi.]] In the state budget it is indicated that they cost us five billion; I hope that the law of stability will indicate a smaller figure; more social state, more police and courts. But above all - in my opinion - they lead to the crumbling of the principles of a society that is ours and that, in the sense of Benedetto Croce, cannot but be Christian, that wants to be safe and quiet and also wants to seek happiness by copying a little 'from America. But where do we live or where does someone in here live? Where are you going on Sundays? What do citizens tell you about fairs, parties? "We can't do that anymore," "Don't you see the non-EUs who live separately?" But where do you live? Who do you hear? Our citizens are not quiet in their homes. Is it just the Italian underworld? No, Desirée didn't kill herself statistically. Desirée is one of the cases where certain people are involved. And then I say that the blockade of the landings that took place this summer meant that the tam tam of the forest said not to go to Italy anymore because it is no longer now. And then managing this situation of irregulars by showing that it is no longer will perhaps give results and the 500,000 or 400,000 mentioned (are more) could decrease, they might change their mind. Of course, making a decree-law of this type was complicated, but I think that it happened - it is a very complex case-law - that the Government and the Minister gave directives, but that the organs of the State (prefectures, police headquarters, police, finance guard, to the last bulwark, to the last peripheral Italian station) knew the situation, that it is not the one that often describes the newspapers, but it is a situation of degradation, and they knew that it was necessary to correct the law, the single text on immigration, the general law with a fundamental amendment that has been made in detail. Maybe there is some mistake - I think there is - and I urge the Government not to think about trusting, but to pay attention to the amendments that have been tabled by the Forza Italia Group and other groups, by the Brothers of Italy in this case, on terrorism. We must then give certainties with regard to penalties and sanctions, make them apply and produce laws that are not interpretable by the Italian courts, which, at times, forget to apply them and make laws. It takes a certain amount of time on the part of the Board of Appeals not to encourage illegality. If in the centers of stay, instead of ninety days, you are one hundred and eighty, it is not inhumane, they are not lagers: they are centers for which you spend public money to keep together, to educate, to maintain and cure the health of those people. That's the truth. The operators don't like to go, except for a few. And then the unpleasant facts that we all know happen. Article 5 prohibits re-entry. So far we have seen that it was enough to change name to re-entry: it was enough to expatriate for a short period and then return and declare to be called in a slightly different way. Articles 6 and 7 also regulate voluntary returns, on which we must insist. There are projects in progress to repatriate those who have learned a trade in Italy and bring other people to our country to do educational internships. We all agree, even if we spend public money. However, the necessary returns must be carried out. It is true, therefore, that, before writing a person's name, who is guaranteed health care, attendance at schools and other rights with the residence permit, you need a brake, because with a public document you can float years and travel all over Italy and go abroad. On safety in general, it is true that sports clubs must be involved in the costs of major events. It is true that begging must be fought. It is true that it is necessary to ensure that there are not too many cars with a foreign license plate, that there are no speed cameras and code rules involved and that, when they are stopped, they threaten the agents. This is what happens on Italian nights. Article 33 deals with the overtime of the police forces, for which there are 38 million. We must try to increase it because it is still too low. A state has the right and the duty to defend itself against crime, terrorism and invasions; otherwise anarchy and chaos reign. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups and Senator De Bertoldi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u70	He is enrolled to speak Senator Bishops. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u71	Mr President, members of the Government, I would like to refer to the important Article 14 of this measure, which deals with citizenship and how to apply for citizenship. It is a right to demand it if certain requirements are met, after certain years and certain values are acquired. With this article we enter into the sense that, if someone carries out acts of terrorism established by a judgment passed in court, Italian citizenship can be revoked at the request of the Minister of the Interior. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] It is therefore something important in three respects. First of all, it is a matter of great juridical civilization because the Homeland is where the heart beats. Where the heart beats there is citizenship. If one asks for Italian citizenship and then carries out an act of terrorism, citizenship must be removed. Secondly, it is a common sense rule by which we tell people who have seen and suffered acts of terrorism that those who have committed them will be deprived of Italian citizenship. Mr Bonino, I am very sorry that you have brought and used the example of children, because I can refer to what happened to Desirée, Pamela and other girls. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FdI Groups.]] [[Senator Bonino's comments.]] She doesn't have to answer me; I listened to her and she doesn't have to scream. You've done this for seven years. We are recovering seven years of your failures in this area. To the friends of Brothers of Italy I say that I am sorry to hear you criticize the forty articles, because we with those forty articles have passed from words to deeds. And we must thank the Minister of the Interior and the Government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u72	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me say that it would be very nice if we in this House, in the face of such an important subject, did not use very painful facts, such as those of Pamela and Desirée. Out of respect for those victims and the pain of family members, at least we are spared the exploitation of those deaths in this House. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Unterberger]] At least that, colleagues. Speaking of propaganda, I mean that in the decree-law under consideration, which for propaganda you have called a security decree and which instead will feed unknown public order problems so far, there is a clear, not creeping, attack on a fundamental principle of the Constitution, which is the right to asylum. And President Mattarella's accompanying letter warns us about this. Yet, in the fundamental principles of the Constitution we should all recognize ourselves, because they are not rhetorical, they are not declaimers. On the other hand, they contain very concrete indications on what needs to be done so that democracy is not reduced to an empty shell, but rather substantial, tangible, capable of fulfilling two vital functions: protection and emancipation. And I am referring to the core of Article 3 of our Charter, which says that it is our job, of all of us in this House, to remove obstacles to the realization of everyone's life plans; to break down the walls of inequalities; to open up our society. Our Constitution and its fundamental principles say this and are a unique body where everything is held together, where every word holds the next. Colleagues, our Constitution was written by those who were exiled, because they were deprived of their rights at home and forced to seek refuge elsewhere. And there is nothing abstract in those fundamental principles; indeed, in every step there is full awareness of the horrors of war, of the horrors of totalitarianism, of the horrors of fascism, of how they threaten especially those who are weaker and how freedom and democracy are fragile conquests, to be preserved and revitalized every day. It's our turn to do it. It is up to us to reaffirm that the quality and strength of a democracy are seen by the rights that we are able to recognize to others, to those we consider "different," to those who are certainly far away, so as not to imagine their existence and living conditions; from how we recognize to those who are foreign those rights, which are not a decrease of ours but, on the contrary, colleagues, are a strengthening of our rights. In fact, we Italians know, for having lived on our skin, that a narrowing of the rights of others will fatally lead to a restriction and a contraction of the rights of all. For this reason, colleagues, especially colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, stop, stop the destruction of this decree-law. This decree is a rubble to our Constitution because, by effectively repealing the residence permit for humanitarian reasons, you hit the right of asylum to death, which is a cornerstone of our juridical civilization, which contains centuries of progress, protection and emancipation; words such as freedom, equality, fraternity, the summa of secular and Catholic culture. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Article 10 of the Constitution, which I want to read, reads as follows: The foreigner who is prevented in his country from exercising the democratic freedoms guaranteed by the Italian Constitution has the right to asylum in the territory of the Republic in accordance with the conditions laid down by law. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is there a prescription that more than this can make us Italians proud, that in recent years, thanks to the Navy and through our laws, we have helped to save thousands of lives? What can make us more proud of this? Nothing. For this reason, woe to us if we deviate from those fundamental principles and if we scar our Constitution. We should have the strength to listen to President Mattarella's words and calls, as should the reference made in our Constitution to Article 10, to international law, to the European Convention on Human Rights, to the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. They are not dusty texts, but anchors of salvation for millions of people threatened everywhere in the world, especially for women, for children, for political dissidents, for those fleeing from wars and calamities, dictatorships, horrors, rapes and tortures. It happened to us Italians only a few decades ago that we had to flee. If only one of our interventions will save a human life and win a denied right, it will be the most important of the interventions we will have made. That is the reason why we, in our amendment, have asked to introduce the Institute of Constitutional Asylum and I would also like to thank Senator De Falco for signing it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We called for the introduction of the Constitutional Asylum Institute to finally give full and explicit legislative implementation to Article 10 of the Constitutional Charter. The decree before us, Mr President, creates a regulatory vacuum that others will fill, which the jurisdiction will fill. And this vacuum in turn creates a lack of government and makes it more difficult to govern immigration and control migratory phenomena. That is why our amendment is urgent and necessary. In view of the cancellation of that humanitarian protection, it certainly serves to respond to the appeal of the Head of State; certainly to respond to the letter of the Constitution; but, ladies and gentlemen, it is above all to respond to our consciences that should speak loudly here and not to be silent. The cancellation of the humanitarian residence permit will prevent work, training, access to the national health service; that is, it will prevent the integration processes that are necessary and make the difference between inclusion and exclusion, between legality and illegality. For this reason, thousands of mayors, of all political colors, are asking very strongly to stop the decree Salvini, because they know that it will generate degradation and abandonment. The estimates speak of 120,000 more irregular migrants in our cities, who will be on the margins to amplify conflicts and fears. The decree-law under consideration is likely to create labour for crime, for drug dealers who infest our cities. I'm not so sure about that. There is no emergency today that justifies the decree, the use of the decree of urgency, much less if trust was placed. That, Mr President, would be further shameful. Instead, we run the risk tomorrow of living the social emergency that the decree has created, the risk of a real social bomb. Perhaps, however, Mr President, that is precisely what we want to create, that is the objective; not to solve the problems, but to feed them in order to then lucare on the fire of fear, hatred and resentment. What perverse motivation can otherwise move you to dismantle the system of protection for asylum seekers and refugees (SPRAR), centred on municipalities, local communities, mayors, their activism, widespread reception and therefore less impacting? This system has ensured positive results not only for integration, which is fundamental, but also for social security and public order, allowing for more widespread control and reducing illegality and the risk of involvement in criminal dynamics. You hit him all this to crowd thousands of people into large government centers, which have already demonstrated their danger to both migrants and Italians. President. - The vote will be taken at the next voting time. It has been said that immigration is synonymous with crime and terrorism. Colleagues, crime and terrorism are synonymous with exclusion and marginality. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The rapes, unfortunately, have no skin color. This decree-law risks favoring criminals and scafists, rather than countering them, because it rejects the very idea of integration, but only integration and inclusion build security and legality. What is lacking today is greater integration and you respond by creating new illegal immigrants. However, those who deny rights, Mr President, give rise to exclusion and illegality. And that goes for all of us. For us the battle for work, for the right to study, for the reconstruction after the earthquake, is the same as for the right to asylum. For us it is a single battle, because democracy is not an a la carte menu and, if we miss a piece of it, we will lose it all and we cannot allow it, to be up to our fathers and to be able to look into the face of the new generations, our children, and have their respect. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u74	Senator Vono is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, today we are debating immigration to ensure protection, reception and integration for immigrants who have the right, and public security to combat terrorism, mafias and also to improve the exchange of information between the law enforcement agencies and magistrates: two issues that are strongly connected and deserving of serious political attention. We have discussed for a long time to find an acceptable balance between human solidarity and the protection of the internal security of the State, coming to share a normative text that, providing for the correct acceptance of those subjects who come to our country in order to find that so much-sighed peace denied in their countries of origin, can allow to maintain in Italy and in Europe a standard of civilization and security that so far too often has been sacrificed and to make possible a true social integration. Regulation of migratory flows is a necessity that cannot be separated anymore and that it is necessary to decide together to restore a civil security state. To introduce a filter able to detect the specific situations for a regular entry into Italy means to ensure true protection for migrants, other than that of international protection and temporary protection for important humanitarian needs; to start responsible paths of integration and restoration of the conditions of return to their territories, as well as to ensure that everyone spends a serene and dignified existence in the national territory. It is necessary to re-establish the possibility of moving peacefully at any time in every corner of our cities, because an unsure country cannot call itself democratic. In a constantly evolving pluralistic society, the state must lay down the rules that guarantee civil living under present conditions. It is not possible to allow the permanence of territorial areas outside the control of the institutions, in which one begins with an excess of tolerance and ends with the rendering of entire neighborhoods off limits to the rest of the population, real free zones occupied by characters dedicated to the most varied activities of bullying and, therefore, criminals. The right of each of us cannot arise from illegitimate situations of origin and for this reason the text we are examining today does not harm any rights, but rather regulates serious situations of irregularity and illegality, in order to allow better and equal conditions of access to the advantages and safeguards already provided by the Constitution and by the laws to every citizen. In concrete terms, the text under discussion is a first step in order to put an end to all those situations of guiltyly aware exemption from compliance with any rule, from the most elementary hygiene and health rules until it allows unpunished real violations of the civil code and the penal code. It is undeniable that the business system that still gravits today around situations of poverty and social emergency, protected by rampant goodness, has produced the uncontrolled spread of human and social degradation to which we now have the duty to repair with a reorder of the legislation, which prevents its permanence and expansion, in order to restore conditions of effective democracy, justice and civilization. Ensuring social order and public security, together with the supportive protection of those fleeing from wars, is for this Government the greatest challenge. We do not want to barricade ourselves behind our convictions, but we want to take up the challenge of keeping those non-negotiable values, such as the defence of the latter, respect for fundamental rights and the growth of human freedom, in addition to political and legal rules. Our challenge goes through a solidarity relationship, but civil and just with everyone and towards everyone, passes through the application of the norms, aimed at guaranteeing honest and dignified work to every citizen or guest in our country, passes through a real integration, which can no longer tolerate ghettos citizens or slums of underpaid and exploited workers. Our challenge is to implement the content of Articles 1 and 3 of our Constitution, in order to be able to live in a country founded on work and not on privileges, in which we are all holders of the same rights and duties; a country with a human face in which, precisely by virtue of the certainty of the law and the certainty of the penalty, it is finally normal to act and live in legality. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u76	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u77	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the first duty of the State is to ensure the safety of citizens. The State has a monopoly on the use of force, except in cases of special contingency, and therefore has a duty to use it to ensure the safety of citizens. Forza Italia has always said this and we put it into practice when we had responsibilities as a Government. That is why we appreciate the parts of this measure that go in that direction: we must return to the steps that have been taken, because too much has been left to the possibility of circumventing the law and the possibility of entering our country without controls. Of course not all are criminals, indeed the majority of those who want to enter our country is not, but it is clear that when there is a deceptive way to enter our country it is likely that people who then do not have good intentions even in their stay in Italy. So we appreciate those parts and have tried to make our contribution, by presenting a series of amendments, which are either directly derived or closely inspired by the program of the center-right, which we have in common with the League, which has important responsibilities of Government, and with Brothers of Italy. Unfortunately, both the drafting and the examination of the measure in the Commission have followed, alas, the principle that first the compromise between the two parties of government comes and then the needs of the citizens come. We believe that these needs come first and then there are political agreements, which we try to make and which, of course, must be done, in many circumstances. In the first place, however, when it comes to citizens' problems, there should be openness to proposals, whether they come from the majority or the opposition. Our proposals have been rejected to a great extent. Following the order in the measure and according to which our amendments were ordered, we asked, for example, that permission be abolished for humanitarian reasons: it is a beautiful thing and a beautiful word, but, being present only in our country, it further exposes us, together with our geographical position, to the flows of illegal immigration. Instead, it was abolished in half and even the permit for natural disasters was introduced. Having said that, this also seems a good thing, but we know well to what abuses such a prediction can expose us. Just think that, unfortunately, in these days our country, to watch the news and to hear the news that we have on all the media, would be half in conditions of natural calamity and therefore, according to this principle, half of the citizens of our country would have the right to go to another country. And yes that Italy, despite the maintenance of the territory is certainly insufficient (we see it painfully these days), is far better than other countries. Therefore, doors are closed in one verse, but others are opened. We have called for the elimination of this abnormal permit for natural disasters. We've been told no. It has been said no to our amendments in order to deflate the dispute with regard to residence permits. Colleagues, the rules are not enough, we must be able to implement them. It is an old story that Manzoni also dealt with by talking about the famous screams, which were severe to the point of being completely ineffective. We have requested that the State intervene in favour of municipalities hosting unaccompanied minors. We have asked for the deduction of tax for the security expenses for the home and to stop the financing to various associations from countries where religious freedom is not practiced and, therefore, with the risk of intolerance being exported. We have proposed intelligent rules for the approval of ministers of worship, to avoid that instead of relying on numerals, as has been invented at the Ministry of the Interior for a few years now, we rely on objective data. We have proposed rules banning the need to cover one's face, both for those who go astray at public events and for those women - to protect them - who are forced to wander with veils. We have proposed to repeal the wrong law on torture and instead introduce rules to protect those who exercise violence against the law enforcement forces during demonstrations. We have proposed extending the ban on access to sports events (Daspo) to people who have already been convicted of behavior such as drug dealing at nightclubs or serious behavior at hospitals and emergency rooms. We have proposed rules against abusive trade in urban areas, counterfeiting and trade in counterfeit materials. Colleagues, a few meters from the Senate almost every night there is an exhibition of counterfeit goods, naturally sold in spite of any rule. We do not know whether this situation depends on the municipality, which has been administered for two and a half years now by the Movimento 5 Stars, or by the national government, which we know is now five months old. It's actually that things aren't going well like this. We have proposed support for attorneys' fees and care for the members of the Forces of Order who are in need, as well as regulations for firemen, firefighters exposed to asbestos and the Forces of Order. All these proposals were rejected, because the logic of majority voting prevailed over that of common sense. This, on the other hand, is what citizens, common sense and effective measures are asking of us, anyone who proposes them, and not the armor and compromises that are odious when they are made by others, while they become beautiful things, to be exalted and to boast of when they do them. Colleagues, there is no boasting not to protect the security of the citizens, which we want to defend always and in any case. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u78	Colleagues, for the organization of our work, I inform you that, in the short way, it has been decided to suspend work around 13:00, and then resume it at 15:00. Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I am well aware that in this House we have a profoundly different view of immigration. I am well aware of the climate in the country and I recognise that there are problems and a strong tension on security issues. Security is a problem that goes beyond the number of crimes, because it also matters how insecurity is perceived. However, I would like to propose a reflection to my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars and to all my colleagues and colleagues. The Minister of the Interior says that there is no refugee emergency, however a decree-law is adopted. We are facing an 80% reduction. Therefore, the question I ask you is: does the decree-law in question govern security and immigration? That's the question you have to answer. It is a manifest decree-law, with some very serious punctual interventions from the point of view of the law; but I will dwell on this later. In fact, this manifesto believes that it must continue to maintain an emergency climate. The question of immigration, like it or not, must be governed and, as many other countries show, on this issue (government or non-government) the game is played. It is true that at the electoral level you can get great consensus on immigration issues, as Orbán does; it is not that you are original, Orbán has already done it before you. However, are you really thinking of governing immigration? No. I want to say this to a fellow senator, who intervened on this decree-law saying that we finally overcome the emergency: no, it is exactly the opposite, we continue to fuel the emergency, even when it is not there. That is the basic problem, our fundamental criticism of your choice. This data will have a consequence, even this objective: it will produce only further illegality, it will produce further illegality. It is in this culture that illegality and illegality become elements of consensus; but not of government. That is the point: elements of consensus yes, but you will not rule, because those people who travel around our cities, those you call doing nothing, are in our cities and - you know well - will continue to be there. Probably they will continue to be there precisely for the choices you make in this decree-law and you will probably do the demonstrations on them; but you are not ruling, you are making a campaign that invests in these elements. Let me give some concrete examples, following what Senator Bonino has already said: 500,000, 600,000 or 400,000, no matter what they are. Let us admit that they are the ones that Minister Salvini says: but how are you dealing with this problem? Part of those people are looking after Italians, part of those people are working in black, part of those people, as in my land, are organized by organized crime or fake cooperatives. By the way, when you make a measure against the fake cooperatives, it will never be too soon, because there they organize the caporalate and use these people not in order, paying them with the pay in the fist and with superexploiting systems. How will you address this issue? It's not clear to me. Don't say it, just as you don't say they're coming back from Germany. You did not sign any agreement; Minister Salvini said they did not come back. No, they're actually on their way back, sent by the German Government and their Interior Minister, they're on their way back. How do you plan to address the issue of immigration if you do not build a policy of alliances and governance of this phenomenon with the whole local system? You realize it by overcoming the SPRAR, which is the only instrument of government of the territory, and building large centers, because in the end you will build large centers, which have already proved their failure. I heard a colleague from the League say proudly: We take away citizenship from those who commit a terrorist offence. The most correct expression is the following, colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars: take away citizenship from those who commit a crime of terrorism with ethnic reasons. In fact, an Italian citizen, who has been a national since his birth and commits a crime of terrorism, remains an Italian citizen. Are you sure this is a security measure? Other than respect for the best legal culture! It is from the French Revolution that we are discussing the subject of citizenship and you are questioning it for a reason - be careful - of propaganda. Do you want to tackle the problems of illegality - I have already said and I repeat and insist - not from an ideological point of view, but from a concrete point of view? You have to change the Bossi-Fini law. [[Applause from Senator De Petris]] Bossi-Fini, in fact, produces illegality. A significant part of those 400,000 to 600,000 irregular (depending on who intervenes) stems from the absurd mechanism of the Bossi-Fini, so much so that many entrepreneurs, as has been mentioned, used the form of humanitarian protection because they had trained them and wanted, through humanitarian protection, to maintain them. Please, at least, for a matter of intellectual correctness, let it be clear that security is a value for all. A thug is a thug. A person who rapes a girl is a criminal, who has to go to jail, both white, Italian and other. Why are you telling me I'm a buonist? I can feel this accusation on me. I am not a buonist: I try to find a form of government of a process that is linked to the changes of the world. I heard colleagues talk about the problem of religious fundamentalism. Attention, because if we do not perform our cultural function of Europe, capable, on the basis of what we have paid on our skin, in our history, of being against all forms of fundamentalism and racial separation, this problem will find itself and will be rawer and harder. You will be as concerned as I am if a climate of intolerance spreads in this country. We are not talking about good and bad; it has nothing to do with the distinction between good and bad and the 7th chivalry. No, we're talking about a cultural climate that invests and is producing resentment and anger. But is it just me? Anger and resentment. I see only the fact that he has cleared himself of everything and more, so much so that if a person gets on a train and is black in color they say to him: "Get away, you dirty nigger!"? You will agree with me that this problem is there. Let us take charge, then, from a cultural point of view, to give some message that does not chase and smooth the fur to the belly, but that seeks - because we have this task as the ruling class - to keep a little 'higher the cultural level of this country. In this sense, the measure before us goes in exactly the opposite direction. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u80	As has already been said, I suspend the sitting, which will resume at 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 1.07 p.m. and resumed at 3.08 p.m.) He's enlisted to speak Senator Augussori. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u81	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, senators and senators, the measure we are about to adopt is the effective and concrete response to the demand for greater security that our citizens and voters have voiced in all recent electoral, political and administrative rounds and that is to fill the legislative gaps left by a policy that has responded in a bland way or that, even worse, in some situations has not indicated that it has understood the seriousness of the individual issues. As is well known, the text under consideration includes better regulation of the management of migration, greater attention to the needs of the resources and endowments of our state and local police forces and, finally, a more incisive concreteness to the actions to combat the mafia phenomenon. However, the decree-law also deals with other issues, on which I will focus during my speech, which although of reduced media scope, affect the daily lives of our fellow citizens. Suffering and injustices that harm individual freedom and from which it was so far very difficult to be protected. I am referring, for example, to the crime of abusive employment, which is often perpetrated in the building industry to the detriment of those who, after years of ranking, would have the sacrosanct right to housing. And what about the countless times, as the chronicles often report, in which our elders, perhaps returning from a hospital hospital, found themselves the house occupied? With Articles 30 and 31, also thanks to the amending work carried out in the Commission, we will hit the executioners and organisers of these actions harder and we will also put an end to the legal reproach that saw the judiciary assign house arrests precisely in the occupied property. I would also like to turn to Article 21, which is particularly close to my heart, given my past as a local administrator, which extends the scope of the urban Daspus also for events carried out in health care centres and in areas used for fairs, markets and public shows. Here, too, we place heavier sanctions on the most incisive offenders and instruments in the hands of the mayors and quaestors. With amendment 21.0.7, approved by the Commission, we will finally introduce the crime of harassment. It is an uncivilized plague that afflicts the streets of our cities and our stations. Those who live, like me, in lower Lombardy, for example, know well which land of no one has become the station of Milan Rogoredo, a repository of all types of drug addicts, dedicated to every shady traffic and to heavily insolent all travelers. Which one of you, always in a big station, has ever tried to buy a subway ticket? You must literally defend yourself from the assault of hordes of the Roma police. This is not the first impression and the image that we want to give to tourists who come to our country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] With our vote we will punish the organizers and performers of these actions in an exemplary way. Amendment 21.0.10, adopted by the Commission, will then tighten the penalties for the racket of abusive parking cars. In some cities it is structured and almost institutionalized; in others it is carried out in a more subtle way, with artifices such as the fake street sale and practiced with the subtle psychological threat of possible damage to the car left unattended at their mercy. The most defenceless groups, such as women and the elderly, are particularly victims of this illegal activity. Article 23 restores the criminal offence with penalties of up to six years for road blockers, which is now only foreseen for the railway block. The aim is to prevent this dangerous practice, often carried out during the protests of immigrants or social centers, from being uncomfortable for citizens who, precisely on the ordinary road or via ferrata, work or go to the workplace, contributing to the internal product and who cannot, by the whim of a few, see denied that right and duty, enshrined in the Constitution, called "work". [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Foreigners guilty of this crime will also be denied the granting of the entry visa in Italy. Finally, allow me to make a brief excursus on Amendment No 14.7 which we proposed and which was adopted by the 1st Commission, which incorporates the draft law No 718 which I tabled on 26 July on how to acquire citizenship. It is proposed to grant Italian citizenship only to those who have an appreciated knowledge of the Italian language, to be certified by means of a qualification or specific official certifications. It is an objective verification, which aims to give citizenship only to those who are able to understand and speak properly the language and, consequently, understand and know the culture and laws of the country of which the applicant citizenship aspires to be part and which can thus demonstrate its true will for integration. As we have seen, and I conclude, this decree-law has many objectives, but only one: the citizens ask us for security and rules and we have a duty to give them to them. Therefore, I should like to congratulate Mr Salvini and his colleagues in the Lega Group, who have succeeded in doing so, and have thus kept one of the most important promises made to the electorate. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u82	She's registered to speak Senator Malpezzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u83	Mr President, I would like to say to my previous colleague that it is right and valid to insist on the knowledge of the Italian language, which is often neglected even by those who are Italian and who have studied in Italy. I hope, therefore, that there will be an invitation and a push to study all together and a little more because the results are often bad. Mr President, we have said this several times during the course of this morning and the minority rapporteur has said this: this is a manifest decree-law, a propaganda decree-law, which wants to be called security, but if we wanted to read it carefully, precisely because of the knowledge of the Italian language that he referred to earlier, we would see that there is nothing safe about this measure. We could call it decree zero. In fact, how many units are the Forces of Order increased in this decree? Zero. How many bilateral agreements have this government, which deals with security, made since it was in office? Zero. How many relocations have taken place in Europe, so much pressure on this Government, since when is it in office? Zero. Basically it is the vacuum tire, which you try to fill, most likely, trying to raise, as always, the attention and propaganda because you realize that zero you have also combined with this decree-law. The only thing that's not equal to zero in this measure is the damage you're going to do. Many have already been listed by Senator Mirabelli in a report that I would invite everyone to read. I will, however, focus only on another serious and dangerous damage which should be put to everyone's attention with less superficiality. Within this decree-law, in fact, there is the overcoming of the so-called humanitarian protection, with the introduction of a new form of special protection for foreigners placed in a condition of particular vulnerability. The excuse with which you defended this choice (the fact that humanitarian protection should be eliminated) was that by you, humanitarian protection is seen as a means of indiscriminately opening up borders. Well, always for the attention to reading, to knowledge, to the ability to interpret a text, I would like to say, Mr President, that humanitarian protection was, instead, precisely consistent with the spirit of openness and acceptance that characterizes a text that we should all know here, which is the Constitution. Thanks to humanitarian protection, in fact, there has been further implementation of the right to asylum, guaranteed by Article 10 (3) of the Constitution, recognizing as worthy of protection vulnerable and complex life situations, which cannot be simplified precisely because they are vulnerable and complex life situations. The repeal of humanitarian protection leaves these situations without any recognition but, above all, without any protection and opens a sort of timid window to those that are defined by you as new forms of special protection. These forms, however, can be granted when the conditions of Article 19 of the single text on immigration are met, which I am going to read: risk of persecution, torture, serious and systematic violations of human rights. I ask you, Mr President, and I also ask my fellow Members: can we really go in this vast declination to interpret and defend the condition that many immigrants live in certain countries? Can we really go and define specifically the dangers that some of these people are living and living? The news is from a few days ago. It is certainly not the one who occupies the front pages of the newspapers, but it is the news of what is happening in Tanzania, where a real homophobic hunt has started, even on Facebook and social media, inviting everyone to denounce their neighbor, companion or friend if suspected of who knows what inclination of their own, which indicates, instead, a state and a condition of the person himself. We have tried in the various debates to submit to you this problem and to say that, perhaps, this aspect should be taken to heart. The LGBT community, in fact, is a community that in those countries risks being subjected to situations that, even if they are not recognized as torture, go to harm the right of the person and that instead our Constitution must protect. And if these people come to Italy, from our point of view, because we only look at what is written within the Constitution, they must be protected and protected, because we want to guarantee to everyone the possibility of freely expressing the person who is. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u86	LANZI (M5S). Mr. President, through you, I wanted to say to Senator Malpezzi... No, you must speak on the order of business, because if you intervene personally, I will have you speak at the end of the sitting. LANZI (M5S). No, believe me, it's not a personal intervention. PRESIDENT. - The debate is If you address Senator Malpezzi, it is a personal matter and it is not an intervention on the order of business. LANZI (M5S). Through you, President. No, not through me: either you speak on the order of business or I will have you speak at the end of the sitting on a personal basis. LANZI (M5S). It's important to intervene now. Excuse me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I decide when it's important. If you address Senator Malpezzi, it is personal; either you intervene on the order of business, or I take the floor. LANZI (M5S). On the order of business, regarding Senator Malpezzi's speech... No, I'll take your word for it. Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u87	Mr President, there was a need in this country for a decree-law to intervene in the matter of security. We must ask ourselves a few questions concerning some of our fellow citizens. Is there frustration among our fellow citizens because they feel unable to deal with security issues under their own homes? Is there a problem linked to a state of mind of abandonment of many of our fellow citizens who see in the State and, sometimes, in justice, too many far-reaching rules unable to respond to their legitimate demand for security? I am sorry that whenever there is talk of security in the country, issues related to fascism, anti-fascism, racial discrimination or anything else come out. We must start from a premise: is the quality of life in our cities acceptable? It is obvious that all this is not only ascribed to the issue of security and public order. There is no doubt that security must be combined with the fight against the degradation of our cities. In the capital unfortunately we not only have many neighborhoods abandoned to their destiny, but also many neighborhoods that live a deep degradation, starting from the lack of lighting, until we get to the exercise of the most important and basic services. Let us think, for example, of waste collection; it is also a sign of the state of abandonment of our cities. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: It is an issue that is not addressed when it comes to security. Forgive me, President, but I would like to stress a few points to the Government. I address myself above all to the members of the Government; I do not know if you have decided to resort to trust and I do not want to take up the comments of colleagues who in the last parliamentary term reproached the Government when it used the instrument of trust. One out of many: when you were incendiary, while today - as a beautiful song says - you became firemen, you said that the instrument of trust choked democracy, preventing freedom of opinion within the Groups. Today, that you have become firemen, the instrument of trust you need to hide your divisions. And then we would have voted with extreme attention and conviction the decree-law to our examination. We have doubts, however, and I address most of all to the friends of the League. The decree-law collects in fact the demands of two political forces diametrically opposed to each other. The compromise that has been identified is therefore certainly downward. We have doubts and questions that unfortunately remain and remain: how do we send away the 600,000 illegals that the governments led by the Democratic Party have introduced in recent years? The measure does not give us an answer. Then there is the theme of expulsions: how do we send them home? Last night the television show "Le Iene" photographed in an exemplary and almost paradoxical way the case of a Nigerian boy who entered underground, committed crimes, was accused, had a sentence of conviction, perhaps took a day in jail and the next day was kicked out. He wants to go back to his country and ask for help on a television show so he can be repatriated. We are at these paradoxes. Unfortunately, we see that this legal inability to give answers remains. Mr President, in the final part of my speech, I would like to concentrate on an amendment which we tabled in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and I must say that President Borghesi has read it with great courtesy and analyzed it and I hope that confidence does not cancel all this work and this contribution. The amendment concerns the term authorising us today in our judicial system. I take the example of a question I put to Cassino's court about the case of a four-year-old girl suspected of sexual abuse in the family, for whom the gip summoned the probative incident six months after that event. You understand that the six-month probative incident, especially for crimes of sexual violence against children, totally loses its effectiveness. We have therefore tabled an amendment to change the term authorising officer in peremptory terms, at least on crimes of sexual violence against children. We hope that the government will have the courage to have a frank confrontation, even by accepting the contribution of those who are not in this majority today, and do not hide behind the trust. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u88	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the first grade secondary school "Guido Novello" in Ravenna, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u89	Senator Marilotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the measure under discussion defines more stringently the provisions on residence permits for humanitarian reasons and the discipline of the temporary one, proposing to overcome too general formulas, subject to interpretations that have caused uncertainty and difficulty in making effective the fight against illegal immigration. However, the phenomenon of immigration reminds us of issues that cannot be dealt with only by administrative or police measures. We need a historical and perspective vision that puts economic, geoclimatic, political and cultural knowledge at stake, in a word an overall vision. For some years, for the first time in the history of humanity, the population living in the cities and metropolises of the world has exceeded the number of those living in the immense remaining spaces. It is a figure to be grasped with concern for the cultural and anthropological changes that it generates, the first of which is certainly the migratory thrust. We need a global rethink of the models of development and society, but I realize that this is not the place to talk about it today. Facing the phenomenon of migration in a unified way allows us to make a balance and discover that the balance for our country is basically in balance: from the Unity of Italy to today 30 million Italians have emigrated and only a third has returned; there are about 80 million Italians in the world, many of whom maintain a relationship with our country and could be, if supported by an active and dynamic policy, the first ambassadors for the attraction of capital in our country, for the Made in Italy, for the influence of our culture in the various districts. In fact, of the approximately 10 million foreigners who have arrived in Italy since the 1970s, there are 5 million residents, to which one and a half million Italian citizens of foreign origin must be added. The same can be said today about the expat: there are just under 300,000 Italians, especially young people, who every year emigrate in search of a future, which is denied to them here. The same number is about that of the actual and actual movements of immigrants in our country. Of course this flow must be managed and the European Union has left us alone in the face of this emergency. Yet we are an integral and not a secondary part of European integration. We are a Mediterranean country and we must strongly claim that Europe's lung cannot breathe only in the North and the North-East. We need to ask the European Union, but also the governments that have followed in recent years, what has happened to the Euro-Mediterranean policies, the Euro-Mediterranean partnership, the civil forums, decentralised cooperation and the great project to achieve a large area of free trade in the Mediterranean area by 2020, with a view to creating the basis for cooperation with sub-Saharan Africa. We know very well what happened to the dream launched at the 1995 Barcelona Conference: it broke after 11 September 2001 with the winds of war and geopolitical changes, which have severely depressed all our partners on the southern shore of the Mediterranean. These changes have also had the effect of depressing the Mezzogiorno of Italy, including islands. All the socio-economic data of the last decade tell us of a loss of competitiveness of the Mezzogiorno, where the drama of emigration is resumed and from welcoming land, inclusive, multi-ethnic and proud to be so, even in the Mezzogiorno there emerge discouragement and fear. We people of the South belong to a Mediterranean koinè, which is declined in various ways and in many languages, which are part of a single cultural landscape. We need dialogue and cooperation, for common growth, with our leaders. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that, despite these considerations, my vote on the decree-law we are debating today will be in favour of, in the hope that it will be supplemented by a strong commitment from the Government, so that a new Euro-Mediterranean policy can be implemented without delay, so that multilateral agreements which can contribute to the stability of the African continent and govern migratory flows with active policies can be achieved. That is why I have tabled an agenda for the Government to accept these requests. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u91	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u92	Mr President, we learn from government sources that the Government intends to put its trust in this measure: this is proof that the majority is afraid of the secret votes that we would have asked for on the measure. This means that the majority stifles internal dissent. [[Applause from the PD Group]] By the way, it is precisely those colleagues who for years have said plague and horns of the vows of trust. This is a serious way, Mr President, not only for this measure, which is partly unconstitutional, but also because it undermines the right of free opinion of individual Members. It is a pity that, if we had had the opportunity to examine and vote in this House on the various amendments we have tabled, we might have been able to heal some injustices, for example to the detriment of not refugees, but of citizens of Italian origin. I refer, in particular, to many women of Italian origin who have been unfairly deprived of Italian citizenship over the years, in the light of an archaic and profoundly discriminatory Italian law, which is also contrary to the Constitution. I am talking about a law of 1912 that automatically took citizenship away from Italian women simply because of having contracted marriage with foreign citizens. Over the course of time there have been judgments - two of them - which have tried to remedy this situation. In a judgment of the Constitutional Court of 1983 it was established that that part of the law was even illegitimate and it was established that the children of those women born after 1 January 1948 (i.e. the date of entry into force of the Constitution, which rightly recognizes dignity and equal rights for men and women) citizenship would be recognized. Later, the Supreme Court of Cassation also adopted in 2009 a judgment seeking to remedy the situation of those children born before the entry into force of the Constitution. In short, both judgments - unfortunately - have failed to solve the problem, because the current law of re-acquiring Italian citizenship contains a bureaucratic quirk by virtue of which women have to physically appear in consulate in order to acquire Italian citizenship. Therefore, out of absurdity, there are mothers with more children, one of whom may have obtained Italian citizenship because it was born after the entry into force of the Italian Constitution, unlike others only because they were born before, in the wrong year. If confidence were not put in place and we could examine and vote on the amendments tabled, perhaps the government could rethink and go to recognize and heal a real discriminatory injustice [[Applause from the PD Group]] On the other hand, if the situation remains this, Italian women and their descendants, because of this dullness, will not see recognized their right. A real, grave sin, Mr. President. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u93	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, let us be clear: this decree-law introduces a change of pace and begins to reverse the trend, after years of laxity and goodism of the left. However, this is an imperfect act. We wouldn't want to dehub it, with a joke, the classic "wish" but I can't, because however we appreciate the effort and we share the measures introduced and - even more - the guidelines. Nevertheless, we have found some weaknesses and shortcomings and that is why we have presented an improvement package, which is indeed strengthening, consisting of 43 amendments which, except for one by my signature, have all been rejected during the work in the Commission. We have presented a set of improvements because the fight against illegal immigration is a historic battle of Brothers of Italy and - above all - because our country has an absolute need, I would say desperate, for security and stricter rules on illegal immigration. We will vote in favour of the conversion of the decree-law, but the measure - in our opinion - risks being more suggestive, than concretely effective and effective; with a great media aspect, but insufficient to face realities that have become complex and dramatic. In short, we believe that Italy needs much more both to combat illegal immigration and to ensure greater security for its citizens. The use of international protection as an instrument has been discussed. In fact, the disproportionate nature and the anomaly of the numbers of forms of international protection granted and the number of residence permits granted for humanitarian reasons are quite clear. And more: to the cases of humanitarian protection recognized by the territorial committees of competence have been added those recognized by the judicial authority following judicial appeal: in short, a maze, normative meanders and interweaving of different instruments that have produced an ungovernable and ungovernable situation, with pockets of illegality and forms of clandestineness more or less disguised. The point is that humanitarian protection, introduced into the internal system as a form of complementary protection, residual, exceptional and emerging, has become in the widespread bad practice the most widely used and recognised benefit. In short, in Italy we managed to achieve an anomaly. We have totaled three forms of recognition, three types of protection: that for humanitarian reasons linked to our system, plus two other forms of European derivation, namely subsidiary international protection and temporary protection. It is precisely the humanitarian one, therefore that of the free choice of our legislator, that has been most used. And Article 1 of the decree-law in question affects the protection for humanitarian reasons, that is, that which, leaving the word to the numbers, has had a course that is defined as statistically inflationary, that is, has been inflated. According to Eurostat, in 2017, of the total number of recipients of protection (over 35,000), more than 20,000 obtained it for humanitarian reasons; more than 6,000 for refugee status; more than 8,000 for subsidiary protection, while the returnees were only 1.515. With regard to the countries of origin of the receiving protection, it should be stressed that the majority are from Nigeria (over 25,000), followed by Bangladesh, Pakistan, Gambia. Only later on the list, much lower, after Senegal, Guinea, Ghana and Eritrea, do we find countries such as Syria, Afghanistan and Iraq, that is, war zones. I want to point out, being at the top of the list Nigeria, that no one will escape the mafia scope of this import crime. This rule has been abused, and it is good to expect it to be repealed. But there are many, too many exceptions, too many special cases, potentially large meshes; medical care for those in a severely compromised state of health; exceptional calamity of the country of origin; conditions of serious labour exploitation. And I could go on. Any immigrant may easily request to be included in these exceptions. The abolition of humanitarian protection, on the other hand, is a battle for us, and the so-called Salvini Decree-Law seems weak to us, because it leaves too many hypotheses open to obtain protection. This means launching a slogan that evokes. We are for the abolition of humanitarian protection without whether or not but. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] This must be introduced into the decree-law, and subtract it from the reception circuit. Also because I wonder: what is planned for the 600,000 illegal immigrants who travel in our country? There is a lack of certain rules of repatriation. We have the cards in place to support this clear position, because everyone who is in good faith knows that we cannot be driven out either of intolerance, racism or xenophobia. Mr Laus (PD). No? RAUTI (FdI). We cannot be denied it, because it has been since the 1990s, since the times of the Italian Social Movement, we first - not you - said: let us help them at home. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] And again: we have devised cooperation policies that do not create dependence. The Italian Social Movement in the nineties, when immigration was subject to study of demography and was not the invasion that is today, posed this problem and we considered it a drama theirs and a drama ours. This drama remains and the decree-law under consideration does not resolve it. We hope that it will be strengthened and improved. Mr Laus (PD). Too soft? RAUTI (FdI). More courage is needed to tackle the problem: this is what the country asks us to do. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u95	Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will remain on Title I of the Decree-Law, i.e. on the immigration side. Later, in the explanations of vote on the amendments - if there are, we do not know - we will be, as a whole, as a Democratic Party, more specific in describing the negative aspects of this measure, in highlighting its whole propagandistic substance, in highlighting the damage it causes and in shouting against the hostility that is put on the ground towards humanity. I say shout because, when the strong wind rises, very strong and also contrary, there are those who lower and repair while waiting for it to pass. But we are the others, the ones who, pervaded by the unbearable need to make their voices heard, when the wind is strong, lift up their voices and cry out to make themselves heard. [[Applause from the PD Group]] But in general discussion I think it is more appropriate to make a reasoning that highlights the profound inadequacy that the Government manifests with this decree-law on the subject of immigration. And I will take inspiration from various reflections, including that of Bishop Toso. From this decree-law it is clear that the Government has no awareness that the migration phenomenon is global, epochal and irreversible. The UN tells us this, through figures that look at the parallelism between the rise of the world population and the increase of migrants, especially in the African continent. We are told by many studies and reflections, which describe this very complex phenomenon. But it shows us the reality, which daily puts us in front of us what happens in the world because of economic disparities and rights, for wars and persecutions, for climate change. It is precisely on this point that Italy should play a role. From Italy one should expect the ability to aggregate sensibilities, reflections, proposals for joint action, proposals for supranational European strategies, to begin addressing the government of these changes through continental and long-term policy responses, especially for the development of cooperation towards Africa, because the changes are already there and the lack of answers continues. In fact, if on the one hand the awareness of the failure to achieve a substantial European unity has been formed, at the same time we see changes in national unity, through the continuous flow of migrations, which make it more complex because of the encounter of more ethnic groups and more cultures. National unity is at the same time, in addition to this, weakened by the failure of the sharing of great moral and civil values, such as life, solidarity understood as the pursuit of good for others, the work that gives dignity, freedom rooted in the interweaving of duties and rights, religious freedom. Therefore, the most urgent problem is the dialogue and coexistence between different groups, not yet converging on a platform of goods and values shared by all. Well, we have a platform of high-profile goods and values that we share, that we do not want to weaken, on which it would be right and positive to work to bring together the complex parts of society that are now in Italy, to make a leap forward towards sustainable and inclusive progress. This platform is the Constitution. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I just have to mention the last period of Chapter XVIII of the transitional and final provisions, before the date, which reads: The Constitution must be faithfully observed as the fundamental law of the Republic by all citizens and bodies of the State. At the end of the day, this is where I find the strong link between the Constitution and citizenship. Some people here like to call themselves a citizen, not a comrade, not a friend but a citizen. This is the sense of citizenship: here is the link between the right and the duty of the citizen. And then, instead of investing in our Constitution and the people who can find the reasons to embrace it, the government makes them illegal, removes them from the registry, erases their tracks with only one simplistic and - as we will see - even unrealistic - we send them all back to their home. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Perhaps one requirement is missing: the awareness that what allows us to overcome isolationisms and obtuse nationalisms is the perception of ourselves all being part of the same humanity and recognizing that we are interdependent, that we cannot grow without others. Well, it ends faithfully observed and by the organs of the State. This Senate is an organ of the State and, if it converts this decree-law, it will not have observed the Constitution. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u97	Senator Pirovano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u98	Mr President, I do not want to review the whole system from the Decree-Law because I believe that my colleagues have talked a lot about it and there are certainly equally important aspects to the first part. I am talking in particular about the fight against the mafia, but also about the whole part of Title II on security and the actions that have been put in place. I want to talk about something that may surprise you, namely integration. At a time when there are five million people in absolute poverty in our country, of whom just over 32% are foreigners, I would like to talk to you about integration because integration, the real one, has not been done by the State for many years, while the problem of having to integrate in local communities has been created. For me foreigners - those who, according to you, for the Legists, are ugly and bad - are children like Navid, who is an Indian child who lost his mother in 2010 for a carbon monoxide escape along with the family, has been helped by the municipality and is now going to school to become a cook; or like Ahmed, the country pizza maker, Egyptian, who is the first of the traders available to help in municipal demonstrations. There are many people who have been helped, regular citizens who the City, the parish, volunteers - and so happens in all the Italian municipalities - have helped in these years to integrate. You talk about integrating citizens who have simply applied for international protection, but you have forgotten all the others. Talk about integrating unaccompanied foreign minors, which we, even with this decree, will continue to help - which will no longer be, thanks to a majority amendment, charged to the municipalities - but you have never talked about the integration of the children of regular foreign citizens. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Many sacrifices have been made in recent years, not because they have more rights than others, but because they have more difficulties than others in joining our society. We are talking about the school, which lacks hours; the teachers and educators who are paid by the municipality and the support teachers who should be paid by the state but who are not enough. Despite this, the funds for the right to study also help the children of regular citizens, regular residents who go to school with us. Therefore, the Legists are not those who hate foreigners: they are simply those who want certain rules to ensure that even foreigners who have the right to stay in our country, and who, for one reason or another, have found themselves in difficulty because they may have lost their jobs, may be helped and may have some more rights than those who simply made a request for international protection. I want to return to the issue of humanitarian protection, because I like to go into the issues and I have done so during the work of the Commission. Humanitarian protection was introduced in our country in 1998, so before the implementation of the European legislation on subsidiary protection, approved by the European Council in 2004 and implemented in Italy in 2007, some criteria are indicated. The Court of Cassation, in a judgment of 2011, ruled that in cases where the foreigner, returning to his country, risks being subjected to serious persecution, death penalty, torture or inhuman and degrading treatment, he must be granted subsidiary protection and not humanitarian protection: this is because he has more protection and beyond that also allows him to expatriate, which many of the asylum seekers in this country want to do. In Italy, humanitarian protection was applied even when the immigrant showed that he wanted to integrate, perhaps because he had taken an Italian course or had practiced volunteering. The fact of proving that you want to integrate is not a bonus, but an indispensable condition to stay in our country. Then it is normal that the possibility of staying in this country, with a denial or withdrawal of the request for international protection, should be removed when an immigrant carries out serious acts or crimes, such as sexual violence, drug trafficking or female genital mutilation. I think it's normal for him to have no chance of being here. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Since we have accepted it, the least you can do is try to integrate with all the appropriate aid. And the same goes for the loss of citizenship: as well as the facts of not being a threat to the State and not being guilty of crimes related to terrorism are conditions without which you cannot obtain citizenship, I do not see why we cannot have the right to remove citizenship to a person we have welcomed in our country, perhaps helped, and who in return decides that he hates us and wants to kill us all. That doesn't sound so inhuman to me. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Returning to the issue of SPRAR, from now on they will be reserved for holders of international protection and unaccompanied foreign minors. So, finally, it will be possible to create for these people a more detailed and more articulated path that allows a true integration. Those people will have the right to register with the registry of the municipalities in the residents' registers, because they want to integrate, stay on our territory and enjoy all the benefits that the registration allows. Of course this also means that the municipalities from now on will also have more say in the matter of the reception of foreign asylum seekers on their territories. I am referring in particular to the issue of CAS, because until recently the municipalities, apart from having to maintain minors, have to do integration and have to invent anything to make their communities live in harmony, were not even warned by the prefectures of the arrival of asylum seekers. From now on, thanks to our amendment, they will not only have to be notified, but they will also have to give a preventive opinion to the prefecture, so that we can determine whether the place where a private person, who may have seen an easy gain in welcoming, has decided to host people thanks to the work of cooperatives, meets the minimum reception requirements that are those valid for all human beings. Cooperatives, moreover, together with all the rest of the actors in the reception system, will have to be a little more transparent - this is another improvement amendment that has been approved in the Commission - in order to ensure that all that is used (public money and therefore citizens) for the reception of asylum seekers is reported. I should like to conclude by simply saying that I am proud of the decree-law in question, and not only because of what I have been talking about, but also because of many other aspects. I hope it will be a start, because it is certainly not the panacea of all evils - there is, for example, the problem of return, while working on other fronts and the Ministry is very active in this regard, even if this issue is not included in the decree - but it is a first step to ensure that there are certain rules, which will then also be for the judiciary to enforce. There is an implementation of the number of territorial commissions to dispose of the more than 100,000 applications for international protection still pending, which is why the urgency of this decree has also been justified because, if it is true that the landings have decreased by 80%, it is also true that there are still many people waiting for an answer. Those who really have the right to be helped must see it recognized even more than before; while those who have been exploited, those who have lost money, those who have indebted the family, maybe ended up in the hands of organized crime at home or those who have faced inhuman journeys - those yes - enriching the criminals dedicated to the trafficking of human beings, perhaps in agreement with other criminals who on the territory expect nothing but cheap labour, must know that, at the moment when part, unfortunately, risks, not only to die, but also to end up in a system that will no longer be able to help him if he is not really entitled to it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u99	She's enlisted to speak Senator Floridia. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the substance of the measure is concerned, I do not want to repeat myself, because the previous colleague has been clear and has actually outlined the entire decree-law in detail. [[Comments of Senator Bellanova]] However, I would like to focus on the method. I think it is necessary to start from an essential observation, that is, from the narrative that is being fed and that divides the world between good and bad, so among the good there is a part of the opposition, while on the other hand, that of the bad ones, the whole majority is placed as responsible for nefariousness or because succubus and silent before them. In the same way the measure under consideration has become in the narration a decree-law on human rights in absolute. I regret to repeat myself in this House, but there is still a politically elementary will to focus morals, on which we are all in agreement and which is not in question, without instead making the narrative of the real, made up of the existing fabric, of hardships, of crimes, of ambiguous situations never resolved, of marginalization and of crime. I understand that politically the elementary narrative that continues to be done by dividing the world between good and bad - and I repeat voluntarily - ignores that all people not only have rights that must certainly be protected, but also have responsibilities with respect to the actions they do, that must be monitored, controlled and normalized, but that's true for everyone: just be the narrator and get on the side of the good and the game is done. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The depth of political action, on the other hand, must go further and oblige us to be far-sighted, certainly less popular, but more concrete. The reality is made up of responsibility, fatigue and an attempt to try to put order and certainty in a system that obviously did not work. And this is the narration of the real on which I spend that we all have to agree. It is also necessary to stop fomenting and continuously narrating the risk of a historical drift towards which we are heading. For intellectual honesty, colleagues, look at us, since we are often called into question: we are here and we are people of high moral values; we are people who know history, in many cases we teach it in schools and universities and we know its weight and value. To nourish fears and wrong attitudes is also the wrong narration that is made, with the distinction between good and bad, and non-existent drifts. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I don't remember who mentioned Orwell and the Ministry of the Truth of the novel "1984". The refined and far-sighted quote is there, because in that novel actually a single party dominated and there were four Ministries. But do you know what that world of "1984" had created, why novels should be read to the end and its general essence should be accepted? It was not because of the nefariousness of the one party in power that had degenerated and not even because of the violence of the four Ministries, but because they had been removed in time and without anyone noticing to the prolet - you will remember all was the proletariat of the novel, the people - all rights, slowly and inexorably. Perhaps the book quoted comes in handy to testify how austerity policies and cuts in social can lead to authoritarian drifts. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is true: the book quoted is useful, but it is actually useful for us. Perhaps the example was quite fitting, but to the advantage of a majority that, on the one hand, implements security policies, on the other, nourishes and supports the rights of people, of all people, so that they can maintain dignity and freedom and never become prolet of Orwell's 1984. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u101	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u102	Mr President, our examination is one of the most important measures of this majority and concerns a subject which Forza Italia, our political movement, considers a real flag: it was one of the most important issues in the electoral programme that was conceived and built together with our allies in the electoral campaign, Brothers of Italy and League. It is obvious, therefore, that the sensitivity of the Senators of Forza Italia on this issue is particularly accentuated. It is a theme that we think represents an emergency for this country and represents it because the Italians feel it on their skin. It is a problem that does not, of course, concern only and exclusively the issue of illegal immigration, that immigration that has been completely out of control for too many years, that has made it possible to reach a level of disaffection and protest by Italians until almost to make them become racist, and the Italians have never been so. But there is so much suffering, especially at a particularly difficult time from an economic point of view for the Italian people, in seeing that a great mass of citizens from the African continent were pouring into our country. The theme of security, however, is particularly dear to the Italians also for the incredible micro-criminality that concerns the lives of our cities, especially the big ones. There are our parliamentarians who make it a matter of battle. Our colleague, Mr Causin, has repeatedly committed himself to urban security, which has become an emergency in this country, and to organised crime, which, unfortunately, inhabits our country and continues to be very present. For all these reasons it is obvious that the approach of Forza Italia towards a measure signed by the Minister of the Interior and Secretary of the League is of course benevolent and favorable, even if we are aware that, as it has been packaged, the decree-law does not grasp exactly everything we thought should be caught during the electoral campaign and for what Forza Italia believes are the real emergencies and for how, compared to the problem, we had to pose. It is obvious that - for example - Italians expect the many illegals and illegals who are in our country - it is not well known what they are doing - to return to their country. We are talking about a huge number: 600,000 people are on Italian soil and should leave because it is not well known what title they are here with us. In this measure - many have already said so, but it is right that I stress this as the last to intervene for Forza Italia in general discussion - this problem remains suspended. It is not dealt with decisively. I understand that the theme is how to do it. It is impossible to send those people home if there are no bilateral agreements with the countries of North Africa, with some of them - for example - at the time of the Berlusconi Government covenants were established. You have to do this and, instead, you are wasting time. We must get to work to discuss and establish measures with African countries, at least with those through which this river of people passes, and then embark in a clandestine, dangerous way, with all the consequences that we also know of humanitarian level, and land on our coasts. This is one of the issues that will have to be addressed. It is not enough for the Italian Army to intervene in Libya to create conditions such that the desperate river does not cross the African country and then arrive on the coasts, board underground and arrive in our country. This is not enough: we must dialogue, discuss and reach agreements with those countries. In addition, as Forza Italia Holding Company in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it is right that you should remember that constitutional problems emerge in the measure. I think Mr Vitali agrees. We have been widely explained - who is a member of that Commission between the ranks of the Movimento 5 Stars and the League knows it well - that there are various questions of a constitutional nature that are not surpassed and, first of all, that concerning citizenship. We are in this country; we believe in the Constitution, which we defended even a year and a half ago when someone wanted to demolish it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The League, along with us, fought for that Constitution to remain one of the symbols of a modern country that has a Charter that continues to be important. We were expecting a different attitude from the League at least on this issue that we shared in the election campaign. We would have expected - for example - that our suggestions translated into amendments could be read and not only as of Forza Italia, on which undersecretary Molteni told me that an agreement could be reached by modifying them because the thought was shared. What are these amendments? There's a lot of them. Of course, some things you've accepted, but there are very few. We are talking about five out of a hundred amendments, a very ludicrous percentage. I would like to mention these cases because I think that the positive aspects of the measure should also be mentioned. And I am referring, for example, to the proposal in Article 19- bis (text 2), which I would like to mention here is also the result of a suggestion from Federalberghi and an amendment signed by myself and my colleague, Mr Mallegni, which has been accepted by you. It allows the possibility, as well as the obligation to display the identity document tenants or sub-blockers also for contracts of less than thirty days duration. This amendment has been accepted and is a good thing, because it means that the needs of those who work and work in the tourism sector are also heard. Similarly, it is right that I recall Rule 21-a on the organisation of other people's begging, since Mr Quagliariello is not speaking, which I do not see in the Chamber at the moment. It was Senator Quagliariello who rightly identified the existence of a deficiency: that of the organization of the other begging. When someone goes around selling lighters or other things, these are evidently the product of a criminal organization, because they don't buy them somewhere and then sell them. There is someone who organizes such a trade. That is, it is a good thing that, at last, the measure under consideration also intervenes on those who exploit these disinherited, desperate and severely punish them. Finally, Article 23 on the roadblock - with an amendment also suggested by Assologistica we intervene on an issue on which we absolutely agree - finally punishes those who act absolutely illegitimately and the sanction becomes, as administrative, criminal. It was right that this should happen. In the face of all this, it is right that I remember how we lacked the issues that were most important to us, the ones that we stressed. The absence of a feeling of security on the part of the Italian people is linked above all to a factor: the lack of the presence of the Forces of order in the key points, in the neighborhoods and in the situations that arouse the greatest alarm. The members of the Forces of Order must be paid more. More funding must be given to new recruitments between police, police and financiers. That is the most lacking aspect. The final question is: where will you end up if you put the question of trust in this measure? We ask you not to put it because we, despite the shortcomings mentioned, are still on the side of the citizens who are asking for security and we will vote in favour of the measure if you give us the opportunity. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Do not put the vote of confidence because you would put us before a clear problem. It is clear that you have a problem with your Movimento 5 Star allies, which do not allow you to carry things forward as you probably want. Therefore, please do not put the vote of confidence because, if you do not ask, Forza Italia will vote favorably on this measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u103	Senator Maiorino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, I fully agree with the previous speech by my colleague, Mrs Floridia. Too easy is the narration according to which there are good and bad distinct, also because, in this case, the bad would be us. It is necessary, on the other hand, that we also say clearly, but with calmness, because it is an objective fact, something that citizens outside these Palaces already know very well. If today we have to intervene urgently with a decree-law that redesigns the system of reception and protection of immigrants, it is because of decades of unholy management of the Democratic Party. [[Comments by Senators Bellanova and Mirabelli.]] If today we are managing too many asylum seekers on our territory, it is because Matteo Renzi has traded Italy for 80 denari, with his 80 euro bonuses, in exchange for the reception in Italy of all migrants headed for Europe. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] This is a well-established fact, confirmed last year by the Executive Director of Frontex, French Fabrice Leggeri, at the European Parliament hearing. Because of the wretched and irresponsible migration policy of someone, disguised as a humanitarian spirit, the overcrowding and crisis of the national system of identification and reception have resulted in an increasing number of immigrants condemned to a humiliating limbo of indeterminateness and welfare [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Or, worse still, doomed to illegality and working slavery, for men, and sexual slavery, for women. [[Senator Marcucci's comments.]] The IOM, the international organisation for migration, believes and I quote... MIRABELLI (PD). President, let her talk about the decree-law. MAIORIN (M5S). ...that about 80% of Nigerian migrants arriving by sea in 2016 are likely victims of trafficking destined for sexual exploitation in Italy or in other countries of the European Union. This is the wonderful fate that the reckless migration policy of the so-called left has condemned thousands of migrants who today say instead of wanting to help and protect. PUGLIA (M5S). Shame! MAIORIN (M5S). Because of this left, salutary and carefree, it has come to create an unsustainable situation... LAUS (PD). That's the majority, we're in opposition! MAIORIN (M5S). ...an unsustainable situation in terms of social impact... Can we move on without further comment? MALPEZZI (PD). No, because it offends. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's not insulting, or I would have taken it back. Please, Senator Maiorino. MIRABELLI (PD). You should talk about the decree-law. MAIORIN (M5S). Because of this policy of a left-wing salon and carefree has been created... LAUS (PD). Again! MAIORIN (M5S). An unsustainable situation has been created in terms of both social impact and cost to the State. Mr Laus (PD). You live in the kitchen, in the dining room. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Laus, the senator's intervention is perfectly within the prerogatives of a senator to express himself freely in this House. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] If there were any offense against the opposition, I'd be the first to call the senator back. [[Comments of Senator Malpezzi]] I have not repented of it and I would ask you kindly to end the surgery. Mr Marcucci (PD). We don't trust him. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm not here, Senator. MAIORIN (M5S). A situation of perennial emergency that has favored the development on the skin of the immigrants of an uncontrolled business, cynical and often illegal, from the cooperatives that operate without transparency and are enriched without care with migrants, to the scandals and frauds of the CARA of Mineo, Foggia, Benevento and island of Capo Rizzuto, with the involvement of the 'ndrangheta and Mafia Capital. To quote the words of my colleague Malpezzi who preceded me, the tyre vacuum is exactly the void left by your policy, the void in which lawlessness prospered. Not to mention the shameful and inhumane conditions in which those who claim to have immigrants at heart forced them to live as beasts in cages... SOUTHANO (PD). Mineo's CARA opened it up by the League. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, go ahead. MAIORIN (M5S). I visited personally a few weeks ago the center of stay for the repatriation (CPR) of Ponte Galeria of Rome and what have I seen? I have seen cages, ladies and gentlemen, of cages that are no longer seen in zoos. These are the CPRs that were built by those who preceded us; this in particular has been there since 1998, in the absolute silence of those who established it. For all this we must give thanks to those who have preceded us, who today instead have the audacity to stand up as defender of the rights of immigrants and to criticize us who have always denounced their mistakes and today we try to remedy it, redesigning the system of reception and protection created by others, trying, moreover, by every means, to ensure that Europe does not leave Italy alone to manage the migration phenomenon. We are solving problems created by those who have preceded us, but we do not expect them to have the good taste of silence. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of the PD Group.]] MIRABELLI (PD). As well! MAIORIN (M5S). The opposition is only interested in putting the majority in trouble with instrumental attacks, in the hope of resuming their positions and at the loss of the country. MALPEZZI (PD). Put your trust in it! MAIORIN (M5S). Even on this decree-law, in fact, you have tried to distort reality, hiding the positive innovations contained in it, some of which have already been mentioned. I am thinking - for example - of the possibility of using the electronic bracelet for the crimes of stalking and domestic violence, thus introducing a hope of real protection for the victims of these hateful crimes, primarily women of course. There are also more stringent rules for car rental, which have become necessary to prevent vile terrorist attacks, such as those that have taken place in several European cities. There is no mention of this, however, because some people are only interested in putting this Government in a bad light. Also in the field of immigration, this text introduces important changes. Mr Marcucci (PD). Tell that to your colleagues. MALPEZZI (PD). You create more. MAIORIN (M5S). Of course, this provision alone is not enough to solve all the problems that you have left behind, but it is a first step. In fact, we have worked very hard, both within us and with our colleagues in the League, to significantly improve the text approved by the Council of Ministers. The 5 Star Movement has introduced the possibility of extending residence permits for those fleeing from natural disasters; the obligation of public reporting for private subjects and cooperatives who manage reception centres; the guarantee and respect of human dignity at all stages of repatriation. In addition, we have committed the Government to ensure that every immigrant applying for protection is properly informed of all his or her rights. This is especially important for those LGBT minorities, which someone mentioned earlier in this House, persecuted in their country of origin for their sexual orientation, so that they know that they will be welcomed and protected here. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] MIRABELLI (PD). He's not here! MALPEZZI (PD). No, you're not! You voted against! Mr Laus (PD). Stop! MAIORIN (M5S). As Movimento 5 Stars we will continue to work to further improve the reception and protection system of refugees, reconciling legality and civilization, security and solidarity. As it is necessary to remove from Italy the immigrant who delinque and represents a danger to the community, it is equally necessary to protect and integrate the immigrant who flees from war, poverty or persecution, making him our citizen with equal duties and equal rights. Today we had to intervene urgently to manage the emergency and the chaos that we inherited from those who have succeeded in a state of permanent emergency, but now we can work to rebuild on the rubble that you have left us an efficient and worthy reception system of a civil and truly democratic country. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u105	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u108	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I would like to address the Presidency and colleagues, particularly the last speaker. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Speak on the order of business and, therefore, do not refer to the subject of the sitting. Mr Marcucci (PD). I was saying that before we speak in this House about an important measure such as this, we should read it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u109	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education Carlo Urbani in Porto Sant'Elpidio, in the province of Fermo, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u110	He asked the rapporteur, Senator Borghesi, to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u111	Mr President, in the light of the debate so far and the speeches that have been made, I would ask that the replies be postponed until tomorrow so that further consideration can be given. MALPEZZI (PD). Put the LGBT amendment on it too!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u114	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, the Conference of Leaders decided that the Senate Assembly should be convened on Monday, because the week was full of work. We had the Senate opened. We spent public money. Why do we have to suspend work now? Why? Does the majority have to go deeper? [[Comments of Senator Bottici]] I would ask the Presidency, since it is so careful, to ask the Senator, Mr Bottici, not to interrupt me while I speak, since it would be her role. [[Applause from the PD Group]] At 4.30 p.m. work is interrupted and we want to understand what the necessary details are. Why did we have the Senate open on Monday? We're here, we want to work and move on with the work. Is it because it has already been decided outside the Chamber that confidence will be placed? Is it because the majority does not agree with the text of the amendment? [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u115	Thank you, Senator Marcucci.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u116	Mr Marcucci (PD). Excuse me, Mr President, but this is a delicate and important matter. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Without a doubt. [[Senator De Petris points out that she wants to intervene.]] I see that another colleague is also going to ask for the floor, and I understand what his point is. Mr Marcucci (PD). I ask the government and the majority to explain. I'm glad you understood. This gives me great relief. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr Laus (PD). It was all clear until a moment ago.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u119	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I am very disappointed. You will remember, as you are taking part in the meetings of the Conference of Leaders, that the majority wanted the absolute guarantee, so much so that the possibility of the night sitting was also envisaged, that the decree-law under consideration, in total emergency, was closed by tomorrow. Now here we discover this proposal, without any motivation being offered. If there are any reasons, let's say. Are there any insights to be done? Return to the Commission: then vote for the return to the Commission. Or proceed, because I do not believe that further in-depth analysis should be done for the replies, since we know the decree-law, which we have followed step by step, trying to amend it in the Commission. If there are any news and second thoughts, we have every opportunity to return to the Commission. If there are problems with the maxi amendment or with confidence or with the majority, take responsibility for it, but it is no longer acceptable for a timetable to be decided at the Conference of the Leaders, on the contrary, to be asked forcefully, so much so that we wanted to give an even shorter time for the general discussion and the decree-law, and then we arrive here and even go back to tomorrow, because you obviously continue to have difficulties and problems. Mr President, this is absolutely unacceptable. All the voices, about trust and lack of confidence: let us begin the examination, do the deepening, do the night sitting that was scheduled for this evening, and let us begin to vote on the amendments. Take responsibility, if there are any problems, for the debate or, if there are any further details, vote here - and we ask you to do so immediately - to return to the Commission. It is not acceptable to treat this House like this, after there has been a great deal of in-depth work and work in the Commission too, which is often unanswered. We too have asked for further details and the answers have not been given, on some grounds. At least you have the courage to go back to the Commission, or you continue to work this evening and tonight - so you will have plenty of time to look into the replies - and we are beginning to vote on the amendments. And stop telling people about trust and not trust: take responsibility for what you have to do! [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u122	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I rise to express the dismay of the Forza Italia Group at this request, which clearly has the support of the majority and the Government. We have had an interesting general discussion, all the groups have spoken, we have the amendments ready and we can easily move on to discussing amendment by amendment, we do not see what we need for further strange insights. If, on the other hand, the government's intention is to put trust, well, do it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The measure is ready: many amendments have been adopted in the Commission and, since it has already been known for several days, it is enough to put them in a large amendment, on which confidence is placed, unless we think of taking a further step and perhaps introducing additional elements, totally unrelated to the measure as they have already been approved in the Commission, perhaps at Palazzo Chigi. But leave Palazzo Chigi alone, because then there's the hand and who knows what it puts in there! [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] As long as you do not break the Constitution, the laws are discussed in Parliament and not in the "Great Council of the Government Contract" [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] So let us continue here, out of respect for the citizens, the Senate, the institutions and the will expressed so far by the Assembly. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u125	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, our Group too, which has also followed the measure with the utmost attention and also benevolence, calls for clarity on the intentions of the majority. I think it's our right. In the Commission - as Mr La Pietra said in the general debate - we have already witnessed, with great dismay, the exclusion from the debate of our amendments, because they were found to be outside the subject, without convincing reasons. Article 81 of the Constitution is used as a guillotine to prevent discussion of amendments that are considered "dangerous" for the majority, perhaps because they are susceptible to internal divisions. Now there is this further request. With the greatest willingness to dialogue that we have always demonstrated, we simply ask that the majority now tell us what they intend to do tomorrow, if the work is postponed until tomorrow, because tomorrow we would not want to relive this psychodrama or comedy of art. I believe that the Senate does not deserve such treatment. The rapporteur, the majority and the government tell us whether they intend to put trust, when and on which text, and when we will be able to examine the text that will be presented. We ask that we be able to reason with the majority - we are still calling for this - on a text that is definitive, knowing what the intentions are, whether the trust will be on purpose or not and, in the case, when and in what terms. We simply call for respect for the role of the opposition. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u128	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, if you will allow me, I would like to speak as Senator Commissioner, as the Senate has been brought into play. I would like to remind all senators - especially President Marcucci - that the Senate is open from Monday to Friday and we are there. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr Marcucci (PD). Then let's work!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u130	What do you want to intervene on, Senator Ferrari? Mr Ferrari (PD). I would like to make an explanation of vote against. President Marcucci spoke on the order of business, as it was not clear at all why the work had been suspended.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u131	[[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u133	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I would like to use this passage to highlight a political fact. Perhaps, for the first time, the majority supporting this Government passes through a very narrow needle eye, with many confusions. This confusion, political, cultural and understanding of the text and of mutual strategies between Movimento 5 Stars and League, is putting us before a request for suspension of which we do not understand the motivation. If it were - I repeat: if it were - a request for suspension motivated by the desire to deepen all the work that has also been highlighted in a wide-ranging general discussion, aimed at revising opinions and submitting new amendments, we would be in favour, maintaining our positions once the work has been completed. But if the suspension is only required because the large amendment we are talking about, on which confidence should be placed, is not ready, or worse, if, in fact, this Government intends to table a large amendment which includes issues that have not been dealt with in the Commission and all this is happening, politically, outside this House, then I believe that this House can only say that it is contrary to the request made. The majority that supports this Government - in particular, the League - shouted for months that immigration, also described by some colleagues who preceded me as a widespread phenomenon, with a social, economic and political dimension never seen, so as to make it one bigger of our time, could be swept away by a law, in a very short time. The discussion these days on the rules that do not achieve any objective, in fact, demonstrate or that this Government does not really have the capacity to maintain that commitment or, more serious, that this Government - and I hope that colleagues of the 5 Star Movement have understood it, not only those dissidents, but also those who have clearly expressed themselves to be right-wing and therefore to support everything that is different from what the central-left governments have done (so it is clear your place) - did not choose to solve the problem precisely to leave it open, just to continue to feed, in the form of fear, of increasing discrimination, racial and not only, in all the most biech forms, that go to make the fabric of humanity of our country weaker, a need that they think is a need of those who, with a strong fist, try to hold this country. I think the Italians will notice. We shall continue to vote by vote - and we say no to this suspension because we want to make an amendment to the amendment - to oppose this measure. There are those who are on the side of the Italians and their lives from all points of view, starting with the humanitarian dimension, which concerns people's lives but also the security of the Italians and there are those who, perhaps without everyone being aware of it in the majority, are using the security of the Italians for political purposes which, in our opinion, should not be in this House. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u134	In accordance with Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, I put the rapporteur's proposal to the vote. It's approved. Mr Ferrari (PD). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. [[Comments of Senator Laus]] We are proceeding against the test, Senator Laus; if you sit down, we will close the doors and you will be able to vote. Thank you. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u137	CORRADO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on Tuesday 23 October the Calabrian Museum Park closed the Sibari Archaeological Park to the public after an extreme weather event. It was not only the violence of yet another lucky man, however, that caused flooding; responsibility must be attributed above all to the recently adopted draining system, which consists of so-called draining trenches. In order to record a drop in water levels it was necessary to reactivate four of the pumps that had been released since 2015, for decades had guaranteed the control of the level of groundwater water, otherwise destined to submerge the ruins. It has not been possible to reattach, to date, the trenches themselves, designed precisely to dispose of rainwater and control the rise of groundwater, guaranteeing the reduction of the large electric consumption imposed by the old wellpoints. It was not possible because the connected collection tanks, built under the Roman roads, are not inspectable. Each re-opening requires the dismantling of the ancient basolate and later its repositioning: long, delicate and expensive operations that risk having to be repeated annually, provided that - it is understood - the holistic superintendence created by Minister Franceschini, which is responsible for the protection, is in agreement with the choices of the museum pole, mere manager of the park. In Sibari, therefore, the problem is not only that of the costs of ordinary maintenance, common to all state archaeological areas open to the public. In Sibari we pay the consequences of technical choices that are certainly innovative, but very impactful in terms of protection, whose core principles have been provisionally set aside in order to realize the trenches, and immediately proved ineffective and inefficient. Nevertheless, after the exodus of Crati in January 2013, those same trenches were extended to the Horse Park to drain not the meteor and groundwater waters but - allow me - much of the famous 18 million euros spent after that disaster. I asked the MIBACT, provocatively, in recent days, to keep the Park of Sibari closed, instead of ingenuating to find a remedy to buffer the emergency. We need, ladies and gentlemen, a rethink of the situation, which I like to think can be slow and lucid. Precisely the haste and superficiality, in fact, combined with the desire for money, have produced today's criticality. A rethink to be entrusted to technicians of high professional profile and immune to the charm of corruption. Is that too much to ask? The cultural heritage of the country cannot be left in the hands of individuals who outside and even in the ranks of the competent Ministry, as happened in Sibari, make their own interest and of third parties, instead of the community, betraying their trust. I therefore hope that Sibari, as a bad example of managing public funds, will become a model of good practice, first and foremost for the administration of cultural heritage itself. It goes in this direction, moreover, the civic contract activated in Sibari for a couple of years through the pact of strict integrity between MIBACT and Actionaid Italy for two projects financed by the European Union, much less rich than those of the draining trenches, but important for the future of the Park and the museum. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u138	I would ask the Members who are leaving the House to respect the senators who are speaking at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u139	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u141	PIRRO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the mayor of Turin, Chiara Appandino, received an intimidating letter on Saturday morning. This episode occurs at the end of a delicate week for the city of Turin, begun with the approval of an agenda of opposition to the TAV and which closed just Saturday with a manifestation of the Yes TAV, indeed little participated. This gesture is the culmination of a vile denigratory campaign, supported also by a part of the media towards Chiara and the entire Turin administration. A set of lies, repeated so many times, to make them seem true. Someone wants to paint Turin as a city in decline, from which everyone flees because of the wrong choices of the current administration. Yet, last weekend in the city hotels were sold out and museums filled. But if the whole of Piedmont, and not only Turin, is struggling to recover from the crisis of 2008 and has paid a higher price than other regions of the North, it can certainly not be the fault of a mayor elected in 2016, but rather of a fragile and poorly governed system for too many years. Clare's fault - a fault for saying - was that she no longer wanted to hide the problems under the carpet, but wanted to face them. Of course, this has triggered the reactions of that "Torino system" of which someone still insists to deny existence; that system that is now launching a heavy offensive against a woman, a mayor, who evidently does not bend to other claims. These attacks also provide the inspiration for the unbalanced or, worse, organized crime, because we remember that in the preliminary work of the TAV the mafia infiltration has already been established, which is afraid of losing rich business. Well, to all of them we strongly say that Chiara Appandino is, even before a great mayor, a great woman, who will not bend and will continue her way with her head high and straight back. Whoever attacks her presumptuously I mean: you will never win. In fact, before you get to her, you'll find us all defending her. And then, as we love to say about Movimento 5 Stars: you can't win against those who never give up. Come on, Chiara! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u144	Mr Pucciarelli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to express my closeness to those who have lost their family members these days in what has manifested itself as the perfect storm. My region, Liguria, has also paid a hard price and is mourning his victim. Added to this is an entire compartment literally on its knees. Just that sea, which brings work and tourism, in these days has literally swept away everything. Today there are no more beaches, there are no more bathing establishments and the tourist season is around the corner, as is the Bolkestein directive around the corner. In the aftermath of the disaster, the bathing sector was in a doubly unfavourable situation. Not only is there considerable damage to be dealt with, but also a situation of widespread uncertainty about the future of concessions, which puts entrepreneurs at a crossroads: investing in the reconstruction of their business, with the fear that in 2020 the axe of Bolkestein will fall on them, or abandon everything. Faced with this situation and bearing in mind the commitment of this majority and the Government to protect the sector from the crazy consequences of the directive, denied even by those who wrote it, I am sure that Parliament and the Government will be able to work to reassure the operators, so that the fear of Bolkestein does not become an integral part of the risk of enterprise, and support the activities through tax breaks. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u147	BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Presidency, which at the beginning of the sitting reminded us very well of the sad facts that have affected us, as a territory, in recent days and days. These events are of particular importance. I come from a region, like my previous colleague, who has suffered a further damage compared to those we all already know, but I have heard many of the speakers talk about hydrogeological failure. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to a given and take back words that have appeared on the communication bodies these days: If you do not touch the tree and drag the river, nature presents the account. The forest lives and must be cared for and the gret of the dredged creek. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Inertia, absence and ignorance are sometimes at the basis of these facts. Mountain protection should be entrusted to local communities. These words are not mine, they are of the interior minister Matteo Salvini, who wanted to send out a message that I not only fully share, but there is no doubt that aid, even economic, is important, but intervention on the territory, those that integrate the management of the territory that man must do, must be allowed. I would almost have to say freely, because we all agree that the salamander rather than the howling toad should be safeguarded, but I believe that people's lives should also be safeguarded, and often and willingly it is a matter of having to make choices about it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Finally, to make understand what we are living in an important reality from a tourist point of view like Liguria, adding that the main tourist resort of our Region is isolated and who knows when it can be connected with the media, if not only by sea, but when the sea is big that place, small but important and known in the world, is isolated. Well, an attempt to connect it by widening a path in order to be able to cope with any need for rescue, is in these hours faced and hindered by absurd forms of living room environmentalism that ask to prevent the enlargement of a path simply because it concerns the territory of a park. I think that even in these cases the problems must be solved and addressed and if elements such as the park are obstructive to the health and salvation of the people, in some cases they must be eliminated. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u150	RIPAMONTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Vincenzina Bruzzone: this is the name of our concitadina of Albisola Superiore who lost her life during the real apocalypse that fell on the Ligurian land and, subsequently, all over the North and beyond, including islands. A sheet metal has detached itself from a roof and struck it to death, tearing it away in a brutal way from the affection of its family members, to whom my personal condolences go, that of the Group to which I belong and, I think I can say, that of the entire Assembly of the Senate. Vincenzina was the only victim of a tragedy that could have had an even more tragic budget and only a miracle of the good God avoided forcing other families to endless pain. From Liguria I lived the fury of this storm with bitterness and discouragement, as well as with understandable dismay. After the tearing wound of the collapse of the Morandi bridge, still mourning, still pain and destruction. Our beaches, which in summer represent the place of carefreeness, the pleasant meeting place of our families and holidaymakers our guests, have been swept away by the devastating fury of the bad weather, which has reduced everything to a pile of debris and rubble, changing at the same time the morphology of that stretch of coast. Roberto Sasso Del Verme, Marco Melgrati, Mauro De Michelis are among the mayors of the municipalities among the most affected. I would like to quote them all in this House, expressing our support and thanks to them, because from the very first moments and moments of the fury they were on the streets, streets and squares of their Municipalities to comfort, support and coordinate the first rescues. Antonio Ugo, Giampiero Colli, Pietro Accame, Roberto Cancellara: instead they are not administrators, but traders, beach entrepreneurs and exhibitors that I cite almost as a general representation of those who have lost their activity, exercise and their own bathing establishment, seeing the sacrifices of a lifetime fade. The administrations, as I said, did not leave them alone, but immediately they were ready to do their duty: to assist the citizens. But I am sure that this Government will have, as it has had for the situation of the Morandi Bridge and its drama, the same sensitivity and the same care for the devastated territories, for all territories no one excluded, and take this opportunity, albeit harmful, to give concrete answers. I will not mention the situation of the beaches already widely described by Senator Pucciarelli, but I am sure of the answers that this Government will give, even in a short time. The Ligurians are a strong people and are hospitable the just. Our grandparents have faces marked by salt and sunshine. Our land is made of water and rocks; here, just as the rocks, the me may spit, but no they break me, Mr. President: they move us, but they don't break us. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u153	COLTORTI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning a number of Members have spoken about the mourning caused by the disasters associated with the exceptional events that have struck our country from the North to the South. Many have said that we must give concrete answers to our citizens and call on the current Government to do so. It seems clear that disasters have multiple reasons which, often, are not only to be traced back to rainy events, even with values far above average. The conditions and vulnerability of the territory play a very important role. Conditions and vulnerabilities are a function of how the territory has been treated and of the initiatives that have been taken to eliminate the dangers and risks. We must therefore ask ourselves what has been done in previous years to identify the danger and the geological risks, because the Italian territory - which everyone recognizes to be fragile - can be more or less fragile according to how it was treated. Everyone regretted that the present Government has cancelled the structure of the safe Italy programme, in which several hundred million euros had been allocated for the hydrogeological failure. It is clear that the interventions have not had great effects. Certainly in recent years there have been more extreme events than in the past, but no one this morning has recalled the importance of climate change associated mainly with CO2 emissions and other greenhouse gases. What policy has been taken to reduce emissions? Now, this government is moving rapidly towards the increasingly widespread use of renewables to store fossil fuels. I also remember that global warming is also associated with the progressive deforestation of humid and equatorial tropical areas. This is to be associated with the increase in the population as well as poverty. In the Saharan areas, on the margins of the Sahara, the main source of income is agriculture and livestock, which take place through deforestation, the same deforestation that in recent years, due to speculation by large multinationals, is affecting the whole of South-East Asia. The deforested areas are overheated more than those with vegetation and this accentuates the thermal contrasts between the emerged areas and the marine ones with accentuation of the phenomena extreme to the medium latitudes, that is, in our country. It is therefore important to intervene as soon as possible and in a massive way on the limitation of emissions and also on the indiscriminate use of forest ecosystems, and this is an action that we must do jointly and cross-cuttingly, seeking an economic model that is more aware of the consequences of human interventions on the atmospheric system. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u156	LEONE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I and my colleagues express their heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims of the bad weather of the past few days in Sicily, it is especially the idea of bringing the domestic hearth closer to death with drowning for the removal of a river: between the victims two children, as in the case of Casteldaccia, while we are still apprehensive about the fate of the young pediatrician from Palermo, dispersed on the way to the workplace, Corleone. On the basis of this I cannot fail to denounce the hydrogeological failure, with decades of abandonment of the territory by the institutions that have determined the current situation; this has also been supported by the austerity policies adopted by the past governments. The time has come to bring the primary interests of our citizens back to the limelight, and security is certainly one of them. It is no longer tolerable that, due to climate change and the obsolescence of our building, road and infrastructure heritage, local authorities do not have resources suitable for ordinary and extraordinary maintenance. It is necessary to give the municipalities the freedom of maneuvering in the management of their territories. In addition, it is urgent to make a record of our building heritage, engage the technical categories and get out of the emerging logic, use local businesses for the maintenance and security of the territories. However, this would give the municipalities oxygen and a positive impact at the microeconomic level in the immediate and, later, at the macro-economic level. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u157	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u159	VALENT (PD). Mr President, I have asked to speak, even if only for a few minutes, in order to draw your attention and that of the House to some episodes that have occurred in recent hours in my land, in Campania. Within a few weeks there was the sixth fire in one of the most significant and most important plants in Campania for the waste disposal cycle. We do not know what is behind these fires and it is right that the judiciary, with the support of all the Forces of the Order, carry out investigations to verify their nature. One thing, however, has left me quite embarrassed and grounded: the strong words of Minister Costa, who declared that we are under attack, announcing, for next November 19, a government intervention. In the meantime, we would like to know what the Government's commitment will be, but above all we would like to take advantage of this opportunity to say that precisely those majority forces that today express the Government and therefore have a government responsibility have been the protagonists of the main and the greatest nos that have been said to the construction of a serious and integrated cycle of waste disposal. Whatever the nature of these fires and fires, it is clear that saturation, but above all the poor functioning of these sites, represent fertile ground for any kind of intervention done to the detriment of these sites, with the threat of course to the health of the citizens, which we care to protect above all else. We agree therefore with the sending of the Forces of order to guard those places, so as to prevent further fires and arson burns or whatever they are. The real point, however, is what measures are being taken by the government and the majority forces today called to exercise government responsibilities. They are obliged not only to say no or what cannot be done and why, but they must say what effective, serious and structural interventions solve a problem that - I remember - weighs on all the citizens of Campania with a tax that is among the highest in Italy, in spite of the fact that the waste cycle in Campania is not self-sufficient and so much waste is taken out of the region or even abroad, with exorbitant costs. In addition, this type of system is a fertile ground for fires that are punctually started and for a type of emergency that could be safely avoided. Today we want to know what are the structural responses that this Government wants to put in place, so just walkways and finally pass, from the no and the demagogy used and speculated also on the people's skin to concrete proposals and series of government. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u160	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u162	SANTILLO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to speak because I have heard many speeches on soil protection today, but after the words of Senator Valente I cannot help it. His requests must go to his president of the Campania Region, of the PD, because he is the culprit of this critical bell. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Go ask De Luca what he did...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u163	Senator Santillo, you were supposed to have an end-of-session speech. You can't have a debate with your colleague, if that's the way I'm gonna take the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u164	SANTILLO (M5S). I'm talking in general, President. The government is implementing measures, as we have heard, and on 19 November there will be a Council of Ministers in Campania, where the situation is critical, there is georeferencing of the sites, there is the proposal to control the sites also through the military and in these days we are hearing what the proposals are. In terms of soil defense, I would like to say how more than fifty years have passed since there was no activity on the territory in this country. We recall the establishment of the Commission De Marchi, which is celebrated on the 50th anniversary of 30 January 2019, and since then, if we do not pass through extraordinary events like Sarno, in reality the Government of the Country has little done and for the first time in this country the Government is putting hand, under ordinary conditions, to emergent effects. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u165	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-53.ana.u166	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Tuesday, November 6, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.00 p.m.
