ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u3	I communicate that on 2 August the following draft law was transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 87 of 12 July 2018 laying down urgent provisions for the dignity of workers and undertakings" (741). The measure was assigned to the Commissions meeting 6a and 11a, with the opinions of Commissions 1a, 2a, 5a, 7a, 8a, 9a, 10a, 12a and 14a. The above-mentioned Commissions shall be authorized to convene each other.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u4	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on draft law No 717. The rapporteur, Senator Borghesi, requested authorization to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u6	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law that we are called upon to examine today is intended to convert a decree-law into law, which extends the time limits for legislative provisions. The measure, as usual, was necessary to provide for the extension of deadlines for the imminent expiry, with the aim of ensuring the continuity, efficiency and effectiveness of administrative action and the operation of funds, including in support of investments, as well as to ensure the completion of the operations of corporate transformations and the conclusion of group agreements provided for in the legislation on popular banks and cooperative credit banks. Let me now pass, briefly, to the illustration of the contents of the decree. As you know, our Rules of Procedure provide that the text before Members is the original text in this House. Therefore, starting from the text of the Government, it is appropriate to take into account the main contents. The measure consists of 14 articles. Article 1 extends time limits for local and regional authorities. In particular, paragraph 1 deals with the criteria for allocating the Experimental Rebalancing Fund for Provinces and Metropolitan Cities. In paragraph 2, the purpose of the provision is to identify a single day on which the elections of the presidents of Province and provincial councillors will take place, whose term of office expires by 31 October 2018, as well as of the respective council or president due by 31 December 2018. In addition to combining the conduct of the elections of the aforementioned offices on a single day, with the effects of simplification and rationalisation, the mandates expire until 31 October 2018 between the date of entry into force of the decree-law under consideration and the said date. Article 2 lays down provisions for the extension of time limits in the field of justice. Paragraph 1 extends the time limit for the application of wiretapping provisions, while paragraph 2 provides for the suspension of the effectiveness of the provisions with organizational measures in the matter of services for participation in the debate at a distance. Article 3 contains rules for the extension of time limits for the environment. In particular, the deadline for denouncing the possession of specimens of invasive alien species is extended. Article 4 extends time limits for infrastructure. Paragraph 1 provides for the extension of time limits for school building programmes, while paragraph 2 extends the time limits for water saving. The provision contained in paragraph 3 intervenes, instead, in the matter of the obligatory nautical licence. Article 5 concerns the extension of social policy deadlines. In particular, the deadline for the entry into force of the pre-compiled Single Replacement Declaration (SSU) is extended in order to allow appropriate technical measures to ensure easier accessibility for citizens. Article 6 extends the time limits for education and universities. Paragraph 1 extends to 30 October 2018 the deadline for the completion of the work of the national committees for national scientific certification. Paragraph 2, on the other hand, extends the terms of recruitment in institutions of high training and artistic and musical specialization (AFAM). Paragraph 3 extends the deadline for Italian schools abroad, allowing the regular start of the school year 2018-2019 in the system of Italian education in the world. Article 7 extends the time limits for culture. In particular, it is expressly foreseen to extend the benefit of the cultural bonus for the year 2018. Article 8 extends time limits in the field of health. Paragraphs 1 and 2 cover the requirements of veterinary medicinal products and medicated feed according to the electronic recipe model, while paragraph 3 concerns the premium quotas for the financing of the National Health Service. Paragraph 4 lays down rules for the extension of private investment in hospital facilities in Sardinia. Article 9 extends the time limits for seismic events. Paragraph 1 deals with the recovery of aid related to seismic events in the Abruzzo Region, while paragraph 2 deals with the repartition of the Municipal Solidarity Fund in the municipalities of the crater Emilia-Romagna, hit by the earthquake in 2012, and the crater of L'Aquila, for the earthquake of 2009. Article 10 concerns the extension of time limits for sport. Article 11 extends time limits for popular banks and cooperative banking groups. Article 12, in order to allow the continuation for the year 2018 of Italian export support activities, already financed by Article 1, paragraph 140, of Law No 232 of 2016, provides for a refinancing of the Fund referred to in Article 37, second paragraph, of Decree-Law No 745 of 1970, for EUR 480 million. The refinancing of the Fund is urgent and necessary in order to avoid the suspension of operations due to the current lack of availability for new operations. As is well known, the Fund is intended to provide interest subsidies to support export financing (through buyer credit and supplier credit operations) and financing for internationalisation. Article 13 contains an extension of time limits for financing investment and infrastructure development in the country. Finally, Article 14 contains the provision concerning the entry into force of the decree on the day following its publication in the Official Journal. In the course of the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has been intensive because of the short time available, many issues have been addressed, corresponding to the numerous proposals for amendments received almost from all the groups present in this House. We have dealt with each other and have carefully and rigorously assessed many issues. Several amendments have been adopted and will now be put to the vote by the House as proposed by the Commission, as per the Rules of Procedure. Others have been rejected; still others have been declared inadmissible due to extraneousness with the object of the decree or inadmissible due to lack of financial coverage. I will try, briefly, to make a comprehensive picture of the main innovations resulting from the Commission's work, although I am aware that the proposals adopted are many and would require a much richer and wider illustration of what, given the tight deadlines, we can afford. In particular, the first article approved an amendment to the elections for the Presidents of the Province, to be held on 31 October. During this electoral round it is now envisaged that, by way of derogation from a provision of the Delrio law, mayors whose term of office shall expire no later than 12 months from the date of the vote. Article 1 has also been approved an amendment concerning the control procedure, referred to in paragraph 7 of Article 243-c of Legislative Decree no. 267 of 18 August 2000, Another amendment to Article 1 is that which extends for a further year the time limit within which to carry out the disposals related to the holdings held by public administrations after appropriate reconnaissance. An Article 1-a was adopted, extending the time limits for local authorities' financial spaces. In the area of justice, a number of amendments were adopted to extend the restoration of the detached sections of the courts of Ischia, Lipari and Portoferraio. In Article 2, too, an amendment was adopted which increases the extension period from five to seven years for the entry into force of the new rules concerning the examination of qualifications in the practice of the profession of lawyer. Article 3 refers in particular to an amendment extending to 2020 the entry into force of the free market in the electricity and gas sectors for final consumers. Amendments to Article 4 have been adopted concerning interventions relating to extraordinary maintenance programmes for the road network of Provinces and Metropolitan Cities. After Article 4, an Article 4-a was inserted, extending time limits for local broadcasters. In Article 6, in particular, an amendment extending the time limits for school buildings to comply with fire regulations was adopted. Also in Article 6 some amendments have been approved that differ to the school year 2018-2019 the application of the provisions contained in Article 3 of Decree-Law 7 June 2017, n. 73. In Article 8, on health, amendments were adopted on electronic cigarettes and homeopathic medicines. In Article 9, amendments have been adopted which reduce or cancel the cuts made in the past years to the Municipal Solidarity Fund. In Article 10, an amendment on the adaptation of the ACI to the provisions of the recent legislative decree on participating companies was approved. In Article 11, additional amendments were adopted on the suspension of the capital share of loans and loans and on the registration in the register of undertakings of entities engaged in the activities of agent and trade representative. Finally, in Article 13, several amendments were adopted, including one concerning financial spaces for the regions and two extending deadlines for the single book of telematic work. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u7	I would ask colleagues if they could lower the level of the buzz. The minority rapporteur, Senator Collina, has requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u8	Mr President, I shall read a part of the report that we have already submitted to the proceedings, adding some elements and then reserving myself in my reply to do some in-depth analysis, also in the light of what will be the general discussion in its contents, since the discussion in the first Commission was essentially a monologue of oppositions, which expressed a political assessment of the content of the decree-law and the amendments tabled. Clearly, the need for time has in some way advised the majority to proceed without any intervention to give us any indication of the political will behind the measures contained within the milleprorogane, so I hope that the more political aspects will be able to address them and to unravel them in reply and explanation of vote on the amendments. Clearly, the use of the instrument of the decree forced the Commission to examine the text in very short terms, greatly limiting the possibility of developing an in-depth debate in the Commission on the meaning and functionality of the proposed amendments. The Commission's legislative investigation is thus mortified and severely limited. It is astonishing how the political forces of the present majority, who had promised, even by adhering to the reform of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, a renewed centrality of the Commission's activities in the context of a rediscovered centrality of the parliamentary institution in the exercise of its legislative function, are abusing without any modesty of the decree of urgency, in clear violation of the constitutional dictation. Those who, in the recent past, have been defending the Republican Constitution, opposing proposals for revision that promoted a faster legislative process, today are intent on crowding the work of the Chambers of Decree-Laws in conversion into contempt of Parliament's prerogatives on the legislative function. In examining the decree-law, there are also significant doubts regarding the constitutional legitimacy of the provision for the absence of the essential requirements for the use of the instrument of the decree-law indispensable for its legitimate use. The mere declaration of necessity and urgency is not sufficient to justify the adoption of a decree-law if, as in the measure under consideration, the content of the decree fails to comply with the requirements laid down in Article 77 of the Constitution. I recall, incidentally, the decision of the Constitutional Court No 22 of 2012, which clearly stated that the so-called "multiprorogation decrees" which, now every year (here is another element of novelty, because this is a one thousandprorogation decree of midsummer, since, before the elections, such a measure had been adopted at the same time as the budget law), are converted into law by the Chambers, although they adhere to different and heterogeneous material fields, they must obey the unitary ratio of acting urgently on the expiry of terms whose course would be detrimental to interests deemed relevant by the Government and the Parliament, or to affect existing situations, albeit related to different objects and subjects, which require regulatory interventions of a temporal nature. If the disciplines outside the unitary ratio of the decree-law presented, according to the political judgement of the Government, autonomous profiles of necessity and urgency, the same well could be contained in urgent acts of the executive power separate and separate. On the other hand, it is contrary to Article 77 of the Constitution to the combination and overlapping, in the same legislative act, of heterogeneous objects and purposes, in view of their heterogeneous assumptions. This last case concerns, with all evidence, the present decree-law. In fact, the report of the majority rapporteur himself showed the heterogeneity of its aims, listing, as the aims of the decree-law, on the one hand, the guarantee of continuity, efficiency and effectiveness of administrative action and the operation of funds for the purposes of investment support and, on the other hand, the need to ensure the completion of the operations of corporate transformations and the conclusion of group agreements provided for in the legislation on popular banks and cooperative credit banks. Moreover, the heterogeneity of the content has increased during the parliamentary examination. The topics addressed were, if possible, expanded. The amendments adopted are in fact numerous and heterogeneous and have further complicated a framework in which the minimum unitary ratio typical of the so-called thousandprorogation decree has also been forgotten, namely that of urgent action on the expiry of time limits which would be detrimental to interests deemed important by the Government and the Parliament. An example that is valid for all and that highlights the intention to widen the areas of intervention of the decree-law far beyond what would be possible is represented by the approval of an amendment that moves to change the financial spaces of the Regions regarding the previously previewed, without moreover respecting the usual procedures of consultation of the local authorities through the Conference of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces. There are serious concerns about the substance of the measure itself. Article 1, paragraph 2, sets 31 October 2018 the date for the holding of provincial elections and extends the term of office of the Presidents of Province and provincial councillors until that date. The provision also provides for elections to be held at the same time as the respective Provincial Council or President of the Province, if it expires by the end of its term of office by 31 December 2018. The provision under consideration does not take into account that, to date, the deadlines of the provincial mandates are as follows: 47 Presidents of the Province expire by October 2018, 12 Provincial Councils by October 31, 2018, 15 Councils by December 31, 2018, 43 Councils by January 2019. The election day proposed by the Government is not feasible on the date of 31 October, because the majority of the Provinces of the Regions under ordinary statute (well 43), according to the provision introduced, will be forced to convene the elections for the renewal of the organs in October, for the President of the Province, and in January, for the Provincial Council, with a clear duplication of procedures and costs. The amendment to the Commission also introduced new derogations from the current rules, allowing the mayors of the Province, whose term of office expires no earlier than 12 months from the date of the elections, to stand as President of the Province. The forecast of the election day to 31 October 2018 for the 15 Provinces whose Councils expire by 31 December 2018 implies an early termination of the mandate that raises serious doubts of constitutionality, especially because it is not justified by a more comprehensive intervention of revision of the law 7 April 2014, n. 56 (so-called Delrio law). This situation therefore confirms the need for legislative intervention that overcomes the current precariousness of the provincial government's structure in order to give a certain perspective of the reorganization of the discipline in this matter and the current provincial bodies that carry out important functions in the economic and social context in their reference territories. Among the other measures, it should be briefly mentioned that Article 2 suspends until 15 February 2019 the effectiveness of the provisions of Law No 103 of 2017, with which changes have been made to the discipline of participation in criminal proceedings by videoconference, revealing the inability of the current Executive to intervene promptly, where required, technical interventions. An inability which results in a serious dilatory attitude leading to a postponement of the application of provisions which are particularly relevant for the speedy acquisition of evidence in proceedings relating to crimes of particular social danger. I start by concluding, briefly quoting other points that will then be addressed more precisely in the general discussion by my colleagues in the Democratic Party, because there are some issues that further throw the country into uncertainty on some issues of absolute importance. Once again there has been a lack of intervention on the issues related to the earthquake and earthquakes of Central Italy, and not only, but the Government in the Commission has given further assurances on the next interventions in the budget law (we will see if so). All legislation related to interceptions has been extended. On vaccines, which is an absolutely sensitive matter for the whole country and is linked to the safety of our families, there is a significant stop on which we will have a chance to reflect. Other issues are related to infrastructure, cultural bonuses and the reform of cooperative credit banks, an issue on which you try to take time. In general, this is a thousand-pronged measure that takes time. It is a majority that probably needs to break in, to understand what are the points of contact between two so different political experiences. But who suffers the consequences of this delay of the times? The country. Therefore, we are also here to highlight these aspects and to try to make our contribution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u9	I declare the general discussion open. Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u10	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government (which I do not see in their place: I would ask them to return to their benches if possible)... Well, today we are in the process of general discussion on the decree-milleproroghe law. Since 2005 this bad habit of Italian politics has been perpetrated by various governments. I remember when the majority of those who today sat screaming from the benches of the then opposition against the milleproroghe saying that they would never do so. Today we find ourselves with a thousandprorogues presented by the so-called yellow-green government; a thousandprorogues which, moreover, has also seen a virtually null dialogue with the rest of Parliament: a thousandprorogues that in fact did not grasp the dialogue and the confrontation with the oppositions. This is a fact which certainly does not support the good intentions which Parliament had expressed in the past years with a view to improving parliamentary activity. However, going into the substance, leaving out a thousandprorogues that, as we have seen, in the 14 articles that characterize it jumps from the intercepts to the veterinary recipes, we can notice how the focus, perhaps the most structural element of this decree-law, on which I would like to entertain, is the reform of the cooperative credit, that is to say the reform of the so-called Renzi-Padoan reform. That reform that first had a negative impact on the popular banks and that could - I use the conditional - have had a very heavy impact on the cooperative credit: that is, it has a very heavy impact on a peculiarity of our banking system, that is, the cooperative credit. That credit that in mutuality and territoriality expresses its characterization, which allows it to respond to the particularity of our enterprise system and to the particularity of our territory. Those who live in the outskirts of this country, in the valleys (like me who come from Trentino), know what function they have played and perform the rural coffers, the cooperative credit, those banks that have their doors also in the towns and in the most remote landscapes of our territory; those banks that allow our companies to have anyway, a short distance from their companies and their homes, a door and, therefore, an interlocutor in the financial field. And it is the same need that citizens, the elderly and pensioners have. If there were no cooperative credit, as the facts show, the so-called banks of national interest, the large banks, the two large groups that have remained in our country today, would have, as they have done, abandoned the peripheral territories. We do not want the cooperative system, in terms of speculation and financial interest, to de facto move away from the specific needs of our territory. Well, if the Renzi-Padoan reform, if the cooperative credit reform had remained such or remained so, with a minimum capitalization of the BCCs in the parent company of 51%, as it was in the initial hypothesis, surely the mutuality and territoriality of the cooperative credit would be put at risk shortly. We therefore welcome the fact that the Government has accepted the proposal that I, on behalf of the Fratelli d'Italia Group and during the hearing of Minister Tria, made, calling for the minimum capitalisation to be raised by 51% to at least 60%. This will not be a security, but at least a security, in a certain way, the assets of the leaders, who will necessarily remain in the hands of the rural coffers for at least 60%. We hope that this path will be further improved by the Government, in the 180-day moratorium that provides for the decree-law, so that the capitalization of central banks by cooperative credit banks becomes stronger and more structural. We also appreciate - and we also ask the Government to be even more incisive and armored - that it has been foreseen that the capitalization of the leader can only be modified by a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers and no longer by a mere ministerial decree. In this respect, however, we ask that the possibility of falling below 60% be really limited to the maximum, that is to say to cases of serious disruption and, however, after having travelled all the alternative ways to prevent financial capital from actually governing the cooperative credit system. To descend, in fact, below 60% would have wanted to say just this: to give in hand the finance, the speculative and obvious strategies of high finance, the possibility to affect the mutual, territorial and special aims of cooperative credit. We also appreciate that it has been high in the governance of the ICREA central banks in half plus two the mandatory presence of the board members. We hope, however, that the incisiveness and the potential to affect the governance of the individual rural coffers, even today, by virtue of the reform in place, in the hands of the leaders, may be as limited as possible. Vice Minister Garavaglia, Lords of the Government, I strongly ask you to work to ensure that the individual rural coffers, especially when their assets allow it, can have that autonomy in the management bodies that alone can guarantee them the maintenance of their own purposes and of their own dialogue with the territory. We do not want, Mr President, that the single box, the leader (i.e. the structure which has, in its DNA, a obviously more speculative and profit-oriented function), can immediately govern the individual rural coffers. To conclude, we hope that this will be revised, within the framework of the significant size of the parent companies, also according to the characteristics of the individual participating banks: in fact, if the individual banks are more virtuous, I think that the leader might also have different dimensions. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u11	Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u12	Mr President, can you tell me what time I have, please? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. His time is five minutes. Don't worry, time is a convention. Thank you, I'll take that into account. Mr President, I would like to speak, also in view of the small time available to me, in particular on Article 2 (1) of the thousand-pronged decree. The first obvious observation is that even this majority, which had so much reproached in the past years the use of the instrument of the decree and the extension of the measures, is using it even in advance; normally, in fact, this measure was done at the end of the year, instead this time it is being done between July and August, in the preferred period (but, perhaps, there will be the understanding of using another one towards the end of the year). The extension of the entry into force of the wiretapping reform leaves us very perplexed. The reasons which the Minister had given, when he left the Council of Ministers which issued the decree-law, were clearly pretentious. It was simply the usual accusation that was made, in particular, to the Democratic Party and in any case to the majority of the last legislature, saying that they wanted to put the gag on the right to information, that they wanted to prevent the citizens from knowing the conversations of politicians. All this means only two things: either the Minister did not know the content of the reform or all these reasons were instrumental. The reasons given in the explanatory memorandum to this measure are instrumental in justifying the extension. Indeed, the thousand-pronged decree, or rather the extension of the reform, denotes a lack of knowledge of it, because the reasons, as I said, are absolutely pretentious. The reform that had been approved, in fact, goes exactly in the opposite direction; obviously it is not known that it had the role of interceptions as a fundamental instrument of investigation, which created a fair balance between the secrecy of correspondence and any other form of communication and, consequently, the balance with the right to information. In truth, what was it? It is not understood, in fact, how it can be said that it cannot be used, since the interceptions are used daily. There is therefore nothing, there is no adjustment and the motivation is clearly pretentious and has objectives different from those denounced by the current majority of government and in particular by the Minister of Justice. In fact, the crime of spreading, recording and recording fraudulent communications has been introduced in order to avoid that the interceptions are used instrumentally to denigrate maybe even someone who has nothing to do with the investigations. Greater protection of confidentiality has been introduced in communications between the lawyer and the assisted. It is a question of safeguarding an elementary right of defence: we live in a world of legal civilization and this concept was simply expanded by the content of the provision on telephone interceptions. The prohibition on the transcription of communications or conversations deemed irrelevant was also envisaged. We know - we are all aware of this - that there are subjects totally unrelated to the hypothesis of crime that have been ruined by the spread of this news. Therefore - starting to conclude because time is tyrant - the Government must explain to us why it wants to prolong the entry into force of a rule of legal civilization, which finally brings to system the right balance between the right of defence and the right to information, which protects more all citizens and not the political class, which has nothing to do with it because it is treated in the same way as all citizens. We would like to know this from the Government and that is why we have tabled the deleted amendments to paragraph 1 and 2 of Article 2 and we insist that they be adopted. We are in a civil legal system and we were expanding the legal civilization of our country; otherwise the government will explain the reasons for this extension. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u13	He's enlisted to speak Senator Iannone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Article 1 of the measure before us contains the vexed question concerning the Provinces. Law No. 56 of 2014, the so-called Delrio law (rebaptized by local administrators "delirium law") represented an example of legislative psychiatry. In fact, it was the pilot of the wrong reforms, thought badly and written worse; written only from the preliminary point of view that the constitutional referendum of December 2016 could find only a judgment of acceptance by the Italian people. This law has caused enormous damage to the territories by completely mortifying the dignity of the Provinces provided for in the Constitution: we are in the presence of an institutional level that has been completely destroyed, that is no longer able to represent itself and, above all, that is not in a position to give answers to citizens even on the functions left over from the Provinces. We find ourselves, especially in the suburbs of our nation, which we know to be first and foremost made up of Provinces, with thousands of kilometers of provincial roads abandoned to themselves, which have not received ordinary maintenance for more than four years. The same reasoning applies to secondary schools, with many operators and pupils taking very serious risks for their safety. The Delrio law also discriminated against the employees of the Provinces, i.e. their human capital, which was forced into mobility procedures and also took the theoretical risk of dismissal, even though they were civil servants. The citizens have been exonerated by the vote: there is a policy that generates another political level, without being in a position to produce results. As we know, the elections concerning the President of the Province are inconsistent with those concerning provincial councillors, with the theoretical possibility also to create what is called a dull duck, with an expression of a political party president and a majority in the Council expressing the other political party. The budgets have been brought to the fore in a scientific way: a state failure, against which, even in cases where it is not possible to approve, there is not even the possibility of intervention by the prefecture, as provided for in the single text of the local authorities. I wanted to remember all this in order to summarize only the enormous contradictions and functional failures that produced the Delrio law. With the rule of extension contained in Article 1 of the measure to our examination, it seems that we move from legislative psychiatry, to creative legislation, because to imagine setting the extension deadline to 31 October 2018 means ignoring that not for all 47 Presidencies, which will expire at that time, the Councils also expire. The Brothers of Italy Group has married the amendments proposed by the Union of Italian Provinces and I have tabled a proposal for reform of the institutional structure, which is necessary, because we cannot make reforms by removing only one piece of the old architecture, as was done with the Delrio law. There is a need for organic reform, because the regions, which today should only make programming, instead do a lot of management, and the municipalities are abandoned to their destiny, especially the smallest ones, while the provincial capitals are often victims of the behavior of satraps of the Province of many mayors. It is not right that citizens pay the consequences of written choices, because those of the realities of the smallest municipalities pay the same taxes as those who live in metropolitan realities or in larger municipalities and are entitled to the same, identical services. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Without the governing body in the vast area this possibility is absolutely precluded. Everyone in this House is well aware of the experience of local administrators, provincial councillors and presidents of the Provinces, what Delrio law has represented. I return to the subject of the extension, because we have also tabled an amending proposal in the hope that a shift to 31 January 2019 will represent a moment of reflection within Parliament, in order to return to universal suffrage. The leadership of the institutions must be decided by the citizens. This extension even provides for the possibility to dissolve the Councils in advance of the date of the President. I knew the institute of extension, not that of the "anticipate," which would certainly generate a case of unconstitutionality of this norm. I shall conclude, Mr President, with a passage on Article 10, which concerns the Universias. I had the opportunity at the hearing to express to the Undersecretary Giorgetti all my doubts regarding the delays related to this important event, which will be an international showcase for Campania and Italy. We risk to make a fool of ourselves, for the permanent quarrel and for the extreme irresponsibility of the president of the Campania Region De Luca and the mayor of Naples De Magistris. There are ten months to celebrate the event and absolutely nothing is ready, from the structures that must host the events to the choice of the village where the athletes are located. I would have expected from the government not a pilatesque choice, but to take over the operations, to ensure that the bell towers and Italy do not receive the humiliation for the quarrel of two men, which denotes... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u15	Thank you, Senator Iannone. I had her finish the subject, even with a few more seconds.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u17	Mr President, senators and senators, members of the Government, my speech focuses mainly on Article 2 of this decree-law, particularly on paragraph 1, for reasons completely opposed to those previously reported by Senator Cucca of the PD, who, from his point of view, supports the acceleration of the entry into force of the implementation of a rule amending the discipline of the system of interceptions of communications and conversations. Well, the position of Forza Italia was contrary then to that reform, because it was absolutely insufficient reform, not able to guarantee the right of defence, which was compromised, and above all not able to ensure a central moment in the life of our trial, that is, the secrecy of investigations. It is now well known and it is an absolutely consolidated practice the short media-judicial circuit to which we have been accustomed and almost mitridated, so today we are absolutely indifferent to neglecting the presumption of not guilty and we are also convinced that the retroactivity of the penal norm exists. This House had a bad example and a bad page when it applied a rule retroactively to a Senator of the Republic, violating a fundamental principle of the Constitution. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Well, we haven't forgotten about these things. We have expressed opposition to Article 2 of the milleproroghe not only for a reason of method, but essentially for a reason of merit, because we could not accept some principles contained in the so-called reform of the discipline of interceptions. Already then, when examining the draft legislative decree n. 216 of 2017, implementing the delegation, in the Commission justice the position of Forza Italia was clear: violation and strong compression of the right of defence, insufficient time for the examination of the registrations by the new article 268-b of the Code of Criminal Procedure and absolute lack of clarity of the news article 293 of the same code. Perplexity that was then taken over by many prosecutors, indeed by the prosecutors of the major Italian cities because that reform, which the PD then wanted at all costs, is actually based on an assumption for us absolutely not acceptable, that is to say that the lawyers are the main responsible for the leaks of news during the phase of the preliminary investigations. This is not true, or it can only be done in the slightest, because the dissemination of information takes place only at the time of the deposit of the acts in the prosecutions, therefore, obviously, the leak of news must be sought elsewhere. We are also certain, with regard to the other doubt that we have raised, that the application of the new computer capture devices, as planned and regulated, is free from vices and abuses. Well: we, I repeat, were against because we considered the Orlando reform absolutely insufficient. I would like to recall the words of a magistrate, sometimes uncomfortable but certainly keen in his remarks, when the reform was approved. I am referring to Dr Nordio, who said that the reform is the maximum of the efforts allowed with the minimum of the results pursued. The only thing you should have done and didn't do is implement a code. The intercepts are means of research of the test, they are not means of proof. The phone calls aren't just evidence. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You have allowed Parliament to waste time implementing fundamental principles of our system. Friends of the North League often quote, rightly, the words of Nordio. Recently, in this House, your secretary, Minister of the Interior, Salvini, who referred to the words of Nordio on instrumental use, indeed on the abuse of the preventive seizure against a political force that today governs the country and that certainly has the consent of the Italians. Friends of the League, we will then see you at work not only in the request for an extension of an act that for us is not extendable, but in the merit of the reform of the interceptions and in ensuring that in this country finally the investigations remain reserved to guarantee the right of citizens. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u19	Mr President, I am speaking on Article 2 of this measure in the field of justice, as a member of the Justice Commission, to express my satisfaction and my colleague Mr Stancanelli for the adoption of the first-signed amendment by Senator La Russa, which has led to the extension of the entry into force of the new rules on examination for the profession of lawyer. As you know, the candidates have currently prepared themselves with a discipline that allows the use of the commented codes. It would have been absurd, after the candidates had prepared themselves knowing that they could use these codes, Forbid him. We are therefore satisfied with the adoption of this amendment. On the other hand, we are perplexed and do not understand the reasons why other of our amendments were rejected in the matter of the honorary judge of peace and in the matter of cassationist lawyers, because they met requests more than reasonable made by these same categories. We hope that the House will be able to consider these amendments with a favourable opinion. I take advantage of the time available to me, Mr President, always in the area of justice, to express the satisfaction of my Group for the brilliant result achieved by the forces of order that have obtained a rapid assessment of the persons responsible for the serious act of injury to our athlete Daisy Osakue who risks, indeed, losing also an important competitive opportunity because of the trauma reported. To this athlete goes the embrace of the whole Gruppo Fratelli d'Italia. And I would also like to express my satisfaction at the fact that, finding that the person responsible for what seemed to the left a serious act of racism is actually the son of a PD advisor, suddenly, it has become an act of goliardy. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and L-Sp-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u20	Beyond the controversy, we join the satisfaction for the action of the Forces of Order. He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u21	Mr President, I am delighted that those responsible for this matter have been promptly identified, but let me remind the honourable Member that this morning the parish priest of Vicofaro informed us that yesterday evening some young Italians, with a racist cry, with an epithet that I do not feel like repeating in this Chamber, shot two shots at a migrant hospitalized and welcomed to the church of that city. So we must not underestimate what is happening in this country: I address in particular to my colleague who seemed to want to remove everything that we are recording in recent weeks.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u22	We hope that in this case too we will soon identify those responsible.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u23	COMINANCES (PD). Of course, Mr. President. PIANASSO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Must have been another PD guy! COMINANCES (PD). But there is no doubt that this happening has a racist nature, given the words used. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Continue with the theme of the intervention, Senator Beginini. COMINANCES (PD). Returning to the measure, at the moment I would like to focus on Article 1, relating to referrals concerning the Delrio law, not without having first specified to my colleagues who have already spoken and to the whole House that the Delrio reform did not provide for any cuts in the resources of the territorial authorities. We must be able to separate the aspects of the construction of governance, which the Delrio law has drawn within a system vision, which we have had, from budgetary aspects: these are two extremely different and diversified issues. Yesterday, the Vice-President of the Di Maio Council, answering a question, wanted to stress further in this House that the Government intends to reduce waste, of whatever nature and gender. We do not understand why, therefore, in the measure under consideration there is a complex articulation of the postponement and advance of the elections of the presidents of the Province and the provincial councils, such as to generate not only problematic gaps for the action of the same Provinces, but also useless costs for the administrations, because, in some cases, two different elections must be convened in a few weeks. Now, in view of the differentiated deadlines of the presidents of the Provinces and of the Council, it is clear that what is planned is not feasible on 31 October, because the majority of the Provinces of the Regions with ordinary statute - 43 - according to the provision introduced, will be forced to convene the elections for the renewal of the organs in October for the President of the Province and in January for the Provincial Council, as I said earlier, with a clear duplication of procedures and costs. Moreover, the forecast of the election day as of December 31, 2018, for the 15 Provinces whose Councils expire by December 31, 2018, involves an early interruption of the mandate that has raised in several subjects and analysts also doubts of constitutionality, especially in the absence of an organic intervention of revision of the law n. 56 of 2014. The Delrio law provided for a series of measures in the hypothesis - certainly hoped for by the Democratic Party - that constitutional reform would be approved by the December 2016 referendum. This has not happened and it has not yet been possible to intervene in redesigning the overall structure of the territorial bodies of the State. While waiting for this to happen, it is not possible to think of breaking the election of Presidents in this way. It will be necessary to unify the date to facilitate the work of the Provinces and avoid waste of public money in the organization of double elections for Presidents and Councils. I hope that in the debate on the amendments there will be room for and listening to the majority to accept what we are saying and that other parts have also been highlighted. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u24	Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we have already made it clear what aspects of unconstitutionality this decree-law presents, in our opinion, in view of the non-existent reasons for urgency. I understand that this is very difficult, but if we try to stay away from rhetoric, then there is a change from the past: the only change is that we will make two thousand-pronged measures. Confirming our negative vote, I would like to highlight three aspects: the first - which colleagues before me have highlighted - concerns the issue of the Provinces and local authorities. A series of extensions are envisaged here, without, however, resolving the problem in any way, nor from the point of view of the objective mismatch between the elections of the presidents of the provincial councils and the provincial councils. We cannot give responsibility for this to the Delrio law, which, in my opinion, is a law that has shown dramatic limitations. It's a choice the government wanted to make. We also tried in the Commission to find a synthesis between the different hypotheses, but that was not possible either. We, like other colleagues, have tried to support the Union of Provinces' amendments. That was not possible. Frankly I didn't even understand why; perhaps there are reasons you would prefer not to say. What I want to stress is that, beyond referrals, we are faced with a serious and serious problem which concerns the structure of the municipalities and provinces. I didn't understand what the government was going to do about it. I would have appreciated the fact that in the face of the need to make some referrals, the government had told us what strategy it was working for. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u26	I would ask colleagues to pay attention to Senator Errani's speech, which is interesting. Please, if you really have something to discuss, take him out of the Chamber. I'm sorry to interrupt you, Senator Errani, but I did it to your advantage.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u27	Indeed, Mr President, thank you for your appreciation. It is that the only topical moment in this House is when there is something that should not be in this House: that is the problem. Having said that, the real problem is: what strategy do you have with regard to local authorities and provinces? There's a resource problem as big as a house. There is a problem of motivation that concerns staff working in local authorities, because we cannot continue to talk about washing cards, when attention does not go to thieves and idlers. We cannot continue to have a public administration to which we are responsible and which we must then respond from a criminal and financial point of view, when in the meantime we do not give training, nor are we able to deal with the problems. It is a matter that you must consider and resolve, perhaps through a project of years, but this cannot go on. Then, without organic action, the commitments and announcements on the efficiency and quality of public administration would be just words. A second issue that I would like to mention is the earthquake, on which everything has been substantially postponed. I only come here to point out one point. There is a commitment of the Government to which we have given confidence: I refer to the fact that in the next budget law must be addressed all the issues that concern central Italy, L'Aquila, on which there is a great urgency - I remember that the Government had undertaken to give a very rapid response to the problems of L'Aquila - and Emilia. From this point of view, for example, to return to the speech of the local authorities, there is a big problem with the presence of personnel able to deal with the scale of reconstruction. Answers are essential on this. We continue to have confidence, but then we need the facts. One final point concerns the issue of vaccines.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u28	Excuse me, Senator Errani. I would like to invite those Members who stand in the Chamber on my right and who turn their backs on the Presidency to take their seats. I know you trust me, ladies and gentlemen, but do not turn your back to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u29	Mr Grillo has rightly said that it is wrong to have an ideological approach to vaccines. I agree. Given that the data demonstrate the effectiveness of the measure on vaccines, I should like to know why this new derogation should be made. Are we sure that this is a non-ideological intervention, and that it is aimed at the good of the citizens? I would have understood the commitment to enact a law amending the measure approved by the previous government, but I do not understand the extension, which makes us run the risk of taking steps backwards. That seems like an ideological attitude to me. For these reasons too, our vote will be against. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u30	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that we were waiting for this measure with a little curiosity and a little anxiety. In fact, we had been confronted with the majority of the earthquake measure and, on several occasions, in the Commission, it was said that the discussion of the thousand-pronged decree - in October, after the resumption of the work - would be anticipated to try to settle several of the things that, instead, in the "decree" earthquake could not be dealt with and discussed. When we saw that the majority were preparing to present a thousand-pronged decree, even with great urgency and vehemence, we had well hoped and we said: perhaps they would have found a few euros, they would have reasoned among themselves that there were measures of the previous Government that had to be settled, improved in the contents and specified in the details, whose terms had to be extended. But none of this: fourteen articles of ordinary administration, a thousandprorogations which by its very nature leads to reason in the Commission and then in the Chamber, to verify together where and how to improve the measure, which is absolutely armored, closed, with a state of mind of the waterproof majority and also a bit wise. In a nutshell, we do not understand that it has to do with the urgency that you have called - just now Senator Errani rightly questioned also the constitutional profiles - which are actually missing. It is a barren measure, and of its 14 articles there is only one that could not be examined in October or November. I therefore expect the rapporteur in his reply to give us clarification of the urgency. I repeat that, if we go along with bringing a thousand-fold in the immediate vicinity of the summer break, it would be natural to think that we were going to do something positive and that we were not able to verify it. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, we are forced to wait for the next thousand-fold. And this happens with a majority of the change, the great part of which had anticipated that never a thousandprorogues would be reworked because ugly and cacophonic, an oxymoron compared to the new course, and then, instead, we have to see two to have something concrete. You guys gonna make another one? Just think - for example - about the whole part of the reconstruction. For the second time, I am speaking in this House to emphasize that there are pieces of Italy waiting to meet the State with capital S; the state that shows up, is aware, solves some problems, puts in place a few comma in the many regulations that accompany private citizens and technicians engaged in the process of reconstruction, which has not yet started, colleagues. The reconstruction, in Italy, is not there: do we understand it or do we not understand it? With regard to all this, there are a number of amendments which I do not understand where they are. I would like to understand - for example - from the rapporteur who is not now present in the Chamber or from the representatives of the Government - what a problem involves an amendment that simply says that the derogation from the minimum and maximum number of pupils in crater schools is extended, among other things in the presence of a very serious risk of depopulation. Those people haven't seen the reconstruction start yet. Those people are still housed in wooden houses, partly in hotels, at friends' homes or with their own accommodation. What is the problem, then, with the adoption of an amendment like this? Another problem is that the bodies that must begin to face the reconstruction must unravel so-called practices; the special offices for reconstruction (USR) are already flooded today; if due to inertia the reconstruction has not yet started, always because of inertia now those blessed practices begin to arrive. The offices that must carry out the practices are full of collaborators who have fixed-term contracts, atypical contracts. If we do not extend the validity of these contracts, the bodies (both the technical offices of the Municipalities, and the special offices of the reconstruction) will find themselves without staff available. They will have even less of what they have today, which is largely insufficient. Colleagues, what then precludes an extension of the fixed-term recruitment of the collaboration contracts of the institutions? We are talking not about private individuals who do business or speculation, but about the bodies that must proceed to the construction. There's no cover? Do you need cover to extend by two or three months? Find the cover, come on! What else do you take to make a thousand-pronged decree? What's that for? I could give a lot of other examples. I am an incurable optimist and I therefore want to conclude my speech with something that we are likely to be able to bring home. It's a banality, a nonsense. I am referring to the extension of the electronic recipe for veterinary doctors. We discussed this in the Health and Health Commission and we have already voted in favour of the extension to 1 December of this year. We have explained the many reasons why the measure needs a further extension. Italy is the country that has accepted the directive more quickly than all others. Maybe we did it for other more important things. But that's why we did it, and that's okay. So, we have room for extension. The vets and pharmacists aren't ready. There are country vets who don't even have computers, because they run around the stables. Compared to all this banality of circumstances, we then proposed a simple extension to 1 February 2019. The Health and Health Commission gave a favourable opinion and the opinion of the Budget Commission was of no obstacle. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs cut at 31 December. Let's see if the mountain succeeds in giving birth to the mouse, allowing at least the extension of a simple veterinary electronic recipe to 1 February 2019. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u32	Senator Bini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, I am speaking in this House on the so-called'multiprorogation decree' with great concern, first of all on a general matter, which has dealt with my previous colleague. As already mentioned, the conversion of a thousandprorogues decree into a phase that is not customary, trying to make an operation of mass distraction through fake news and with the adoption of an unusual measure. There is nothing, in fact, that goes in the direction of the real interest of the citizens. In August we will convert a thousand-pronged decree, which, then, almost certainly, in a few months we will have to redo because - as my colleague has already said - on many issues we are not ready. The reference he made to electronic recipes for veterinary medicine is just one example. There is no decree laying down the methods of entry into the databases and there is no way in which the Ministry of Health will have to tell operators how to act on these issues. And, in the absence of a decree, we merely extend by three months. Do we think that in three months it is possible to make a decree and that everyone is ready? I'll give you a prophecy, since I feel like a magician this morning. In a few months we will find ourselves, probably in an ordinary way - as has always happened - to make a new thousandprorogations that you in the past legislatures challenged saying that the extensions had to be eliminated. And here you do it as the first act of your government, unable to make policies for citizens' choices. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Leonardo]] Secondly, we have tabled an amendment, at the first signature of my colleague, Mr Pharaoh, on the early provisions for end-of-life treatment. Another great ambiguity of this Government. Minister Grillo has used important words these days saying that for her that law, which also the party of Movimento 5 Stars voted in the last legislature, must be implemented definitively. We have proposed an extension for a period which has already expired. A decree had to be made for the modalities of the database, but waiting for you to do your contract and form your Government, there was no time to make this decree. We therefore asked for an extension to October, but that amendment was rejected. Perhaps because the League, your ally, disagrees with the end of life? Perhaps this act also wants to be broken up? We need clarity. It is no longer necessary to say everything and the opposite of everything about TAV, vaccines and what concerns the end of life. The last question is the most important. As a member of the Health Commission, I join with the alarm launched yesterday by my colleagues Dario Parrini and Simona Malpezzi in the Commission. I consider it extremely important that the possibility of vaccination for children wishing to register in kindergartens has been extended by one year. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] Today's news of two girls dying of coughs in this country. I think you all need to put a hand on your conscience. I hope you will sleep at night if a child, even one, dies in this country because there is no vaccination obligation. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] In fact, there are those who cannot be vaccinated for health reasons, and this provision limits the immunity of flocks. This is absolutely shameful. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You can scream, but I hope you sleep at night. [[Senator Pianasso's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u34	Comrade, no one's yelling, actually. Please do not raise the tone of the debate. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] You don't raise the tone of the debate. [[Comments of Senator Pharaoh]] Mr President, allow me, but I think that... I know what I'm saying. Please resume your work. Come to the conclusion, Senator Bini. BINI (PD). Mr President, I believe that, if no one is offended, the tone of the voice does not create particular problems with regard to the management of the House's work. [[Comments of Senator Pharaoh]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pharaoh, I'm calling you back to order.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u35	On the issue of vaccines, which I consider very serious, in recent months we have heard Mrs Grillo say that he wanted to do self-certification. It is clear and clear to all that we cannot amend a rule by means of a ministerial circular. It is a work of mass distraction: here too the will is that - and this morning we understood it - to modify and break with a law the so-called decree Lorenzin. Look, you guys aren't giving PD a shit. You are doing damage to the health of the citizens and the weakest. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You will have to decide, sooner or later, whether you want to rule this country, follow science, listen to doctors, protect citizens' interests or think about fake news or chemical trails. Your choice, but this is the time to decide. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u37	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are withdrawn from the sitting of the First Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which finished its work this morning at 2.30 a.m. We have done so with commitment, in a correct manner, and I must say to the President that I did not stifle the debate in any way, which was not a debate, Mr President and ladies and gentlemen, but a monologue. In fact, only the opposition spoke; I believe that it did so in a non-obstructional way, but focused on some sensitive issues, on which there was no rag of response. We have committed ourselves to giving reasons on some essential points. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Group]] , but there was no response either from the majority or from the government. This does not seem to me to be the right way to carry out our work. It is true that the colleagues of the League, with whom we have ruled, had already taken advantage of the system of the thousand-pronge. However, I am very surprised by the ease and nonchalance with which even the 5 Star Movement, which in the last parliamentary term made a horse of battle the impossibility of using instruments that stifle parliamentary debate and weaken the rights of parliamentarians, became immediately addicted to the climate of government and power. Even the Movimento 5 Stars - welcome among us - thus uses this instrument, which is unconstitutional, as the Constitutional Court has repeatedly stated. We have promised ourselves so many times that we will no longer use it because of the unevenness of matter, because many times of the extremes of urgency, because of the extension of time limits which are not in the immediate deadline and so on. It remains in the minutes of the debate that there is little importance for a preliminary ruling on constitutionality, which has not been adopted. I want to focus on two or three points, Mr President, because the problems and problems of the milleproroghe - which is then a 500 extension because it does not actually use the whole term - are many and other colleagues will speak after me in the explanation of the amendments. The Government has issued the measure to secure itself from the expiration of certain terms and certain prescriptions. This isn't a good costume. I believe that the laws must be respected in the manner and within the time limits laid down, without assuming the custom of postponing, many times, the fulfilment of the legislative rules. However, we do not understand why neither the majority nor the government wanted to pay attention, despite the various hearings of organizations and bodies that have reported some problematic deficiencies, and have remained completely deaf to the requests made. I refer, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to the rule establishing the election of the Provinces on 31 October 2018, for all those that expired until that date. And so far, there may be no problem. The problem arises when, with a rule and with retroactive effect, the electoral mandate of a constitutional body, even of a second-degree body, expires in advance. The President of the Province or a provincial council, which expire on 31 December, are seen to anticipate the end of the mandate to 31 October. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This is an unconstitutional law! And we do not see why the opposition's proposal to establish the election day was not accepted. We always fill our mouths on election day and the need to optimize elections and cut spending. We had proposed that all the elections of Presidents and Councils be postponed until 31 January. Also "Il Sole 24 Ore", which was obviously not present in the Commission's work this morning, today headlines "Election day of the Provinces on 31 January 2019". Evidently he had made an act of faith and trust in the majority and the government, which instead was betrayed, because by this rule you anticipated the date, violating a constitutional dictation. I believe there will be oppositions and prosecutions. A dangerous precedent has been created, Mr President. Given what we read in the newspapers, in a forthcoming Parliament, a majority could stand up and say that the next elections will not be in 2023, but in 2020. It is exactly the same system and this does not seem to me to be the right way to legislate. Another issue concerns the ongoing dispute between cooperative credit banks and the State over the law of the central-left government, which had imposed on them the obligation to become a public limited company. There was an appeal to the Council of State, which gave the suspensive and set the substantive hearing on 18 October. We do not understand why the Government and the majority did not accept the proposed amendment that wanted to postpone from eighteen to thirty-six months the deadline for fulfilling the obligations deriving from the law that it imposed on cooperative credit banks to become public limited companies. If the Council of State fails to confirm the suspension and therefore to agree with the legislator, cooperative claims would be limited in time to comply with legal obligations. Again, we do not understand the reason for the refusal to accept this rewording. We are not talking, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, about the schizophrenia with which you have dealt with the fire regulations, by providing for a derogation for the schools that attend our children, the children, where safety needs to be ensured, and you have not accepted the request from the tourist entrepreneurs who asked for an extension. But we know what attention you have given to this sector, since you have also violated the fulfilment of an agenda with which you were all committed to prolonging the entry into force of the Bolkestein Directive. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by borrowing the title of a 1976 film, 'Private virtues, public virtues', I believe that this Government and this majority up to now have shown more their vices than their virtues and we are only at the beginning. Good job. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u38	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u39	Mr President, I give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u40	I call the minority rapporteur. Senator Collina, I'm telling you for the future that the Commission counter is the one on the right. The desk where you are now is reserved for colleagues. It's just that, and I can assure you, even if the practice has been different. Next time, the speakers speak from that side, at least when I'm in charge.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u41	Mr President, I am sure that if this happens again, I will take care to place myself in the right place. I believe that the reply is an obligation, because the general debate has gone on in the Commission's debate: no kind of intercourse and we have said a few things. I would therefore like to develop more clearly the reasoning which began during the debate on the question of the preliminary ruling. The thousandprorogation decree is a measure that has the characteristics that we have described in question. There is a lack of uniformity in our country: when we fix terms, there are those who respect them and those who do not respect them.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u42	I would like colleagues to respect the arguments that the senator is putting forward, paying a minimum of attention. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u43	Mr Collina, minority rapporteur. Thank you, President. This happens with great variety, from North to South, from East to West; all are in these conditions. We have ruled five years and we have done a thousand-pronged measures, but we have always accompanied them to a reasoning of perspective. The extension, that is, must be inserted in a reasoning that gives the prospect of a desirable exhaustion of all the elements of unevenness, in order to grasp those that structurally prevent to do things all together in our country, to set some terms and to respect them. This is the time. How do you attack and attack the elements that structurally prevent us from giving homogeneity to our country? It's about reforms. We have also given meaning and perspective to the multi-pronged decrees by putting reforms in place. The present majority is not doing this and clearly has not done so on that occasion. Graduality is needed, processes are not instantaneous, changes cannot be carried out in a second, a path must be built. The prospect is therefore given by the reforms and, when it comes to us, we have done so. I understand that this is a difficult speech for many of you, because you have put on the field not a vision, but a contract, which you do not need to please: a contract, after you have signed it, is signed. Sometimes listening to some speeches makes me a little tender, because they contain the effort to motivate certain choices from a profound and political point of view. However, when certain decisions are defined by a contract, quite simply it would be enough to say something like this: the contract provides it and we do it, don't ask us if we think it's right or wrong, we have committed ourselves. Let me give you an example of that. Il MoVimento 5 Stars in Emilia-Romagna - the Region from which I come - has one of the oldest roots and I remember perfectly at least two times when in the provincial elections he did not submit lists. Why didn't you? He did not do it for consistency and for a radicality that I also appreciated. The first thing Beppe Grillo said from the stage is that the Provinces are a useless body. And what greater proof that the Provinces are a useless body is that they do not stand in elections for these bodies? In the thousandpronge decree under consideration, the issue of the Provinces is dealt with in a way that is also quite lacking in perspective: changes are made, perhaps they contain objectives that are not said to the full, but all this is compatible with the contract. I went to see if the word "Province" or "Province" is present in the contract and does not appear. Then either you have made an attachment that you keep in the drawer, and then the Provinces are contained in another piece of agreement; or you need to better rewrite the final clause of each contract with words of the type: as far as not covered by this contract you do as the League says. I say this because there are obvious contradictions. I am trying to urge this majority to look at issues of perspective, vision, issues that are certainly on the table; but there is nothing about this, on the contrary, there are aspects that must surely still be addressed and distorted. In addition, other aspects are also in the same conditions as the Provinces in the thousandprorogation decree under discussion. I would like to point out just two of them, the first of which is particularly close to my heart, which is the issue of graduality that we addressed two years ago: I am referring to the extension of fire regulations in schools. Two years ago we arranged for the extension, but we put in place a national plan to support local authorities to finance school compliance for three years. The extensions, therefore, are made, but on the other hand there is a path that gradually recovers in the substance what needs to be done, giving everyone the opportunity to take advantage of it. That of infrastructure is a subject that clearly divides the yellow majority today and you took some time to discuss. However, look at the fact that, again in this case, returning to the initial discourse on the aspects that structurally prevent our country from growing like the others, we must remember the theme of the infrastructural gap. If we grow a little less than others, it's because we have elements that structurally prevent it. We are not worse than others in other respects, but there is the infrastructural gap that needs to be filled. We had foreseen EUR 47 billion for public and infrastructure works: today you take time to make assessments. We know it: it is in all the newspapers your discussion on the assessments you have to make on the necessity and the characteristics of the infrastructures, but the infrastructures are important, in order to give competitiveness to our Country. I would therefore like to repeat this at the end of my speech, because we can make a thousand extensions, which are not a problem. The thousand extensions, however, must be accompanied by a reasoning and an exhibition of a vision, to make it a transitional measure, with a view to achieving important objectives for the country. Today you propose extensions, but don't tell us what are the important goals for the country and how you intend to achieve them. Faced with this is the country that risks. We will therefore be here to ensure that the country does not risk losing competitiveness and social security, because the issue of vaccines - for example - is absolutely important. We are also here to give meaning to the issue of reforms, which we care about: we are a reformist party and on this you will always find us available for comparison. But if you do not put in place a perspective, a vision, all this remains very dry and we will find ourselves here still doing many thousandprorogues, without head and tail. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u44	As the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply, I suspend the work until 2.30 p.m., in order to allow the submission of sub-amendments by 1 p.m. During the suspension, the Committees and, in particular, the Committee on Budgets will be able to meet, and that is why the sitting will be suspended until 2.30 p.m. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 11.18 p.m. and resumed at 2.35 p.m.) Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidency, in accordance with the relevant provisions of Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, declares that the amendments already tabled in the Commission: 1.16, 1.17, 1.18, 1.20, 1.21, 1.22, 1.27, 1.30, 1.45, 1.46, 1.47, 1.48, 1.49, 1.54, 1.55, 1.56, 1.57, 1.59, 1.60, 1.61, 1.91, 1.91, 1.97, 1.98, 1.99, 1.100, 1.0.1, 1.0.3, 1.0.4, 1.0.5, 1.0.6, 1.0.8, 1.0.9, 1.0.9, 1.0.10, 2.26, 9.33, 9.43, 9.48, 9.52, 4.0.1, 5.8, 5.0.3, 5.04, 5.0, 5.0, 5.0, 6.16, 7.8, 7.9, 8.2, 8.11, 8.11, 9.11, 9.24, 9.25, 9.33, 9.48, 9.52, 9.52, 9.52, 9.53, 9.53, 9.92, 9.98, 9.102, 9.103, 9.0.1, 9.0, 9.04, 11.11, 11.11, 9.33, 9.43, 9.52, 9.92, 9.98, 9.102, 9.01, 9.01, 9.01, 9.01, 9.04, 9.04, 9.54, 11.11, 9.33, 9.43, 9.48, 9.52, 9.52, 9.52, 9.52, 9.52, 9.92, 9.98, 9.98, 9.98, 9.98, 9.98, 9.991, 9.99, 9.99, 9.99, 9.99, 9.99, 9.99, 1. For the same reasons, the Presidency also states that the new amendment 5.0,300 is not possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u47	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. As a Democratic Party, we are extremely concerned about the increasingly precise and increasingly numerous news about web attacks, the result of manoeuvres that at the moment are extremely obscure and turbid, which were addressed to the Head of State in the night between 27 and 28 May. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Our concern is strong. What we know so far is enough to get us to ask you to represent the President-in-Office of the Council with our conviction that his presence in this House is extremely urgent to report to the Senate on what our Executive is aware of, what they intend to do and what they have decided to do in order to clarify this extremely serious matter. As everyone has been able to read in the numerous articles published in the last two days, the news about these attacks has been derived from an FBI investigation. We are talking about dozens and dozens of false profiles, of foreign manufacture, of Russian origin, close to the security apparatus of the Russian government, sites that have spread delegitimantic attacks, infamous and severely intimidating against the Head of State at a crucial moment in national political life. We all know, for the many debates that have been held on the potential democratic distortion of the coordinated and organized dissemination of fake news, how these practices, extremely disturbing and turbid, can tamper and pollute the democratic life of a country. We must be fully aware of the danger these initiatives represent and we must make absolute clarity. In other places my party has asked for this to be dealt with by the Copasir; it is a request that we obviously subscribe to. Mrs Quartapelle asked that the Government immediately summon the Russian ambassador and this is also a request that we subscribe to, because the Head of State, who is the highest office of the Republic, cannot defend itself and it is necessary that the Government immediately give a signal of great attention to the gravity of what is emerging. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Fantetti]] Therefore, since this affair has implications, both of national and international security, I believe that it is necessary that the President of the Count Council comes directly to report to this House. I am sure that our request will be considered very carefully by the Presidency, which I thank in advance. I would add that we are not sovereignists, but we see that this affair raises heavy issues that have to do with the safeguarding and integrity of Italy's national sovereignty: those who define themselves with great sovereign complacency should be concerned, not as much as we do, but even more than we. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u48	The Presidency takes note of this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u49	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u50	Mr President, with regard to the amendments I signed in relation to Article 1, I would point out that the Forza Italia Group considered it appropriate to contribute to a better drafting of the text of this decree-law on the extension of time limits and did so by indicating certain deadlines which needed to be extended and which we felt should be put to Parliament's attention. In order for this to happen in the best possible way, starting naturally from the basic text, we have considered to make a series of proposals relating to the competence of the articles related to the decree-law itself. We felt that we should do so in particular with a number of amendments - I am only referring to those referred to in Article 1 - relating to local authorities, municipalities, provinces and everything that had to do with the progress of the regular course of school years, also taking into account what was necessary and appropriate to meet certain needs regarding the good performance and good administration of some important municipalities. That is why we have proposed a number of amendments which we consider to be fundamental, starting with the amendments 1.29 and 1.37 relating, for example, to the small municipalities, which we have tabled to meet the demands of the smaller municipalities, which are the ones most suffering from the current absolute absence of public funding and which are experiencing a situation of very serious decoction. These amendments were not considered useful by the majority, who rejected them, but we think that being supportive and paying attention to the small municipalities is absolutely necessary. Just as we considered it essential - and we have accepted this - to obtain an extension on urgent measures for the course of the school years 2018-2019 and 2019-2020, as urged, to the truth, by the National Association of Italian Municipalities and this was essentially accepted, subsequently, by the 1st Commission, which redrafted its own amendment that led to the possibility of meeting this request, which was addressed to us by the ANCI. We then wanted to address an absolutely urgent issue, which was urged by a particular case, relating to the Municipality of Catania, where in the aftermath of the last local elections held last spring, we came to create a situation such that we thought it absolutely necessary to give the current administration the opportunity and the opportunity for an extension, in order to allow the necessary time to start a rebalancing plan remodulated and reworded according to paragraph 888 of the article in existence. That is why we have repeatedly insisted on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to accept this amendment. Since there has been a short circuit that I have missed, I do not know whether the President of the Borghesi Commission can come to me and tell me whether amendment 1,104 (text 2) is exactly the rewording of our amendment 1,106 signed by Senator Bernini and Senator Schifani, who comes to this instance, because we consider its approval absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u51	Madam President, I apologize because I am responsible for having arrived an instant after the beginning of the sitting and I would therefore like to know if you are asking me to explain all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u52	It must explain, if it considers it, the amendments it has tabled to Article 1, namely Amendments 1.9 and 1.91.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u53	MALLEGNI (FI-BP). Well, I will begin with the presentation of amendment 1.9 on the question of the Provinces, which has been for the attention of the Commission and the House. We had proposed a measure that we thought was extremely reasonable, which was to postpone all the elections to 31 January 2019. Well, I would like to make a very clear point which does not of course concern Forza Italia, but I must say it with the same simplicity as we spoke in the Commission last night and tonight: here there are two elements in the field, on the one hand, the Democratic Party defending the possibility of postponing the elections of the Provinces and, on the other hand, the majority or a piece of it that defends the possibility of anticipating them all to 31 October, because the positions are both legitimate? Because bank foundations are running out. Well, we don't play this game and as a result, if you want to play it and you want to sing it, for us you can also dance it, because we absolutely do not agree on this and these games on banks - which I think have already been a feature of the previous legislature, which did not go particularly well - we do not think we should participate. Forza Italia is another thing and it seems to me that every day it emerges more and more. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u54	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment No 1.84 on the organisation of the Ministry of the Interior. It tends to give more time for the preparation of the organizational regulations referred to in article 2, paragraph 7, of Decree-Law 31 August 2013, as well as to block - let's say - the reductions provided for in the Ministry's staff. The reason is very simple: it seems clear to us that, compared to that time, certain emergencies relating to security and immigration involve the need to have a greater and stronger staff. With regard to this amendment, I was told, by the Ministry, by the short way, of the desire not to take advantage of extensions, but to arrive at a reorganization that would save the integrity of prefectures and would affect only those special tasks that in the meantime have matured. If this were the case and if this were confirmed by the Government, it would already be a remarkable result, because the authority and strength of the State would not be diminished at a time that seems particularly delicate to me, as evidenced also by the acts that have been prepared by this Government. Therefore, Mr President, I would urge the representative of the Government to say something about this, since he is also prepared to withdraw the amendment in the case. Otherwise, I shall be content with the fact that there has nevertheless been a stimulus for the problem of reorganization to be taken into account without the state's apparatus, in particular that of prefectures, suffering from it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u55	Mr President, I will only explain the reasons for amendment 1.4, because the other amendments tabled on behalf of the Fratelli d'Italia Group are very well known by all the parties and parliamentary groups, since, as I said this morning during the general debate, we have accepted the proposals from the Union of the Provinces of Italy. Amendment 1.4 proposes that the following words be inserted in Article 1 (2): Waiting for the reform of the system of election of the presidents of Province and provincial councils, aimed at reintroducing universal and direct suffrage. Given that draft laws have been submitted to this effect, we believe that the delay of the deadline to 31 January 2019 can also be useful in approving the reform and giving the citizens the floor again.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u56	Mr President, I refer to what Senator Pagano said, because there is an amendment that I signed, 1.05, which is the same as Amendment 1,106. Yesterday, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the President of the Commission proposed a rewording of the amendment and, as we were told, we agreed. However, reading the text now does not seem to me to achieve the aims that my amendment seeks to achieve. In very few words, Amendment 1,105 seeks to reopen the time limits for the administrations that have settled this year and to set the deadline of 30 September to retable a rebalancing plan, suspending any decisions of the Court of Auditors. I repeat, reading the text as reworded by the Commission, does not seem to me to achieve this. I would therefore like to clarify the rewording, because it is of no use if the aim is not achieved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u57	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u58	Mr President, as soon as possible, if you agree, I would express my views in favour of the amendments to Article 1, and then I would consider all the others to be a call for withdrawal, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u59	All right, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u60	Mr BORGHESI, rapporteur. Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 1.10 (text 2), 1.23 (text 2), 1.88 (text 2) and 1.0.7. I withdraw amendment 1.70 (text 2). On all other amendments, I am against or I call for a withdrawal.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u61	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u64	Mr ASTORRE (PD). Mr President, Amendment 1.70 (text 2) is by the rapporteur. So the rapporteur tabled the amendment and then withdrew it? There is no objection to this amendment from the Budget Committee. He then tabled the amendment and then withdrew it. [[Comments of Senator Calderoli]] Senator Calderoli, do not suggest, because I think the rapporteur can answer alone.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u67	Mr BORGHESI, rapporteur. Mr President, I confirm the withdrawal of the amendment by my signature 1.70 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u68	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator De Poli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.4 tabled by Senators Iannone and Bertacco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.5, which is identical to Amendments Nos 1.6, 1.7 and 1.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u71	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I rise to speak in favour of my Group's amendment 1.5. The Minister of the Interior has recently declared his will to instruct as soon as possible a path to change the structures of the Provinces and reform the local authorities. I believe that this path would need time, instead the text of the thousand-pronge anticipates the electoral deadlines, forcing several presidents and councils to interrupt the legislature even a few months before their term of office is ended, anticipating the electoral deadline. We find this choice incomprehensible. We agree with the Union of Italian Provinces that this choice should be rejected and we will vote in favour of these amendments for this reason. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u74	BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, paragraph 2 of Article 1 is apparently virtuous, because it establishes an election day for the election of provincial councils; in fact, it is a very serious precedent. In fact, 43 out of 76 provinces expire in January, so we, with this amendment, shorten the lifespan of a Council, of an institution guaranteed by the Constitution, of three months, for no obvious reason. It is an extremely dangerous precedent, the ratio of which is certainly not attributable to any kind of institutional or constitutional reasoning. Before, Senator Mallegni recalled perhaps the real reason for this anticipation: to want to proceed with a renewed governance to the renewals of extremely important banking foundations. So treating the Constitution, for absolutely incomprehensible and unacceptable purposes, is really very dangerous and constitutes a precedent that I would never have liked to see appeared in the Assembly of this important institution, such as the Senate. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u76	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u77	Mr ASTORRE (PD). Mr President, I shall abstain on this amendment. I would point out that I am in favour of the direct election of the Provinces and I hope that, together with the friends of the League, we will be able to do a battle over this during the legislature, to restore it; I say this because I signed it, so I am absolutely in favour. However, I believe, and I want it to remain in the record, that this is a violation of the Constitution. Mr President, you are also the guardian of the Constitution here, and I think that President Mattarella will also be able to assess it: I believe that we can extend the terms of the course of a legislature (and in the past it happened, for example in the 1980s), but shorten them by law, when the legislature is in progress, for me it is unconstitutional. Stay on the record. It would have been much smarter, as requested by the ANCI and the UPI, to set the election day at 31 January. Since, however, I am for direct election, I shall abstain on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u78	I call on Senator Pagano and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1.5, identical to amendments 1.6, tabled by Senator Parrini and other senators, 1.7, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators and 1.8, tabled by Senators Iannone and Bertacco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.9, tabled by Senator Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.10 (text 2) which is identical to Amendment 1,300.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u81	PICHETTO FRATIN (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to make a comment on this amendment. We are in favour of this because it allows the mayors due in November 2018 to present themselves, within the twelve months, as candidates for the presidencies of the Provinces. Unfortunately we have forgotten that 4,000 of the 8,000 Italian municipalities vote in the spring round of 2019 and in some Provinces more than 80% of the mayors are not candidates. I don't know if this is a constitutional rule. Perhaps Parliament should read these facts and put them in a position to function. I do not make the historical nemesis of the Delrio law, but at this point consider the reality [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u82	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.10 (text 2), tabled by the Commission, identical to Amendment 1,300, tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u85	LUPE (M5S). Mr President, I fear that Senator Turco's voting position has not worked in the vote just now. RONZULLI (FI-BP). Not even mine.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u86	I call on Parliament's assistants to check the proper functioning of the voting positions. (Parliamentary assistants shall carry out the appropriate checks.) I would remind you that amendments 1.20, 1.21 and 1.27 are unacceptable. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,28, tabled by Senator Grassi, identical to amendments 1,29, tabled by Senator Malan, and 1.0.2, tabled by Senator Taricco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,37, tabled by Senator Pagano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.35, identical to amendments 1.36 and 1.38, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.35, tabled by Senator Pagano and other Senators, identical to amendments 1.36, tabled by Senator Parrini and other Senators, and 1.38, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 1.15, which is essentially identical to amendments 1.12, 1.13 and 1.14.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u89	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 1.15.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u90	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.12, tabled by Senator Pagano and other senators, identical to amendments 1.13, tabled by Senator Bertacco, and 1.14, tabled by Senator Parrini and other senators. [[The vote will be taken at the next voting time. Comments from the M5S Group]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Evangelista, have you asked for the floor? EVANGELIST (M5S). No, Mr President, President. Excuse me, colleagues, but if you stand up, it may seem like you want to speak. Since there are so many amendments, it would be better to proceed with greater order.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u93	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, perhaps you forgot to close the previous vote before opening the next one, so we were in trouble, in confusion. We made two votes keeping the vote open.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u94	We didn't make two votes, but only one. There was the withdrawal of an amendment and therefore we would have voted for three identical amendments, since one had been withdrawn. It does not seem to me that we have proceeded incorrectly. Amendments 1.16, 1.17 and 1.18 are unacceptable. Let us move on to amendment 1,19, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u97	PIROVANO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Amendment 1.19 is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u98	The Presidency takes note of this. Amendment 1.22 is not possible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.23 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u101	Mr BORGHESI, rapporteur. Mr President, I am making a formal mistake in the text of the amendment. The text shall be understood as follows: In the year 2018, if it has been submitted or approved at the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of this decree... For a formal error, the text contains the following wording: "on the date of entry into force of this decree." PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u104	PAGE (FI-BP). Mr President, I am speaking only to announce the support of the Forza Italia Group for this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u105	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.23 (correct text 2) tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 1.24, which is identical to Amendments 1.25 and 1.26, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u108	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, we do not insist on the vote on amendment 1.24, at the first signature of Senator Parrini of the Democratic Party, since we are opposed to the 5th Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u109	Amendment 1.24 is impervious. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.25, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendment 1.26, tabled by Senator Pagano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.30 to 1.52 cannot be proposed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.31, tabled by Senator Parrini and other senators, identical to amendment 1.62, tabled by Senator Pagano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.32, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.32, tabled by Senator Marsilio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.11 to 1.41 cannot be proposed. Let us move on to Amendment No 1.39, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.39 tabled by Senators Iannone and Bertacco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u112	PIROVANO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I will withdraw Amendment No 1.44.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u113	The Presidency takes note of this. Amendments 1.45 to 1.49 cannot be proposed. Amendment 1.53 is withdrawn. Amendments 1.54 to 1.61 cannot be proposed. We move on to amendment 1.63, identical to amendments 1.64 and 1.65, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,63, tabled by Senator Pagano and other senators, identical to amendments 1,64, tabled by Senator Parrini and other senators, and 1,65, tabled by Senator Bertacco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.67 and 1.66 are withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u116	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, to clarify and perhaps to help the orderly conduct of the work: the Democratic Party insists on voting on the only amendments that concern the issue of the earthquake. In all other cases, where there is an opinion contrary to Rule 81, we do not insist on the vote. We therefore do not insist on the vote on Amendment No 1.69. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendment 1.69 is impervious.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u119	PAGE (FI-BP). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment No 1.71.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u120	We move on to amendment 1.72, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. BERTACCO (FdI). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.72, tabled by Senator Bertacco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.70 (text 2) have fallen. Amendment 1.73 has been withdrawn. Let us turn to Amendment No 1.68, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. CATALFO (M5S). I'm gonna drop it, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us move on to Amendment No 1.75, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Montevecchi (M5S). I'm gonna drop it, ma'am. [[Comments from the PD Group]] We move on to amendment 1,680, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'm gonna drop it, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendment 1,680 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment No 1.81, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.81 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 1.74, which is identical to Amendments 1.76, 1.77 and 1.690, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. PAGE (FI-BP). I withdraw amendment 1.74, President. Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, I withdraw Amendments Nos 1.76 and 1.77. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,690, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Marsilio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.83, tabled by Senator Parrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.84 tabled by Senator Quagliariello. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 1.85, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.85 tabled by Senator Pagano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.2 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to Amendment No 1.86... No, we shall proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.88 (text 2). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.88 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Comments from the PD Group]] Colleagues, if there had been any problem of interpretation on this last point, I would like to make it clear that it was the vote on Amendment 1.88 (text 2). Maybe I forgot to clear it up. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u123	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to have the ballots removed from the posts where the senators are not present.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u124	I call on the Secretary Senators to ensure that the votes take place in a regular manner.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u127	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I wanted to understand whether, as you announced, we voted on Amendment No 1,86, which, moreover, seemed to me to be very similar to Amendment No 1.88, even after its rewording. You, in fact, voted on Amendment No 1.86 together with Amendment No 1.88. At least that's how we figured it out.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u128	Senator Ciriani, I may have misjudged myself, because I first said 1.86 but then I corrected and voted on Amendment 1.88 (text 2) by the Commission, with a favourable opinion from the rapporteur and the Government. We voted for that. CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, is Amendment No 1.86 absorbed? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We have not yet proceeded to your vote. We'll do it soon. Amendment 1.87 is withdrawn. We move on to Amendment 1.86, which is identical to Amendments 1.88 and 1.89, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u131	PAGE (FI-BP). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment No 1.89. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u134	GRASSI (M5S). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 1.88.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u135	The Presidency takes note of this. Senator Iannone, do you insist on voting on Amendment 1.86? IANNONE (FdI). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,86, tabled by Senators Iannone and Bertacco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.90 is impervious. Amendment 1.91 is unacceptable. Let us move on to Amendment No 1.92, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 1.92 tabled by Senator Bertacco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 1,93, which is identical to Amendment No 1,94, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1,93 tabled by Senator Pagano and other senators, identical to Amendment No 1,94, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.95 is impervious. Let us turn to Amendment No 1.96, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.96 tabled by Senator Bertacco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.97, 1.98, 1.99 and 1.100 are unacceptable. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,101, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, identical to Amendments 1,102, tabled by Senator Parrini and other Senators, and 1,103, tabled by Senator Pagano and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment No 1,104, identical to Amendments Nos 1,105 and 1,106, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution,
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u138	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment No 1,104.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u139	Senator Stancanelli, do you insist on voting on Amendment 1,105? STANCANELLI (FdI). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u142	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I would ask you to add my signature to Amendment No 1,106 and I would ask for the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u143	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,105, tabled by Senator Stancanelli, which is essentially identical to Amendment 1,106, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B) Let us turn to amendment 1,107, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.107 tabled by Senator Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,108, which is identical to Amendments Nos 1,109, 1,111 and 1,112.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u144	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u146	PIROVANO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to point out that Amendment No 1,108 is not the same as the following: in my first amendment, in fact, it refers to the end of 31 December 2019, while in the subsequent amendments the date indicated is that of 30 June 2019. In any case, I would ask for amendment 1,108 to be changed to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u147	You're right, Senator, the date given is different. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the request for the amendment to be changed to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u148	Mr President, the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u149	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u150	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.108 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,109, tabled by Senator Pagano and other senators, identical to amendments 1,111, tabled by Senator Iannone, and 1,112, tabled by Senator Parrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.110, tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,113 is being put aside for the time being: it will be put to the vote after amendment 1.0.7. Amendment 1.0.1 and amendments 1.0.3 to 1.0.6 are unacceptable. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1.0.7 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,113 remains therefore incorporated. Amendments 1.0.8, 1.0.9 and 1.0.10 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u151	Mr President, Amendments 2.5 and 2.6 deal with the temporary restoration of the island sections of Lipari and Portoferraio as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u152	Mr President, I would like to point out that the situation of insularity in the field of justice must be treated equally. The deadline for the detached section of Ischia had been extended and Amendment 2.7 proposed such an extension also for the detached section of Lipari and for the detached section of Portoferraio. We have appreciated the fact that the Commission has taken up the amendments and corrected this which would have been a disparity between the identical situations of justice in the islands. I therefore put forward the Group's vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u153	Mr President, Amendment 2.4 deals with the temporary restoration of the detached section of Portoferraio. We consider this important because it is not possible for a group of lawyers or a person who needs to go to court to make an hour by ferry and two hours by car. It really seems to us to be an important amendment and we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u154	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendments 2.8 and 2.25. The question does not seem trivial to me as I think it is represented in this House, because we did not write the rule of the thousandprorogations decree where it is written that the tribunal of Portoferraio would be closed, otherwise we could all seem crazy. If Senator Berardi had not tabled the question, if we had not put directly the question of the detachment of Portoferraio, this type of amendment would not have been included within the milleproroghe. I therefore call on the majority, before writing the rules, since this comes from there anyway, to be very careful. To close the court in Portoferraio would have been a trouble, as being on an island and not having the chance to have a detached section would have been really a big trouble. We strongly claim this change and believe that we have served the Elbe community. Amendment 2.25 deals with the other issue which, frankly, surprised me and not least. The amending proposal concerns the increase in the retirement age of magistrates. I was convinced of one thing, which I have already said in the Commission, and I would like my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars to listen to me, since I have taken up equal an amendment tabled in 2016 by Senator Crimi to the bill of conversion of the so-called "multipronge" decree, which provided for the raising of the retirement age from seventy to seventy-two years for the magistrates who had not yet completed the seventieth year of age. This means, in fact, interrupting judicial activity in important centres and preventing the activities of magistrates from continuing, in the interests of justice. The fact that this is said by Massimo Mallegni (who also had periods of infamous, as well as known) and by Forza Italia should not surprise because this - I have already said it before - is a point of view of another story that, always and anyway, is us. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u155	Mr President, Amendment 2,300 concerns the issue of anti-mafia documentation in the agricultural sector. I would remind you that the certification requirement has been introduced for concessions on agricultural and zootechnical land. The law came into force last November and the paying agencies would have been clearly in crisis, because more than a million certifications would have to be managed, creating problems in terms of payments of European funding. The 2018 Budget Act, in order to avoid blocking the acquisition of documentation, delayed an extension. The situation, however, has not yet been defined and, above all, has sent into crisis the offices of the prefectures. Therefore, only for agricultural land with European funds for disbursements of less than EUR 25,000, it is proposed to introduce a further extension. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u156	Mr President, I would like to explain the amendments 2.21, 2.22 and 2.23, which concern the honorary and peace judiciary. We have decided to table these amendments because all the associations that bring together the honorary magistrates have considered the so-called Orlando reform penalising for the role, activity and dignity of the magistrates themselves. Despite the fact that the amendments do not involve expenditure and have been declared admissible, both the Government and the rapporteur have expressed the opposite opinion in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I would like to invite you to reconsider, also because point 12 of the Agreement for the Government of Change reads: It is necessary to recognise the role of honorary magistrates, through a complete modification of the recent "Orlando reform," also addressing issues related to their treatment and social security and welfare cover. If these amendments of ours were not adopted, with this reform (considered by both the parties concerned and by the friends who signed the government contract penalising the honorary judiciary), we would later find ourselves in great difficulty. I would like to point out that the Italian tradition of the conciliatory judge, which then became that of the honorary judges, has rendered so much justice in the most remote places of our country, all the more so today that the ordinary magistrates themselves say that without the activity, the sacrifice and the capacity of the honorary magistrates could no longer be rendered justice in Italy. For this reason, I call on both the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to review their position. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u157	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u158	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 2.3, 2.100, 2.12 and 2.15. With regard to the other amendments referred to in Article 2, I would ask those who withdraw otherwise the opinion would be against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u159	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u160	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u162	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, please, the economy of the work, I accept the rapporteur's invitation and withdraw the amendments relating to Article 2 which bear the signature of a Senator of the League. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u163	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u165	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, I would first like to remind you and the House that I will also give an explanation of vote in favour of our amendments concerning the detached sections of Portoferraio and Lipari, on which we too have tabled amending proposals and which were regrettably forgotten in the thousand-pronged measure which dealt with the issue of Ischia. I am now immediately in the content of amendment 2.1, which concerns the extension of the deadline for the entry into force of the reform regulation on interceptions. The report to paragraph 1 of Article 2 states: "Prorogation of the period of application of provisions on interceptions" and refers to certain structural questions of resources and assets. Conversely, in recent months, since the Government took office, the Minister of Justice Bonafede has repeatedly stated that he wants to completely change the discipline of interceptions. This measure, the result of a very thorough work involving not only the practitioners of justice, but the world of journalism, lawyering, the judiciary and university, takes into account the important and delicate balance between the right to confidentiality, seeking the necessary evidence to ensure those responsible for crime and freedom of information. None of this seems to be the subject of the postponement that we should theoretically vote on. We would have expected, if this was the object, that the measure would actually take care of it. I would add that this reform of wiretapping also provides for an important strengthening of the investigation tool on corruption offences. I therefore ask: is this delay going to delay much longer a more effective and stringent instrument to strike at the phenomenon of corruption, on which it seems to me that there is a great deal to be done? Or, on the other hand, do you want to upset an important reform that deals with the issue of the publication of conversations and communications that are not relevant to the prosecution of the crime? I ask you, therefore, if you are on the line of the main Italian prosecutors, following the circulars on the basis of which the provision was forged and written. Is it a problem of how to do it or whether to do it? What are the instruments, beyond the jokes and allusions, that we have heard in these last days? Do we want to avoid the investigation becoming a blind and lazy collector of information of any kind and nature, which does not serve the repression of crimes and instead strengthen the instrument of investigation? The referral is in no way justified or argued, because otherwise it would have been precisely restricted to structural problems. He would have done something about it. Among other things, there has been a very complex process; all these arguments should be known by the Government and, in particular, by the Minister of Justice who has been a member of the Justice Commission and has participated in the drafting of the measure, following all the stages that have marked it. In conclusion, we wonder what the approach is, but above all what the idea is about the two important words that echo these days: security and freedom. When we talk about freedom of information, citizens' security and the right to free information, what does that mean? Is the combined arrangement on how a chairman of the Board of Directors of RAI is required in violation of all the guarantees provided by the law? Is this the indiscriminate publication of any conversation? Is the combined security provision to leave citizens alone in the face of attacks of violence and discrimination, such as the one announced on the abolition of the so-called Mancino law? For us security and freedom are inseparably bound and have a precise meaning that, we think, does not coincide with yours. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u166	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u168	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I would like to explain our abstention vote on Amendment 2.1. All those in the Commission who participated in the hearings of the prosecutors of the major offices of Italy have been able to learn that the offices are currently unable to implement the entry into force of the new rules on interceptions. The only motivation for us is this; we cannot bring into force a new discipline that cannot be implemented. We therefore invite the Government and the offices of the Ministry of Justice to make possible the implementation of the new discipline. We prescind from the assessments of other political positions which would like to change this discipline. My group will therefore abstain from voting on Amendment 2.1 for the reasons I have outlined.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u169	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u171	VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to withdraw Amendment 2.4 because it is absorbed by the Commission's amendment 2.3, with the aim of keeping the Portoferraio Court open. I thank the Government for the point on a really important need for the island.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u172	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.3, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u173	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u175	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, please note that my vote was in favour of the last amendment voted on.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u176	I take note of that. Amendment 2.4 has been withdrawn. Amendments 2.5 to 2.9 and 2.10 are absorbed by the adoption of amendment 2.3. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.100, tabled by the Commission, which fulfils a condition laid down by the Budget Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.11 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.12 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.13, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u177	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u179	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, my voting system is not working. It is green and my vote is against.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u180	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u182	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask you to repeat the vote: since we have had a number of amendments, we have not been able to grasp the number of the amendment we have voted on. As we tried to understand it, the vote closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u183	I shall cancel the vote. I would like to refer again to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.13, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.14 tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 2.15 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.19 is therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.20, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.21, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of amendment 2.21, tabled by Senators Stancanelli and Balboni, until the words "Effectiveness" are suspended. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 2.22 and 2.23 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.24, tabled by Senator Stancanelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.25, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.25, tabled by Senator Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.26 is not possible. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,300, tabled by Senator Berutti and other senators, which is essentially identical to amendment 4.7, tabled by Senator Durnwalder and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u184	Mr President, Amendment 3.1 concerns the extension of the deadline for the denunciation of the possession of animal species considered invasive under a European Union regulation establishing which invasive species are at plant and animal level throughout the Union. It must be said that it does not seem to make much sense to list invasive species on such a wide territory, since it is scientifically proven that some species are invasive in a certain ecosystem and not in another and therefore to have something that is materially invasive in Italy does not mean that it is invasive in Germany or Denmark as well. The fundamental error that would like to correct this amendment concerns the timing of the denunciation of the detention of these animals. Let's remember that the text that established the obligation to denounce is of 15 December 2017 and that the legislative decree n. 230 gave one hundred and eighty days for the denunciation; of this term, however, no advertising or awareness campaign has ever been made regarding the obligation to denounce and the danger of these animal species. Now, since the deadline would be August 15th, suddenly there will be an extension of twelve and a half months. Since the complaint involves the completion of a form with the help of the veterinarian and the sending of this form by certified e-mail (PEC) to the Ministry, it is not possible to understand why this obligation of denunciation should be postponed for so long. The reasonable proposal was to extend the deadline to 31 December 2018. Given that it is the Government that issues legislative decrees, I would like to point out to the Undersecretary - which unfortunately is not there at the moment - that reference is made to a provision contained in Article 27 of Legislative Decree No. 230 of 2017 and very guiltyly this article does not imply the obligation of denunciation for the possession of invasive plant species. Let's remember that the amount of billions of dollars lost worldwide for the spontaneous diffusion, unwanted, or the exchange of vegetative material of propagation (whether rhizomes, seeds or cuttings) is enormous, so the Government should provide in this sense to foresee the obligation of denunciation also for these species, also because there is an incongruity: on the one hand there is the obligation of control and destruction of these invasive species and, on the other, there is no obligation of denunciation on the part of the possessor. Therefore, one may possess a toxic plant specimen in his own garden, which involves the free dispersion of seeds, for which it is required to destroy, but at the same time there is no obligation to denounce possession. As far as animal species are concerned there is no aerodispersion of propagating material, but there is still the possibility of proliferation - daughtering - or the possibility of joining males and females of different possessors for the production of offspring. So a time is given, a window of a year, in which these species could proliferate uncontrolledly, with the risk of spontaneous dispersion or even voluntary introduction (because there are those who, not wishing to denounce, could choose to abandon), who appears to be a really excessive time. So, in our opinion, it is reasonable that the deadline is December 31, 2018.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u185	Mr President, the amendment proposed by us is intended to extend to 31 December 2019 the transitional period during which the computer tracking obligations, provided for by the waste traceability control system (Sistri), coexist with forms, unloading registers and the single environmental declaration model (MUD), the so-called double track, and to suspend the application of sanctions for the non-registration and payment of contributions to the waste traceability system, until it is taken over in the management of the service by the new concessionaire and in any case not later than 31 December 2019. The extension of the double track is necessary, since the Sistri, introduced in 2009 and never entered into operation, still presents significant problems of applicability, in particular to small enterprises. Currently, after completing the call for tenders for a new operator in August 2016, the award procedure has not yet been completed and formalised and the new operator has not yet been contracted, even in the light of pending appeals. In the meantime, the equipment on which the old system was based is now obsolete, inefficient, inexpensive and the enterprises, having not carried out updates and specific training, are not in a position to use the system. Moreover, it is necessary to avoid that in the transitional period, in which the system is not ensured a correct and complete operation, the enterprises suffer heavy penalties for the non-registration and the related payment of the contributions provided for in Article 260-a, paragraphs 1 and 2 of Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006. It is therefore proposed to amend the article in question by replacing the provision providing for the mere half-life of the aforementioned sanctions with their postponement, at least until the date on which the new concessionaire will not take over the management. Representatives of the Government, I think this is an important amendment, if we really want to lighten the difficulties of our small businesses, which govern the Italian system: this is a rule that would help them. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u186	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u187	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 3.15 and 3.16 (text 3). On all other amendments I call for a withdrawal or the opinion is against.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u188	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u189	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator Sudan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u190	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u191	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u192	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 3.2 and I would also like to give an indication of the withdrawal of Amendment 3.0.1, on behalf of my colleague, Mr Ripamonti.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u193	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.3, tabled by Senators Steger and Durnwalder, identical to Amendments 3.4, tabled by Senator Laniece, and 3.5, tabled by Senator Pagano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.6, tabled by Senator Pagano and other senators, until the following words: "Until 31 December 2019"; (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 3.7 and 3.8 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.9, tabled by Senator Pagano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.10 tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators, identical to Amendment 3.11, tabled by Senator Pagano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.12 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.13 tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators, identical to Amendment 3.14 tabled by Senator Pagano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 3.15 tabled by the Commission, which is essentially the same as Amendment 3.1104, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.16 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.17 to 3.20 are unacceptable. Amendment 3.0.1 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.0.11 tabled by Senators Mirabelli and Collina. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u194	Mr President, I am announcing the withdrawal of amendment 4.22 and I want it to be put to the record. I would like a minute to explain amendment 4.8 which concerns the issue of dry coupons, which are also dealt with by other amendments. The Group of Forza Italia has intended to urge the Government on a topic that we think - but we are sure of this all - concerns the entire Italian people, that is, the tax relief for rents that benefits both the tenants, that is the owners of real estate, and the tenants. We believe that this benefit should be extended in time because it benefits and certainly also relaunches the real estate market.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u195	Senator, amendment 4.22 has already been declared inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u196	Mr President, as the second signatory to Amendments 4.11, 4.12, 4.13 and 4.14, I should like to briefly explain them. Someone, Mr President, might think that there is an interest in the issues because I will be speaking again on the Bolkestein directive. We in this House have all adopted a resolution together, which has been entrusted to the President of the Count Council, on the resolution of the Bolkestein issue involving 30,000 companies, one million people working in the pipeline and more than 150,000 streetwalkers operating in areas of public soil. With these amendments we have tried to meet that resolution, adopted by all with the Government's favourable opinion, moving the issue no longer to 2020 but giving wide availability and discretion: ten years of extension, or thirty, or forty, or sixty. In short, we identify a reasonable period to allow the government to be able to work, operate and to all of us to make our proposal and remove the bathing companies and streetwalks on public soil from the problems of Bolkestein. Well, what happened? In the Commission, these amendments, which do not have any financial or economic feedback for the State, but do for businesses and families, have been rejected. And as long as the Democratic Party rejected them, as I said in the Commission yesterday, we were not surprised at all. But when our friends and colleagues of the League rejected them, with whom we shared battles, difficult moments and so on, this has genuinely worried us. I would like for them, if possible, a ransom in order to continue with us this battle in favour of bathing enterprises and walkers. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u197	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 4.9, first signed by Senator La Russa, who is speaking on a subject already mentioned by Senator Pagano, namely the issue of dry coupons. I believe that the government and the majority have lost an opportunity to extend the existence of a measure that favours the leasing of the weakest sections of the population. In fact, it is a matter of extending the dry coupon to 10% for those who, instead of renting the properties at market prices, therefore with a certainly greater profit, agree to rent at agreed rent, that is to say the fees that the associations and unions representative of the tenants agree with the local authorities to calm the market. It is a social measure, a measure that protects on the one hand the poorest and poorest classes and on the other the building property that, in a virtuous way, makes its properties available to weaker categories and social groups. From this point of view, I hope that when we go to the vote on these amendments, there will be a rethink by the majority, and perhaps also by the Government, of the desirability of approving this amendment proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u198	Mr President, I would briefly like to explain Amendment 4.0.2 which concerns the possibility of finally being able to unblock the funds for local television stations, close to the territory, which have had difficulties over the years. These resources exist. It is simply a question of including this extension in order to ensure that there are no problems with the delivery, also in the light of many bureaucratic issues. So, let's thank the government for engaging in this direction. This is no small thing, because 5,000 employees are prevented from being fired. So, in the face of those who say we don't care about work. Therefore, we also share the reformulation done together with the majority and thank the Government for this important commitment. On the subject of Bolkestein, I make the statement on the other amendment, we absolutely agree with an extension, but I cannot believe that Senator Mallegni, very experienced, does not know that the extensions are made when there are urgencys. As it is already extended to 2020, there will certainly be the right opportunity to move in that direction. So, I'm gonna calm her down. We're thinking the same way. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u199	Mr President, I also wanted to speak on the amendment that my colleague, Mr Romeo, has just referred to, having been presented with the other colleagues of the Democratic Party with a similar amendment, and then approved by the Commission with a text 2. This is a very important amendment because it avoids a risk of blocking funds for local broadcasters. In the last parliamentary term we have worked hard for a real revolution, in the sense of a redevelopment of the local broadcasting sector, deciding, through the introduction of some meritorious parameters, that the funds for these activities should be allocated and broken down on the basis of the actual quality service performed by many broadcasters, in some cases almost at the level, if not even better, of the public service of RAI. On this road, the other day, at the hearing at the 8th Commission, Minister Di Maio told the truth that he wanted to continue, appreciating the work that the Democratic Party has carried out in the last parliamentary term. In order for this to happen, the government will now have to provide adequate funding for the fund in the financial field. But this will be the talk of the next few months. In the meantime, the amendment was important, we tabled it, it was approved in the Commission and we are satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u200	Mr President, we too agree with what some Members have already said before us on this amendment. We also presented it at the first signature of Senator La Russa. This should be an amendment shared by all groups, because on the one hand it saves thousands of jobs and, on the other hand, it greatly affects the priority of information. We are therefore pleased that it has been approved in the Commission. Now, we hope that all the groups and the House will also be able to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u201	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u202	Mr President, the opinion is in favour of Amendments 4.2, 4.15, 4.18, 4,500 (accepting the condition of the 5th Commission) and 4.0.2 (text 2). The remaining amendments called for withdrawal or the opinion was opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u203	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u204	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u205	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u206	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, once again for a speech on the economics of the work, as there is a rewording of the amendment on television stations, we are going to vote on text 2 tabled by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u207	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.2, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 4.8, which is essentially the same as Amendments 4.9, 9.30 and 13.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.8, tabled by Senator Pagano and other senators, essentially identical to amendments 4.9, tabled by Senators La Russa and Marsilio, 9.30, tabled by Senator Pagano and other Senators, and 13.0.1, tabled by Senator Pagano and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.10, tabled by Senator Durnwalder and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4.11, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators, until the following words: "until 31 December." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 4,12 to 4,14 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 4.15 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u208	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u209	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u210	GRASSI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to withdraw Amendment 4,17.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u211	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 4.18, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,500 (text 2)/1, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,500 (text 2/2), tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,500 (text 2)/3, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4,500 (text 2), tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.19, tabled by Senator Durnwalder and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.20, tabled by Senator Durnwalder and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.21, tabled by Senator Steger and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 13.0.12, tabled by Senator Pagano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.22 is improbable.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u212	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u213	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u214	GRASSI (M5S). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 4.23.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u215	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.24, tabled by Senator Pagano and other Senators, identical to Amendments 4.25, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other Senators, and 4.26, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.0.1 and 4.0.904 cannot be proposed. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4.0.2 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u216	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u217	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u218	VONO (M5S). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 4.0.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u219	The Presidency takes note of this. Amendments 4.0.5 and 4.0.6 have also been withdrawn. Amendments 4.0.4 and 4.0.16 are absorbed by the adoption of amendment 4.0.2 (text 2). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4.0.15, tabled by Senator Durnwalder and other senators, until the words "1 July 2019." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 5,300 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u220	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u221	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u222	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, on Amendment 4.0.15, my vote and the votes of Senators Grasso and Errani wanted to be against.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u223	The Presidency takes note of this. Amendments 4.0.7 and 4.0.9 have been withdrawn. Let us move on to amendment 4.0.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.8, tabled by Senator La Russa, identical to amendments 4.0.10, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, and 4.0.17, tabled by Senator Pagano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.0.12 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 4.0.14, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 4.0.14, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, until December 31. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 4.0.13 to 4.0.18 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u224	Mr President, I rise to announce the withdrawal of amendment 5.0.1 and to briefly explain Amendment 5.0.3 of which I am first a signatory. It marvels at the government's opposite opinion on the amendment. It comes to think that there is no attention for Italians abroad. And it is even more astonishing because, with the adoption of this amendment, which, Madam President, will not be adopted because the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 (and is therefore deemed not to be voting), it would simply extend the time limits by which voluntary disclosure could be used. This means that we would give an opportunity to a whole series of fellow countrymen living abroad who have not paid taxes. However, I would like to point out that these are not tax evaders, but compatriots who, being deceived by the concept of a ban on double taxation, often, in the light of the fact that they have paid taxes in their place of residence, are in error. It is astonishing, therefore, that we do not want to adopt this amendment, because it would not only benefit our fellow citizens abroad but also the state's coffers, because it would give us the opportunity to have six more months to regularise. In times when, as we have seen today, the spread splashing for the umpteenth time, the fact that no amendment of this kind is approved unfortunately demonstrates the smallness of this Government [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u225	I have to tell you that the amendment you have tabled has been declared inadmissible. That is why it will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u226	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u227	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u228	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking to announce the withdrawal of Amendment 5.2, because it has already been turned into an agenda in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u229	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u230	Mr President, I call on the authors to withdraw all the amendments referred to in Article 5, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u231	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u232	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u233	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u234	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I withdraw Amendments Nos 5.1 and 5.7 and I would ask that they be transformed into agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u235	I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on Senator Unterberger's request.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u236	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u237	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u238	The G5.1 and G5.7 agendas, having been accepted by the Government, will not be put to the vote. Amendment 5.2 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 5.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.3, tabled by Senator Pagano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 5.4, which is identical to amendment 5.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.4, tabled by Senator Pagano and other senators, identical to amendment 5.5, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.6, tabled by Senator Parrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5,300 is precluded by the rejection of the first part of amendment 4.0.15. Amendment 5.8 is unacceptable. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5301 tabled by Senator Berutti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.0.1 and 5.0.2 have been withdrawn. Amendments 5.0.3 to 5.0.300 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments referred to in Article 6, which are referred to above, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u239	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 6.1, 6.3 (text 2), 6.4, 6.10 and 6.13. I call for a withdrawal or I am against the other amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u240	Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u241	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.1 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 6.2 is therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.3 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 6.4, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 6.5 has been withdrawn. [[Senator Verducci points out that he wants to intervene.]] The Democratic Party had said that it would withdraw all amendments if the 5th Commission had taken the opposite view. Amendment 6.6 is therefore withdrawn. Please, Senator Verducci. Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, only on this amendment do we withdraw.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u242	I take note of that. Please let me know. Otherwise, it's a mess. We therefore move on to Amendment 6.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u243	President. - I request that the vote be taken and that I speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u244	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u245	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, I rise on this amendment, which we have not withdrawn because it is a political amendment. This is an amendment which has been rejected in the Commission and this is a serious matter for us. It is a proposal because, Mr President, it speaks of the right to study, of out-of-office students: it proposes that the possibility continue that as many out-of-office students as possible may have access to tax deductions for rents. The right to study is the essence of Article 3 of our Constitution: it means removing the obstacles that prevent everyone from achieving and that, in this case, prevent the girls and boys of our country from being put in a position to study, to be protagonists, to become a ruling class, to revitalize our democracy as well. That is why Amendment 6.6 is important, which contains many aspects. The measures contained in it have been incorporated into the previous budget laws, at the end of years when the Governments of the Democratic Party doubled the funds for the right to study and introduced a revolutionary measure, that of the no tax area for students of the less well-off families. These are fundamental measures, because our society is full of walls, colleagues. To approve this amendment would mean to break down these walls; walls which you, the government's lords, are raised today; they are walls of inequality and inequality. By rejecting this amendment, you will be wronging our country, a wrong which we, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, will fight with all our might. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u246	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.6, tabled by Senator Verducci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u247	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u248	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u249	GRANATO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to turn Amendment 6.7 into an agenda, which I have already prepared, and which I have not been able to forward to the Presidency for a moment.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u250	I invite the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda that has just been presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u251	Mr President, the change in the agenda, which the Government accepts as a recommendation, is fine.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u252	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u253	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u254	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, this is the second case. I agree that there may be a sudden transformation of an amendment to the agenda, it may also happen that the texts are not ready, but it would be good if they were tabled anyway. In any case, specifically, I did not understand whether the agenda was accepted or whether it was accepted as a recommendation and whether it was accepted by my colleague. Only to better understand the progress of the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u255	I understand you've been accepted, but I invite the government to specify better. GUIDESI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, we welcome this as a recommendation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would like to inform my fellow Members that the text of the G6.7 agenda has just been received. I'm saying this to make you aware of it. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G6.7 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.10.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u256	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u257	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u258	PAGE (FI-BP). Mr President, these two amendments relate to an extension which the Forza Italia Group does not like at all, because it concerns the requirement of vaccination for enrolment in schools. We believe that this type of measure is detrimental to the possibility of meeting the health and protection needs of children. The incident that took place only yesterday of two children who unfortunately lost their lives must make us think not only of those who propose this amendment, but above all of us senators who are committed here to trying to do our duty in the interests of our fellow citizens, particularly children. This is the reason why we strongly opposed the extension of schools' adaptation to fire regulations and, in the same way, we call on the proposers of this amendment to withdraw it, because we consider it to be seriously detrimental to the interests of children, children, and to extend the vaccination obligation for enrolment in schools. I therefore declare the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats absolutely opposed. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u259	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u260	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u261	RONZULLI (FI-BP). Bravo! [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, Amendment 6.10 - I have to correct what has been said - does not actually provide for the extension of the obligation, which remains in force, but it is a legislative artifice in order to avoid the vaccination obligation (which persists) for one more year, delaying the presentation of the vaccination certificate to kindergarten and kindergarten. It's been a while since we decided to make seat belts compulsory, and then we arranged that the guards couldn't be fined for another year. I mean, it's a bit of an artifice. In fact, the government contract between Movimento 5 Stars and the League provided measures, which I hope, to reconcile school attendance with health protection. In fact, extending by one year the delivery of the vaccination certificate unfortunately does not make either one or the other and today there was an appeal from the President of the Department of Infectious Diseases of the Higher Institute of Health who spoke of the danger to public health linked to this amendment, while recognising the free choice of this Parliament. It does not protect either health or school attendance, but simply postpones the delivery of the certificate and this means that the principals do not know the vaccination status of the children. This goes to exclude from school precisely those fragile children, oncology and immunodepressed children. [[Applause from the FI-BP, PD and Senator Errani Groups.]] Sorry, I don't like applause because we're not playing, but we're talking about the health of children, the small ones and the fragile ones. The Higher Institute of Health today said that there are about 10,000 children at real risk of school exclusion, so we are not talking about reconciling school attendance with health. Furthermore, this measure has no possibility of increasing vaccine coverage, as we have always stated as Movimento 5 Stars. This Parliament is sovereign and is free to make its own choices as it has done so many times, on Stamina and on so many measures on which we could protect the health of the little ones. Of course I respect the choice of the Group to which I belong and of Parliament, but for personal history, professional history and, painfully, as a mother, I can do nothing but dissociate myself from my Group and express an indignant vote against it. [[Applause from the FI-BP, PD and FdI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u262	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u263	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u264	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, yesterday, in the first Commission, we also strongly opposed this amendment, recalling what Mr Pagano and Mrs Fattori have just said: any political choice presupposes a choice of responsibility. Here someone is taking responsibility not to move a simple date, because it is not a simple extension, but to remove Italy from achieving the goal of immunity of flock, which goes to protect the whole community and therefore the health of all. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] See that the greatest risk runs when we begin to pass on the message that, as someone thinks, we can go against science and that many science fiction theories have the upper hand over science or can have the same value: this puts everyone's health at risk. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] Parliament cannot assume the responsibility of endangering the health not only of the smallest and the immunodepressed, but of all, because in this way the sense of community is lacking. We had a clear line: together with the obligation, Mr President, the Lorenzin decree also proposed a strong and constant training to inform parents, because in Italy we have a social reality made up of so many fragility and lack of vaccinations due to lack of information. Combining the obligation to inform can lead to the achievement of that result, which exists in many countries of Northern Europe, where the obligation is not there, because there is training, which allows us to see in vaccines a form of protection for the whole community. Let us not forget that we are here to protect the Italian community: let us do this, because this is a service that we make available to everyone. We do not assume - rather, do not assume, because we will vote against this amendment - the responsibility of endangering the health of the population. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u265	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u266	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u267	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I would simply like to point out that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is also totally opposed to this amendment. The interventions of those who preceded me have already specified, in a very clear and thorough way, that on vaccinations cannot be contracted. Unfortunately, this is an extremely topical issue and we are therefore very much in favour of all the senators putting their hands on the conscience and thinking very deeply about this proposal. I therefore hope that there will be a very strong vote against, because the issue of vaccinations must overcome the barriers between parties. Furthermore, I do not think it is right that this rule should be included in a measure extending the time limits. I therefore vote against this amendment. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u268	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u269	As Senator Pagano has already intervened for the Forza Italia Group, he can only intervene in dissent from the Group. Would you like to speak in dissent from the Group, Senator Binetti? BINETTI (FI-BP). No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u270	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u271	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u272	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I agree with the reasons I have heard from my fellow Members before me. I was present tonight in the Commission when the majority decided to vote on this amendment, which is formally a postponement, but that you should have the courage and honesty to call tombstone on compulsory vaccination. [[Applause from the FdI and PD groups and Senator Ronzulli]] You have often spoken of honesty, but intellectual honesty is just as important as criminal and legal honesty. This is not just a postponement, but a postponement sine die, or a tombstone on the policy of vaccinations in the country. The decree-law is called a thousandprorogues not only because there are a thousand arguments, but because there are a thousand times when the provisions are postponed. When you do not have the courage to say things as they are, you prefer to postpone. So I want to ask those who sit on the benches of the government and the Minister of Health what they think, because I still don't understand that. I have read an agency in which the Minister - I think I understand - says that Parliament will provide, because it is not about putting an end to vaccination policy. So, if that is true, I formally ask those who sit on the benches of the Government to express themselves and say that this is a buffer measure that applies only for a few months and that the Government and the majority undertake to bring a different measure to this House, for its nature and purposes, by the end of this year. Otherwise, we will be legitimated to think of what I said in the premise, namely that this is the victory of the No Vax people, of those who make people believe that vaccination is bad. [[Applause from the PD Group]] On the other hand, in the civilized countries one is vaccinated and, if one does not have to vaccination, it is often because there is no need for a sanction on the part of the State to do what everyone, with common sense, considers necessary. The history of this country speaks, with many examples, of millions of lives saved from vaccinations. Therefore, Mr President-in-Office of the Senate, I would like to formally ask you, through you too, that the Government and the majority should now respond to this issue. I can understand that throughout the night the Government and the majority do not say a single word to justify and justify their measures, not a word; I can understand that, because it is a decree of urgency and we have understood that it is legit to lighthouses off. But not on this issue: the government and the majority say what they think and what they intend to do. [[Applause from the FI-BP, PD and FdI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u273	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u274	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u275	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the North-League Group will vote in favour of amendment 6.10. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the PD Group]] It is a proposal of common sense, which intervenes on a coercive measure of a decree-law, that Lorenzin, messy, illiberal and discriminatory. [[Protests and comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u276	No one interrupted when others expressed a different idea. Please have Senator Arrigoni say what he thinks.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u277	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). I repeat that it intervenes on a decree-law, Lorenzin, messy, illiberal and discriminatory, which divided families and the scientific community. There isn't just Burioni. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the PD Group]] RONZULLI (FI-BP). It's not about that. MALPEZZI (PD). Science exists! Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). This amendment does not remove the obligation, but postpones by one year the ban on access to the nest and to the child due to the lack of documentation of vaccination. Ladies and gentlemen of the Democratic Party, this amendment does not bring the country back in the Middle Ages, as some of you said yesterday in the Commission. It is an amendment of common sense, made in the absence of the establishment of the national vaccination register, containing the right to health and the right to individual and collective education. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] With this amendment, all children aged between zero and six in September will be able to go to school, nest and childhood. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the PD Group.]] MALPEZZI (PD). And get sick! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malpezzi, you haven't been interrupted. So, please don't interrupt. Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). And children and adolescents between the ages of six and sixteen can go to school, who, according to Lorenzin, may not vaccinate, pay the fine and stop the virus. That's why it's discriminatory. That is why the Group of the North Legacy will vote in favour of this amendment. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u278	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u279	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u280	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, my speech is to remove any alibi from those who have wanted to continue to exploit an important form of prevention such as vaccination that the 5-star Movimento has always supported. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] [[Comments from the PD Group.]] The only thing that we continue to reject from the sender is the possibility of wanting to treat Italians as sheep that must be forced rather than informed. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] [[Comments from the PD Group.]] LONARDO (FI-BP). What are you talking about? TAVERNA (M5S). The only goal on the part of the Movimento 5 Stars, which I can be shared also by the League, is to allow parents who have all the intentions to vaccinate their children to do so in environments that are able to welcome children. Today the vaccination centers are comparable to the places where the beasts are branded! [[Protests from the PD Group. Comments from the FI-BP Group.]] MALPEZZI (PD). What are you talking about? TAVERNA (M5S). And it is the result of a health policy that over five years saw more than 4 billion removed from the Health Service, probably because the priority problem in the Democratic Party instead of children was banks and bank financing. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Vivacious protests from the PD Group]] FARAONE (PD). Buffoon! What does the banks have to do with it? TAVERNA (M5S). Stop it! Stop it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's not possible. Can you please sit down? [[Protests from the PD Group]] When you spoke and expressed your opinion no one protested. FARAONE (PD). The banks... president. So, does this mean that every time a different opinion is expressed, there has to be bash? This is not Parliament! [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Conclude, Senator Taverna. TAVERNA (M5S). So President, and I conclude, there is no attack on public health, but there is a deep respect for Italy and Italian citizens who deserve a policy that thinks of them by informing themselves and not hiding behind an obligation. This time they made 10 vaccines mandatory but, considering how they behaved and the obligations and impositions that forced this country, we are very happy to return to a Republic that is democratic and allows everyone to make their choices consciously and to do the good of Italy not obliging, but informing people. That's what you're asking. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]] BELLANOVA (PD). Kiss, good guys!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u281	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u282	Senator Mallegni, what subject do you wish to speak on? Your Group has already expressed its views on this subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u283	MALLEGNI (FI-BP). Mr President, I give you my word that I do not speak on this matter. I wear glasses to see closely, but from afar I see well and Senator Taverna, Vice President of the Senate, at the end of his speech sent all of us, who do not think like you, to that country and I saw it with my own eyes. [[Applause from the PD Group. Denial of Senator Taverna]] This attitude in this House is not acceptable, Mr President. It's not acceptable! These dress up nicely, but they're always the same! [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups. Comments of Senator Taverna]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Get out! Get out!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u284	I'm the only one out. Sending out is a decision of the Presidency and no one else. I hope that Senator Taverna has not made that gesture, because as Vice President she has an institutional role that does not allow her to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u285	We have all seen it and I say to you, Mr President, that I do not allow myself to ask the Presidency to do what it itself can easily decide. I have to tell you, though, that I'm outraged that, even though these gentlemen are dressed up lately, they're always the same, always. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u286	When this session is over, because everything that happens is filmed, we'll see the footage. If what you have reported has happened, we will decide accordingly. BOTTICS (M5S). And if he doesn't, he'll see!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u287	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u288	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u289	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, we will see all the videos, all the videos of what happened in this House! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It will certainly be so. There are no different treatments in this House. TAVERNA (M5S). I have no doubt, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u290	Before we proceed to the vote on amendment 6.10, I would like to say that the Democratic Party has requested that this amendment be voted on by secret ballot. [[Applause from the PD Group]] There's no need to applaud. On this amendment, I do not allow the secret ballot, first of all because Article 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure does not allow, since it is an extension of a time limit, to affect the civil and ethical social relations provided in particular by Article 32 of the Constitution. In addition, according to practice, and even if it were admissible, requests for secret voting must be made in due time, in the sense that there is an awareness in this House that this is done by established practice. Apart, however, from the question of timing, which in this sense would not be respected, it is precisely the matter, as provided for in Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, that does not allow it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u291	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u292	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u293	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I would just like to point out that, from our point of view, this issue is in fact hidden by an extension of time. The content of the measure is quite different and corresponds exactly to what is provided for in our Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Ronzulli]] It therefore falls within the scope of the specific cases for which the secret vote is provided. After that, if there is a question of practice and time, I would ask you to put the amendment aside and put it to the vote at the next sitting, so that you still have time to inform all colleagues of the secret vote. It is such an important matter, which concerns the lives of our children, that we certainly cannot stop at an interpretation - allow me - which is too punctual and not respectful of the overall meaning of the subject. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u294	Senator Marcucci, maybe I couldn't explain myself. I did not just say that there is a matter of time. I said, among other things, that from my point of view there is also a question of timing because, according to established practice, such requests must be made not at the last minute - as has been done now - with the collection of signatures, but in due course. Beyond that, I do not think there are any grounds for applying the vote required under Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, I do not accept the secret vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 6.10, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]] FARAONE (PD). Shame! PUGLIA (M5S). Get used to it! BELLANOVA (PD). Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 6.13, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 6.14, 6.15 and 6.17 have been withdrawn. Amendment 6.16 is not possible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.18, tabled by Senator Faedeli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.0.1, tabled by Senator Rizzotti, identical to amendment 6.0.2, tabled by Senator Zanda. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u295	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u296	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u297	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would ask you to consider suspending the sitting in order to allow Commissions 6a and 11a to continue examining the Dignity Decree. I would therefore ask you to consider this request on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I ask whether there are any comments on the proposal put forward?
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u298	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u299	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u300	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, we are happy with the suspension of the sitting, but we would like to understand how the work continues, namely whether we should stay or return when the House is reunited. I think we should know.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u301	In order to enable the Commissions to work on the decree of dignity, the session will be removed. As no comments are made, so it remains established. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u302	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u303	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u304	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, in the understandable confusion, I would like to stress one fact. In the vote on Amendment 6.20 on vaccines, two Senators from Movimento 5 Stars rightly spoke. I am quite right, because the first intervention was on one position, while the second, that of Senator Taverna, on another. But then both senators voted the same way. I would like to know why there has been this divergence, because - otherwise - the impression is of an artificial way of speaking, or - worse - that there has been a conviction, but we have not heard of it. In other words, the senator, who expressed her opposition to the amendment, then voted in favour. I do not know whether it is a mistake or a form of coercion, which could be feared in view of the attention that my colleague has received.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u305	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u306	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u307	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, I have voted strongly against this and will continue this battle throughout the parliamentary term, whether you like it or not. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u308	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-31.ana.u309	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday, August 6, at 11 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 533 p.m.
