ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 21 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u3	I note that in Annex B to today's Minutes, a list of the Bureaus of the Permanent Commissions which, on 21 June, were set up will be published.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u6	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of my colleagues and especially of the Government to what is happening in an area that is apparently far away, but very close to us. Yesterday the Interior Minister Salvini was rightly in Libya to develop agreements aimed at curbing immigration, in the face of the emergency that Italy and Europe are facing. However, there is another part of Africa where, these days, something extremely positive is happening, unfortunately in the carelessness of our country. I am referring to the Horn of Africa, from which one of the most significant migratory flows that arrive in our country. It is precisely in these hours that a historical fact is taking place, greeted with extreme favor by the United Nations, the African Union, the European Union, the United States and many other countries: a high-level delegation of the Eritrean Government is going to Addis Ababa to grasp the news that came from Ethiopia after, in April, a real Government of change was elected. The new Ethiopian Prime Minister, Abiy Ahmed, launched a process of peace and stabilisation of the entire area, first of all towards Eritrea, its own country, freeing political prisoners, and neighbouring Somalia. This turning point, of extreme importance, could finally lead to the peace of the area, with the recognition of the Italian borders that triggered the war fought between 1998 and 2000, which caused more than 80,000 deaths, famines, suffering and migration to our country. We believe that this is extremely important precisely because of the repercussions it can have on the stabilisation of the region. I am referring to Ethiopia, Eritrea, but also Somalia (where the Ethiopian Premier went a few hours ago), Kenya, subjected to Islamic fundamentalism, South Sudan and even Yemen, which is exactly front of Eritrea and Somalia. This important event obviously has many enemies. Last Saturday the Ethiopian Premier suffered an attack during a rally. He saved himself, but two people died and 150 were injured. Italy's role in the region is fundamental from a historical, cultural, economic, political, strategic, military and security point of view, not only for immigration. We hope that the Italian Government plays a leading role and is not absent in an area of strategic interest to our country. We also hope that the Commission will urge the European Union to play a leading role in the peace and stabilisation of the area, including through an extraordinary plan of economic and social support. In short, we hope that Italy will make itself felt, because that is what those peoples and those countries demand, that is, the presence of our country. We therefore ask Minister Moavero Milanesi, who is certainly competent in this matter, to inform this House and, above all, to play a leading role, because so far no one has noticed it. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u7	Senator Urso, the Presidency will forward your request to the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u10	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, only for the economy of our work, I do not want to repeat the speech made by Senator Urso, to which I fully agree. There is a story that speaks, there is a tradition of relationships that has also seen our Parliament in the front row. I would remind you, for example, that the Italian Chamber of Deputies, at the beginning of the 2000s, did an act of help and support to the new Somali Parliament, which was then set up. Eritrea and Ethiopia have lived tens of years of a war that has led, for the young Eritreans, to three years of compulsory military service; and of course this has also led to multiplying the escapes from that country. Today, the Ethiopian Prime Minister's initiative is of great importance for Africa, for the Horn of Africa and, indirectly, for Europe too, which from those countries unfortunately sees many people coming and trying to push themselves to it. Therefore it is essential that Italy, by recovering its central relationship, can carry out an action of mediation and support, also thanks to cooperation with these countries. I therefore agree with Senator Urso's request that there be information from the Government in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u11	Senator Casini, of course, is also of the same concern as the Presidency for your request. Now, ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the agenda, I wish, on behalf of all of us, Senator Simone Pillon, who became the father of a child named Elizabeth. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u12	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 435. I would remind you that at its sitting on 21 June the rapporteur gave the oral report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators and representatives of the Government, this decree-law, which was born as an intervention of ordinary administration, could, with the establishment of a political government, change its mark and become the most appropriate vehicle to dissolve nodes that risk being an obstacle to the resumption of the zones of the two seismic craters. We want this, Mr President, but we would at least like this decree-law to solve a long-standing problem which is poisoning the civil and economic life of the city of L'Aquila. The city of L'Aquila is not a city like any other; it is the city whose urban center suffered the most serious seismic event of the Second World War throughout Europe. It had never happened that the epicenter of an earthquake was inside a city. Abruzzo then has another sad record, because in a few years he was injured twice, even with wounds of different magnitude, in 2009 and 2016. This specificity should be kept in mind when considering intervening on what has happened and what is happening in this city. Let's do a little chronicle. In the past, in Italy, interventions in favour of disaster-stricken areas have never been notified to Europe, because they have never been regarded as State aid. Perhaps because we have a somewhat different conception of Europe, linked to the vision of De Gasperi, Schumann and Adenauer, for which Europe should first of all have been a soul and not a bureaucracy: Europe should have had a heart. The government presided over by Senator Monti notified (in fact late) the tax discount that had been granted to those who started working in L'Aquila and Europe, considering that intervention as a state aid, asked entrepreneurs, craftsmen, citizens who worked during the reconstruction, to return the discounts they had received, increased by interest. It must also be borne in mind that this was done only for L'Aquila. All previous missed notifications have, as it were, fallen into prescription and subsequent interventions in favour of the populations affected by the earthquake in 2016 and 2017 were not considered State aid. So we came to determine a kind of window of "disopportunity," which concerns only the city of L'Aquila and the crater of 2009. Now, all this has been done on the basis of a market concept - let one who has always been liberal - that defining scholastic and rigid is little to say. Someone in this House has to show me that an entrepreneur who has run his business in Munich or Paris in recent years has been disadvantaged by the situation in which Eagle entrepreneurs have come to visit, who have carried out their business in the presence of a real disaster. On the other hand, the Eagle entrepreneurs have adhered to the law, to what the State has told them to do. They ask nothing but that this fact be respected. I say this to the friends of the League: the eagles do not find themselves in a situation very different from that in which the farmers have found themselves with regard to milk quotas. If there is a responsibility here, admitted and not allowed to exist (and, as far as I am concerned, I do not grant it, because those were not State aid), this responsibility is of the state apparatus and cannot be the citizens who pay. Unless we adhere to at least a Manichea view, which is the one that is reported in the order by which the aid was considered State aid. It is stated in the order that a diligent undertaking must normally be able to ensure that aid has been notified. End of quote. Here we are at the paradox. Colleagues, Europe basically tells us not only that those who made a business in L'Aquila, the historic centre most affected in this millennium, must return the money, but also that those entrepreneurs, who should be considered heroes if they considered the context in which they operated, should have made sure that the alleged aid had been notified to Europe. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] That is the situation, Mr President. And this situation worsens for a further element. In fact, when the so-called State aid, the relief, was approved by the Berlusconi Government, it was in force in Europe, the so-called temporary framework, which covered the period between 2008 and 2011. That measure, Mr President, was published in the Official Journal on 27 November 2011. But since the financial system came into force on 1 January 2012, it is claimed that, for an instant of difference, the temporary framework does not apply, so there is no franchise of 500,000 euros. A franchise which would not have been a solution, but would have greatly alleviated the problem. Mr President, I believe that the government should use the instrument of this decree-law to resolve the problem, reconsidering the judgments it has given on the amendments that all the groups have tabled. The fixing of the deadline - for the application of the exemption - i.e. whether the date of 27 November or 1 January - does not depend on Europe, but on our Government, as the European Commissioner said in a letter sent to the Mayor of L'Aquila Pierluigi Biondi. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Let us try, then, to have some courage; let us try not to be anti-European and to scar Europe, but to have a straight back, especially when we are right. If this House comes up with an amendment adopted unanimously and contests the fact that those granted to the eagles are state aid, I believe that the Government will be stronger in the negotiation; it will have more chance and will prove in fact to consider our citizens more unfortunate. They are not guinea pigs but ordinary citizens. They deserve even more respect. [[Applause from the FI-BP groups and Senator La Pietra. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u14	Senator Castaldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u15	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to approve the last speech, in order of time, aimed at tackling the emergency and directing the delicate phase of reconstruction in the regions of central Italy. The balance of this seismic sequence has been - we all know - very heavy in terms of lives, upset economy, devastated cultural heritage. The material damage estimated by Civil Protection is more than 23 billion and has been added to those already significant in 2009 and 2012. It is the primary objective of the government, ours, of all, to provide the populations affected by the earthquake with the tools and support necessary to ensure the return to normality, to life and to work before the tragic events. So much has been done so far and so much remains to be done. We are faced with a very complex regulatory framework to which 61 orders must be added (35 of the Special Commissioner and 26 of Civil Protection). To the people who have faced immense suffering with dignity and determination I want to say clearly: we are at your side, we will be more so than yesterday, with strong commitment and concrete acts. Action has also been taken at European level, particularly in recent years, to strengthen response capacities and enhance disaster prevention and preparedness. The European Parliament, in its resolution on the situation in Italy after the earthquakes, highlighted the need to implement synergies between all available funds to support rural areas and territories with agricultural activities, inviting Member States to invest more in research activities in order to prevent damage and to monitor compliance with anti-seismic construction standards. A few days ago I said that so much has been done and so much - let me say - could have been done better. The protection of citizens and territories must be the basis for our action. We must take note of the need to design a policy that is consistent with the specificities of our country, responsible not only administratively, but also culturally towards the whole of humanity, a historical, cultural and landscape heritage unique in the world. In order to meet the needs of the populations concerned, the Commission - whom I thank - has, among other things, approved an amendment that reopens the time window to exclude from the formation of taxable income the incomes of the destroyed buildings: a common sense measure aimed at alleviating the otherwise unsustainable tax burden. An important agenda on seismic microzoning was also adopted in the course of the work, which plays an important and key role in risk prevention and mitigation strategies. I would also like to point out the government's acceptance of other agendas - I took part in a couple of sessions of the Special Commission - concerning the strengthening of psychological assistance activities and pathways and tax relief for companies employing persons resident in the affected municipalities. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to stress certain demands that continue to come from the affected populations, such as guaranteeing the highest quality of reconstruction, continuity of the incentive mechanism for energy restructuring and redevelopment and extension of it to anti-seismic adjustments and consolidations. Another request is to update the geological map of Italy and give maximum support to businesses and employment in all affected areas. I believe that, as men and women involved in the management of public affairs, we absolutely cannot afford to ignore these suggestions that come from those who have seen their existence upset. It is our duty to listen, our duty to give effective answers. I think, and so we all think, that we have made, with the changes we have proposed to the text of the decree-law, precisely this: to support the reconstruction of both the places and the aspirations of the affected populations. It will be a test bench, undersecretary Santangelo, just of this legislature just begun. We're doing our part. The excellent work carried out by the rapporteur, Mr Patuanelli, the colleague of the Paolo Arrigoni League, the President of the Commission, Erica Rivolta, and above all - and I am excited to say this - by the Commission itself, its offices and members of the minority and majority parliaments, shows today that we have worked well. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u16	She's registered to speak Senator Rivolta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u17	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law before us was issued following repeated requests from local communities and industry groups involved in administrative procedures for the implementation of post-seismic reconstruction operations. Unfortunately, two years after the devastating earthquake that hit central Italy, the reconstruction has not yet started and the population, already hit and tested by the loss of their loved ones and their belongings, is exasperated in having to live still in emergency. In the earthquake territories destruction still reigns, the productive fabric is non-existent; slow procedures, constraints and bureaucratic hiccups make it difficult to approve the implementation plans. To get an idea of the actual delays in progress, it is enough to think that the removal of the rubble has not yet been completed and that not all SAE houses have yet been delivered to those entitled. On the other hand, the announcement of the arrival of a decree-law on the earthquake 2016-2017 created many expectations on the part of all, also because the first texts elaborated by the commissioner for reconstruction, with a content composed of 18 articles, entered into the merit of a series of urgent issues reported by the earthquake territories. However, the text of the decree-law Gentiloni Silveri, as approved by the previous Council of Ministers, is of a different tenor and is limited to some - few - extensions considered improcrastinable. I am not going to read this because we are going to discuss these issues for the whole debate. Therefore, the Special Commission was forced to supplement the text of the Decree-Law in order to respond to a number of important technical requests made by all audit entities, particularly by the mayors. The latter perhaps find themselves in the most dramatic condition, because even though they themselves were earthquaked, they found themselves having to instill courage and to represent the entire community that suffered human losses even in terms of suicide because some people did not make it to resist after such destruction. That is precisely why, as Mr Castaldi said, we in the Commission have chosen together to use a very serious and thorough working method. We all audited and tried to extrapolate every problem to solve. The measure, as I said earlier, is partial especially in terms of coverage, but it was due to all the populations and not only those of the territories affected by the earthquake of 2016-2017, but also to those of the Municipality of L'Aquila and the Municipalities of the Island of Ischia. We have had the opportunity to bring out the criticalities and things to be resolved. We cannot - I repeat - solve everything and cover all expenses, but this is a working basis that will serve for future measures and therefore is to be read with the utmost attention and respect for this land and, above all, for the population that lives in it. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] Above all, we note the amendments adopted by the Commission, promoted by our Group - first of all an important intervention on both the building regulations and the code of cultural goods and the landscape - aimed at allowing the installation of temporary artefacts in areas of private property in the earthquake-stricken municipalities, as prefabricated or removable structures used in place of the main house declared unattainable. The norm, repeatedly proposed and supported by the League during the examination of previous decrees-law on the earthquake 2016-2017, aims to resolve the current situations resulting from the state of emergency caused by the earthquake of Central Italy. To make us understand, we refer to cases such as that of Grandma Peppina, who at the tender age of 95 had to leave her home. The rule also provides for the ineffectiveness of the demolition and return orders in pristino and of the preventive seizure measures already issued for all works and works that comply with a number of pre-established conditions. Another important issue that has been addressed is the possibility for dioceses to carry out interventions up to 500,000 euros based on the procedures foreseen for private reconstruction, therefore for the restoration and departure of small works in the earthquake churches. Then the question of the lack of definition of past condones and therefore the lack of habitability and agibility of buildings earthquaked due to lack of documentation was addressed. We still hope that before the end of the discussion of this measure we can resolve the problem of the sanatories of small urban differences, because maybe it is only a changed window or really small interventions, which are all things that are blocking the reconstruction. The people deserve to have all our help in order to be able to leave. I do not think that our fellow citizens in these unfortunate areas do not want to leave or have the courage. They have wounds that will never be healed again, but we have to give them the opportunity to do so, we have to make simplifications, they cannot die of quirks and bureaucracy, we absolutely cannot allow that. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] I think these people are very willing to make sacrifices again, but with the prospect and the ultimate goal of rebuilding their homes, of restarting their activities, of giving back the opportunity to tourists to enjoy these beautiful areas. Mr President, I ask for permission to hand over the text of my speech, in which the list of various speeches continues, for example, as my colleague said earlier, there is the problem of the de minimis of L'Aquila. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You still have 30 seconds, so you can finish. RIVOLTA (L-SP). However this must emerge, then there will be the second reading in the House. It has been demonstrated in the special Commission and I hope it will be demonstrated today and in the coming days in this House, that we have a moral and political duty to give answers to these people. They deserve it, and we must all work hard to do so. It's a matter of justice. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u18	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u19	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank Senator Patuanelli, rapporteur for the measure, and, at the same time, I am obliged to express my solidarity with him, because I imagine the embarrassment he has experienced in drawing up this document, because there is nothing in it: nothing of this document will affect the quality of life of our fellow citizens, who have been waiting for two years to leave and cannot do so, as he says in a plastic way and - I would say - genuine the same rapporteur. He pointed out that it was essential to go beyond the areas of the decree-law and how the Commission has tried very hard, but unfortunately without success to find a solution to the problems of small discrepancies. The rapporteur added that "There are issues that we have not managed to touch and problems that we have not been able to solve" and that urban reflection on the extensive reconstruction will have to be done. Then it raises the white flag, when it states that the thirty issues addressed do not resolve a single point of those that hinder the start of the reconstruction. So what are we talking about today? The usual extensions? Basically, we are saying to our fellow citizens that a technician cannot make an assailant statement because the rules are confused, they are totally contradictory and there is no single regulatory reference. Therefore, it does not present the declaration and, therefore, no contribution is obtained and, therefore, reconstruction is not restarted. If today, here each of us had one of our fellow citizens affected by the earthquake and gave him this report two years later, what do you think would be his reaction? I'm afraid we're forgetting who we're talking about. We are talking about people who have lost a home, have lost a square, a church, a job, have lost their dignity and we, two years later, are telling them to wait, because we are still not able to tell them how things are done. This is intolerable! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And you know what's the most serious thing? That money is there: there are public funding; there are European funds. The President of the European Parliament Tajani - whom we thank for his good offices - has announced that there is a lot of money, from the vicious Europe, and yet the projects do not start. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Imagine that two years later that unequal treatment between those who live in the centers and in the red zones has not been eliminated compared to those who live outside the center of the village. By now no medieval village and no city affected by the earthquake has many inhabitants in the center, so they give the advantages to very few people, because now all the medieval villages are disabled. People live outside and all those who have built out for reasons of maintenance, quality of life or facilities cannot benefit from any facilities except the extension of certain tax facilities. In short, we call for the extension of the suspension of loans to be eliminated only in red areas because, for example, Ascoli Piceno has 800 people and families evacuated, but it is not part of the red zones. Do you realize what we're talking about? It didn't take long. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The exemption of the payment of the public land occupation tax for construction sites is reserved only for enterprises operating the reconstruction in historic centres. We could've gotten rid of this stuff. Most could do that. I understand that it is difficult in such a short time. We do not ask for radical change, but at least for the change of pace and, basically, we must also include another aspect: it is absolutely necessary to define the limit between discrepancies and abuse, in order to distinguish any new volumes for speculative purposes from those aimed at making existing volumes usable. I shall conclude, Mr President. I think that each of us wants to do our job by giving value to politics, if politics is still capable of taking responsibility. Here, today, we have assumed no responsibility, we have done the administrators, indeed the administrative ones, which is perhaps a role that is not ours. I hope and hope that, with the new budgetary session in September, this House will restore the dignity of this House's role, especially in memory of the 299 deaths. What has been done so far, unfortunately, is not enough. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Di Nicola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators and representatives of the Government, today the Senate is preparing to convert a decree-law that seeks to respond to the dramatic problems of the hundreds of thousands of earthquake victims who in four regions of Italy have lost homes, companies, entire countries and unfortunately also their family members. Well, the innocent victims who have lost their lives from Amatrice to Rigopiano go first of all our thoughts; victims of an unpredictable calamity, of course, but also of the ineptitude of those who, at the head of local and regional administrations, should have put in place all the necessary risk prevention measures. These losses and bereavements call on Parliament to make a renewed and solemn commitment to convert this decree-law, but above all to open a new page on the front of natural disasters, and of the earthquake in particular, starting to create the premises for real change that not only commit us to facing disasters in emergency, but also and above all to preventing and eliminating risks. The decree-law that we are examining, proposed by the Government Gentiloni Silveri, was constituted, as is known, of only two articles and asked us, in practice, to regulate extensions and suspensions of tax and contribution nature, including the suspension of the payment of the television canon. Only this, in short, as if for everything else - and the rest are the dramatic conditions in which the 50,157 persons assisted in hotels and other accommodations of luck - there was no urgency to put in place extraordinary measures really capable of starting a timely and effective reconstruction of the affected territories. With a response of extraordinary commitment and generosity, the new majority of government and other political forces, through the Special Commission, have fortunately widened the spectrum of problems addressed in the Decree-Law, putting in hand many of the emergencies dictated by the disastrous situation of the magnetized areas. And so, through the 42 amendments adopted that touched 30 - I repeat: 30 - new and different issues, measures have been launched that, among other things, extend the police structure and the state of emergency, the payment of taxes and taxes; they extend loans and allowances for mayors, IRPEF and IRES deadlines; They extend the integration fund; in short, they really speed up the reconstruction. I also recall the start of a solution which was given to the question of the reductions granted to companies affected by the 2009 L'Aquila earthquake, by the European Union considered State aid because of the bureaucratic failures of the past governments. But this is not only the legacy that the Gentleman Government has left us. Silveri and his predecessors. If we really want to do something important on this front, we must turn the page and remind ourselves that Italy is a country with a high seismic risk and that we need to focus our attention on the urgency of prevention. Some data: in 2016 the national seismic network recorded more than 53,000 earthquakes against an annual average of about 20,000; from 2000 today the INGV recorded 39 earthquakes of magnitude greater than 5 degrees, of which 10 between 2016 and 2017. And the future, unfortunately, promises nothing good. Well, what are we doing concretely for prevention? For example, we know that the statistics are pitiless, that most of the Italian school buildings are at risk (well 80% are without the necessary requirements) and that in some regions the situation is even worse: for example in Abruzzo, out of 417 school buildings that had regularly reopened last year, well 391, i.e. 93 percent, was at seismic risk, many with vulnerability indices equal to zero, the worst that could exist, such as the technical institute Luigi di Savoia di Chieti or the higher education institute Amedeo d'Aosta of L'Aquila. All this - I repeat - in Abruzzo, Region of earthquakes par excellence; the same Abruzzo where the exposure to risk is maximum and indiscriminate, as happened in the case of the hotel in Rigopiano, where, on the occasion of the earthquakes of January 2017 the people you know died unnecessarily. It would have sufficed that the Region had put in place the necessary map of the avalanches in order to avoid the catastrophe, preventing the opening of that structure in winter. For these failures are now investigated for murder, injury and manslaughter the three Presidents of the Region that have followed in the last decade: Ottaviano Del Turco, Gianni Chiodi and Luciano D'Alfonso, Senator Governor present in this Chamber, although in a situation of acclaimed incompatibility. Well - I said - what do we do in the face of this situation? From here to the next twenty years we will put in place about 40 billion investments, have been allocated approximately 40 billion. We must understand what has happened in recent years, how these resources have been used and above all prevent, prevent and prevent. It is high time that Parliament took the matter up and did so through the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry to clarify first the real risk situation in the country and to start an investigation into the actual use of those resources. Above all, however, the real issue - I repeat in this House and I would shout even more strongly - is the improcrastinable commitment to risk prevention and mitigation, without forgetting at this point an adequate focus for a policy of incentives for interventions to adapt and consolidate anti-seismic public and private buildings throughout the national territory. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u22	You are registered to speak Senator Nastri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u23	Mr President, this draft law of conversion provides - as is known not only to those involved, but in particular to those directly concerned, that is to say to the many taxpayers of the regions involved in the seismic events of August 2016 - for measures to suspend tax and contributory terms. The emergency measure, at first reading to the Senate and assigned to the Special Commission for the examination of urgent acts presented by the Government, as has been reminded by those who preceded me, arises from the need to meet the populations and businesses of Central Italy (Abruzzo, Lazio, Marche and Umbria) that, after the day of 24 August 2016, have seen the most obvious certainties of their daily life fall. On this terrible affair, with the dramatic consequences that have resulted, I recall that the Brothers of Italy was the first political force of the center-right coalition to have put as a priority the question of support and assistance to the earthquake victims. However, the measures contained in the measure are still insufficient to reverse the current situation of the population affected by the 2016 earthquake. I am thinking of the lack of funding for future contracts, which will expire in December, covering important and necessary technical and administrative figures in order to continue the reconstruction work, the lack of resources to be allocated to the approximately 700 staff units already working in the 130 municipalities of the crater or those derogating from the seasonal fixed-term recruitment of local police officers, where the costs will be borne by the already precarious municipal budgets. These are just a few measures which, in my opinion, should have found room within the text and which would have allowed for a faster recovery of normal conditions. The need to intervene, therefore, also at second reading to the House, in order not to run the risk of blocking the reconstruction procedures initiated, also in the light of the amendment approved by the Special Commission which assigns to the Municipalities the task of carrying out the preparatory activities for the issue of the opinion of environmental and urban conformity with the reconstruction works, I believe it can be a legislative path to be shared, considering that the decree-law expires on 29 July. Coming to the positive actions, I can not fail to point out with favor the forecast of an extension of the loans of the municipalities involved by the earthquake, although it should be specified that this extension applies to all the loans contracted by the municipalities of the crater regardless of the subject with which it was assumed: therefore not only for those contracts with Cassa depositi e loani, as currently planned. Therefore, the decree-law as a whole deals with aspects undoubtedly emergent, indifferent, as evidenced by its nature of emergency. But at the same time it is necessary to guarantee the mayors of the municipalities involved more direct power of intervention and more resources, so that the sad experiences of the recent past, characterized by managements of the previous superficial and messy Governments, can finally be only a distant memory. In essence, overall, there is a legislative fabric of the measure which consists of only two articles, to which the extension of the state of emergency to 31 December 2018 was added later, during the amending phase of the Special Commission, with the hope that the next measures before Parliament will be envisaged in the budget law to extend the deadline further. That is a hope and we hope it will happen. Nevertheless, my view is that an extra effort by the Government to meet the people and businesses involved in the earthquake could have been made. I am thinking of the reductions in recruitment, the strengthening of special offices, reconstruction and other facilities. Measures that have been transformed into non-binding agendas or postponed, with genetic pre-measures, to not before September. Almost two years after the first earthquake that devastated Central Italy, the regulatory framework for reconstruction is very complex and complex. We just think that 56 orders have been made and a large number of orders from the head of the Civil Protection Department have been made, which is struggling to produce concrete results in terms of reconstruction. The difficulty of starting the reconstruction, on which it has weighed and continues to weigh the excessive complexity of the procedures, requires simplifications that can actually accelerate the reconstruction process. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we, as the Brothers of Italy, will press the Government to show that we are doing better than the previous one, because we can do much better, as another government did, than not far from here, in L'Aquila, it showed that the temporary houses were temporary and not only permanent. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alfonso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that there will be due attention. A thank you goes also to the representative of the government. I do not believe that this is just a facade debate; I want to believe that this debate is an investment of intelligence on the part of everyone to enrich and structure the force of the decree-law that we are about to convert into law, especially to honor the work we have done in the special Commission. This regulatory product has basically posed three problems. The first problem concerns the shift of deadlines forward, starting with the important deadline for emergency management, and I would like to invite colleagues who have spoken and those who will speak to grasp the effectiveness of two phases that enter into the field when there is a disaster emergency. There is the first intervention, which has an emerging character, and then the reconstruction takes place. We are trying to give additional regulatory coverage to the needs of reconstruction, for which there is financial coverage and for which we know that there is a channel for the reconstruction of public works and public utility and a channel for private reconstruction. This text also raises the question of giving normative coverage to what has been defined by all those who have spoken as a problematic issue which has not yet been adequately addressed, namely the small and slight urban divergence which, if not addressed in exhaustive terms, does not allow the process of proceeding of contributions relating to private reconstruction. Therefore, this kind of work in this House and the work done with intellectual honesty in the special committee must not give rise to paper hypocrisy: they must give rise to a regulatory adequacy that then allows administrative adequacy by the local authorities. We know that small discrepancies are not slowing down, they are blocking private reconstruction. It cannot be the ideologically wrong to enter into the matter what prevents us from entering into the substance of a solution at hand: to audition, meet, write articles and discuss even here in and then not to give rise to a product that meets the regulatory requirement means hypocrisy and immorality. Then there is the third question, concerning the recovery of the economic viability of enterprises. We must not rebuild cities of walls that resemble cemeteries; we must rebuild cities characterized by economic and cultural vitality. Isn't L'Aquila's theme dear to Quagliariello? To D'Alfonso or to those who intervened before me, making great confusion. The theme of L'Aquila is that of 330 companies which, on the one hand, have received aid and help and which, on the other hand, now suffer and see a sanctioning, grievous attitude, which calls for recovery and is not a recovery that must start tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, but that is already the procedure of the Revenue Agency with a Commissioner ad acta. That is why it is now that we need a regulatory solution and I appeal to the intellectual honesty of the rapporteur: we must not miss the pace, the timing, the consistency of the solution. We have to do all this, because from this place can come, for example, the solution for the city of L'Aquila about the life of businesses. I also want to highlight the special work done by the special structures of reconstruction. Similarly, as far as the Commissioner's structure is concerned, we cannot now give rise to insufficient regulatory coverage, both in terms of time and human resources. Then - and I conclude - let us take this opportunity. Here it is taking place and there is a dialogical confrontation that must nourish the merit of the work. I hope that this intervention, like those of others, will help the final product that those territories need to start living again. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we are on a new date with an earthquake decree-law, an issue which unfortunately touched and touched on a central section of the Italian population, with the involvement of many people. This time we are doing it in a new way and I take this opportunity to thank our colleague, Stefano Patuanelli, as the leader, for his work as rapporteur for the measure, which we have all very much appreciated, and we have also appreciated the enormous effort he has had to make to carry it out. Work in the Commission has also been particularly important, in a spirit of cooperation which, in principle, brings with it all those people who are waiting for these measures. This is therefore a new fact, an important fact, which concerns a decree-law that was born not between two legislatures, but between two governments, with substantial changes, because the government that we support today is that of change. We have therefore intervened in an appropriate way also in this perspective, that is, trying to really maintain the philosophy of change also in this measure, born in the last days of activity of the previous Government. One important point I would like to stress is that many of the approximately 40 amendments adopted were also proposed by minority forces, but they were adopted unanimously. I repeat this concept, in order to bear witness to the great spirit of cooperation, not only among the forces that are part of the majority at the moment, but also with respect to the proposals made by my fellow Members sitting on the opposition benches. The theme of the earthquake is very much heard by the Movimento 5 Stars and the Government. Just this morning, our Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, Bonisoli, made a visit to the earthquake areas, following what has already been done by the Minister for Education, University and Research Bussetti. I remember that even our Prime Minister Conte, in his first Italian public release, chose to go to those areas, just to testify how sensitive this Government is to these issues. We have dealt with a number of issues and clearly the subject of the earthquake is extremely complex and we who come from those areas know how complex it is on the ground, but also at the regulatory level. Some of the proposals on which my activity has focused in recent days constitute an overall package that, as has been said, focuses essentially on an extension: let's put as an important date that of 31 December 2018. My work and intervention focused in particular on the extension of the suspension of loans, which was due to expire last May, but also on other specific measures, such as the derogation from the criteria for the separate collection of the Municipalities, and other measures, also at the design or professional level. It is clear that the decree-law in question is a complex measure, which brings within itself a series of innovations and attentions to issues that are unfortunately on the agenda. I conclude by addressing one last aspect: over time we have realized that the earthquake emergency has been tackled, unfortunately, in an emerging way, which means that we have not been prepared for this extremely dramatic event, which has gone beyond the possible forecasts. When, however, within a measure such as the one under consideration, two years after the earthquake - but in reality there would not even be a need for an earthquake - we are still talking, for example, about the seismic adjustment of schools or other public offices, this makes us understand that, probably, the road to be taken is still a long one and must be walked in the sign, as I said at the beginning of my intervention, of change. So let's start from here, with the decree-law under consideration, to set a new reasoning, not only on the management of the emergency, but also on a fundamental word, which is all too often said but which, unfortunately, in many cases is not practiced: prevention. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u28	Senator Pazzaglini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u29	Mr President, members of the government, my fellow senators, here I have heard of people who have lost their homes, of people who have lost their jobs, of VAT matches without a future. I have heard of many problems and return to each of them. As mayor of one of the earthquakeed Municipalities and as a citizen of one of the destroyed Municipalities, I believe that no one more than I can want everything and immediately, when it comes to earthquakes. Everything is immediately, however, and it is not possible to know that well. The Decree-Law under consideration, which provides for further urgent measures in favour of the people affected by the earthquake, actually contained only a few fiscal extensions. For this reason, it would not have been possible to put everything necessary. During the hearings, the Special Commission for the examination of urgent acts submitted by the Government was able to know practically all the main issues related to this reconstruction, but it is clear that in the short time available it could not find solutions. I remember that the seismic swarm has been hitting central Italy since 2016. I have heard of the past, but it is not the correct form, because in reality the shocks continue. The seismic swarm that still strikes central Italy is a phenomenon that has no precedent in the recent history of Italy and has few precedents in the millenary history of our nation. We are talking about 4 earthquakes and over 100,000 shocks, of which 9 are magnitudes greater than 5, hence destructive capacity. The consequences are intuitable. In addition to villages completely destroyed and towns razed to the ground, the same natural environment was upset: mountains split into two, landslides have interrupted roads of national interest, rivers have seen their flow increase up to three times the average of the period, because the break of the underground pockets has caused the simultaneous release of that great mass of water has inflated all the rivers of the area. A river that's been missing for decades has been flowing again. In one of the most evocative places in Italy, Castelluccio di Norcia, mud volcanoes were formed on the ground and in the stop mud volcanoes were created. The numbers may perhaps measure what has happened, but nothing can give the dimension of the anguish felt by those who have lost everything, their home and their future. That is why I believe this premise is necessary, because in addition to the consequences that we have clearly seen in many television services, on the natural environment and on the municipalities, there have been consequences for people: physical consequences, with hundreds of wounded and, unfortunately, numerous deaths, but also psychological consequences, not all because of the earthquake. We must not hide that the tragedy that has affected those populations and, above all, the loss of hope to which, unfortunately, many of those people have arrived has led to an exponential increase in the consumption of drugs and, in some cases, also to the extreme ratio of suicide. The question that we should now ask and ask ourselves all of us is: why have people lost hope? If we asked this simple question to any resident of those territories, the answer would always be the same: they promised us that we would not be abandoned and instead the State left us alone. This is certainly the most common answer we would receive, but it is not a true answer, because the firemen have not abandoned anyone, because the Army has not abandoned anyone. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] Civil Protection, the Carabinieri, the State Forestry Corps and the Finance Guard have not abandoned anyone. If the vast majority of people feel that they have been abandoned, it is because politics is lacking. We missed each other. [[Applause from the L-SP Group and Senator Cangini]] There was no one who took the responsibility to decide how to rebuild according to the most important need of those people: to return home quickly and rebuild their future. This is what I would like to highlight today and which, in my opinion, is most important in this reconstruction: people need to be put back to the centre of attention. It's not like that. It was immediately stated that legality would be a priority, it was immediately stated that the timing would be a priority, it was immediately stated that it would be a priority to identify a method of reconstruction. But it was never said that reconstruction would be a priority, which was the necessary element for those people to recover hope. We have never seen rapidity, a fundamental element, even in the management of the emergency: an absurdity. By definition the emergency should be resolved in the imminence of the fact; instead almost two years have passed since the earthquake and many SAEs, several hundred, have not yet been delivered, because nine passages were needed for their realization. Many people have highlighted the considerable, enormous cost of those achievements, but I would like to highlight the fact that they have been carried out in a completely unacceptable time for the management of an emergency. However, these are not the only difficulties encountered, because we also find a similar situation in the management of reconstruction. A few weeks ago the foundation stone was laid for the reconstruction of the school of San Ginesio, rebuilt directly by the commissioner structure. After a few days that reconstruction has also been blocked, because not even the special Commissioner for reconstruction, with this situation, can rebuild. The municipalities, which unfortunately find themselves impelled by a bureaucracy that is almost impossible to overcome, are unable to do so by private individuals, who would like to find satisfaction on their own, cannot even do so by other people, who have tried in some way to speed up the reconstruction, and not even the Commissioner himself: a school rebuilt by the Commissioner was immediately blocked. We therefore come to the total failure of this approach. The main instrument of the reconstruction of the destroyed municipalities, the implementation plans prepared after perimeters of the areas most damaged or with a particular architectural value of the same, after months that were to leave are all stopped at the pole. I, as mayor, will propose to my city council the exit of perimeters next Saturday. What was to be the most important support tool for reconstruction was not only not the opportunity it had to be, but it even became an obstacle. If all this has been faced by the public, then what is the situation for private individuals? Well, it's easily intuitable. The only way to overcome all this is that, at the crossroads we now find ourselves in, our choice is not to continue according to the already defined methods that have led to that picture of despair and despair that we have found so far; we need to take responsibility for making choices. And the first choice is to overcome the problem of discrepancies. However, I do not want to resort to verbal artifices, because in Italy, if one closes a staircase or realizes a villa by the sea, it is always a matter of building abuse; it is therefore necessary to debunk the taboos: if we have to talk about sanatories regarding these discrepancies, we have to take responsibility for doing so, because the reconstruction of the destroyed municipalities will take place by aggregates and a small discrepancy in an aggregate is sufficient to block all the reconstruction. Senator colleagues, we need to unlock practices and, in order to unlock practices, we need to take responsibility for doing the right thing. The right thing is to overcome certain hypocrisies, debunk certain taboos and point out to those people the path to follow. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u30	I invite you to conclude, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u31	Crazy people (L-SP). I'm closing with one final consideration. I want to clear the field from a misunderstanding. The discrepancies in those areas are not and will never be building speculation. The economic value of those buildings is such that one almost never gets to exceed half of their material cost of construction. We are not talking about speculation, we are not talking about an asset advantage, we are not talking about an economic advantage had by those who realized those discrepancies; we are talking about needs met over the years, evidently irregularly, but to which we must remedy, otherwise those that are certified as the most beautiful villages in Italy, those that are orange flags of the Touring Club, Municipalities that fall into National Parks will not be rebuilt. This, in fact, is the reality; we are not in the presence of a total anarchy or a degeneration of the environment caused by man, but we are in places recognized of value throughout Italy and we have the duty, even moral, to rebuild them. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u32	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u33	Mr President, representatives of the Government, fellow senators, say the popular wisdom that is in the moment of need that friends are recognized and I believe that this is true, as I believe it is true that it is at an exceptional time that we recognize the toughness of a state and the quality of a ruling class, which covers, more or less luckily, the functions of government. There is nothing more extraordinary and devastating than an earthquake. Almost two years have passed since the first shock that broke in two Italy and passed in vain: the rubble is still largely turned to the ground, as they were turned to the ground an hour after the earthquake; the mythical little houses, otherwise inadequate to the rigid climates of the Apennines, are still largely to be delivered; the historical centers of the city are still closed; the practices are mostly firm or proceed slowly. So maybe it's good to remember that under those rubble 300 Italians died. It would be appropriate, if there were time, here, today, to remember the names, surnames and stories of each of them. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And the stories of each of the families, of the tens of thousands of families of our countrymen who at this precise moment and for two years now have lived in the condition of displaced people, far from their roots, their homes, their affections, their work and, for the little ones, far from schools. All this is unacceptable, it is a national tragedy, which the nation has understood perfectly right away. There was a wonderful solidarity contest to bring support and help to the affected populations. All the populations affected have given us an extraordinary demonstration of dignity and stoicism: the citizens of Lazio, those of Abruzzo, all the citizens and those of the Marches in a particular way (let me say this, because the Marches have been the most affected region, the most forgotten and, to date, the worst governed from this point of view). The nation has done its duty; the state, however, has not. The state was and is fugitive. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The State has failed to fulfil its social contract, the implicit pact that binds citizens to institutions, whereby citizens give up part of their freedom and, in return, obtain security and protection; that security and protection that have not yet been guaranteed to our citizens affected by the earthquake. This is unacceptable. A State worthy of this name does not abandon its own citizens; a State such as Italy cannot passively assist the inexorable - inexorable, I repeat - depopulation of small municipalities, because small Municipalities are our identity and the backbone of this country. It would be useless now to stand up for the mistakes of the past, the obtuse and ill-fated dismantling of civil protection, constituted by the Berlusconi Government, not by rational choice, but by ideological fury. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The sailor's promises made by Presidents of the Council who are prone to narcissism (I say this by the way: I regret the absence of Senator Matteo Renzi in this House today). Let us think of the future, let us not think of the past, let us try to sew this rift between the nation and the state, because this rift delegitimizes the institutions, ourselves. The state is no longer credible unless it is able to bring relief quickly to the affected populations. Forza Italia has tabled more than 100 amendments in the special Commission, all studied with our local administrators, all tailored to the real needs of citizens. Some have been approved - and this is good - others have been rejected, others have been turned - and this seems a bit of a mockery - into agendas. Undersecretary Laura Castelli has assumed the responsibility of not accepting some fundamental amendments; I say only one, but there would be many, that is, the one that plans to stabilize and extend the contracts for about 700 officials called to support the administrations of the small municipalities in order to carry out the practices. Colleagues, if those contracts are not restored, it is paralysis; the rest are chatter, williness. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We must, therefore, absolutely provide, and - I am speaking to the representatives of the Government - if the change that you have made in your name and of which you have made a flag is not only propaganda, if it is not only rhetoric, but a real push to mark a - hopefully - caesura between the past and the present, in view of a better future for our fellow citizens, well, this change must be operational immediately. A pact must be signed between the institutions, Parliament and the Government, regardless of their political affiliations and their parties, so that this vulnus may be healed, so that this serious wound in the living flesh of the nation may be sewn up. We need political will, we need resources. Forza Italia the political will puts it all; the resources, however, you must put them of the Government of change. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u34	Senator Grimani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, members of the Government, allow me to thank the President of the Republic of Mattarella and the President of the Council of the previous Gentiloni Government. Silveri who, signing this decree-law, have demonstrated for the umpteenth time great attention and sensitivity to the problems of the earthquake. And, again, I would like to thank Mr Paola De Micheli, Commissioner for Reconstruction, for the great work he has done in this phase of discussion and sharing with all the parliamentary groups, as well as the Presidents of the Umbria, Marche, Lazio and Abruzzo regions. Finally, I would like to thank my fellow Senators in the Group for the expertise and attention with which they have followed the work in the Special Commission and then in this House. The measure we are debating contains a package of urgent rules introduced to prevent a series of facilitations for the earthquake-stricken areas of Central and Eastern Europe, and is enriched by the work of the special Commission. It is a decree-law to maintain the previous measures, which must accompany and improve the actions taken. The decision on the extension of the state of emergency for earthquake areas until 31 December 2018 is crucial. The measures aimed at income support, the suspension of time limits for tax payments until 16 January 2019, as well as the suspension of time limits for the fulfilment and payment of social security and welfare contributions until 31 January 2019. It is also important to highlight some improvements in the simplification of procedures - or at least this is the Commission's proposal - the facilitations for immediate implementation interventions, the revision of the threshold of the mandatory SOA for enterprises, the simplification of the procedures of urban compatibility, as well as the safeguard proposal aimed at those who have adopted autonomous solutions with artifacts and structures in the land near the destroyed or damaged property (the famous question of Grandma Peppina). Moreover, the important rules in favour of the municipalities, including the inclusion of the municipalities as implementing actors of the public interventions, the extension of the maturity of the loans contracted with the Deposit and Loan Fund and the simplification for the identification of the sole responsible of the procedure (complex question for the municipal administrations). It should also be stressed that attention is paid to measures to support the income of workers in companies in crisis with more than 400 working units, located in the municipalities affected by the earthquake of 24 August and included in the areas recognised as a complex industrial crisis. This frame of reference allows us an overall reflection on the state of the art. The balance of seismic events of 2016-2017 was very heavy in terms of human lives and the economy of the territory, with an approximate estimate of the damage and costs caused by the earthquake that amounts to over 23.5 billion euros. Since August 2016, EUR 13.16 billion have been allocated for the earthquake, of which EUR 6 billion have been dedicated to reconstruction, a figure never allocated for reconstruction. In this decade the economic earthquake caused by the global and European crisis has put Italy to the test. The recovery began thanks to the solidity of the family fabric and the ability to resist and re-launch many businesses. We need far-sightedness in our choices, we need to consolidate the many structural reforms we have already made, we need to continue on the path we have set out to help the production system successfully face the great challenges of the contemporary world economy. The physical earthquake has hit our country hard, especially our territories of the Central Apennines, as unfortunately other parts of Italy in the past. Therefore, there is also a need for foresight and foresight in the choices made in this area. With the measure that we are debating today, we want to make these choices sound because we believe that they must be consolidated and, where useful, perfected. The territories affected by the earthquake are, by common judgment, among those most endowed with civicism and social capital. According to many experts, this has contributed to their prosperity through the development of the local systems of small businesses and now must and can help their intelligent evolution in the face of the changes taking place. In conclusion, reconstruction is painful, it is an urgent necessity of today and it is also an open challenge for the future further. The earthquake is a tragedy, but it is not a condemnation of decline and trying to work together on this objective, without propaganda and instrumental polemics, would be the best way to give our country the trust and strength it deserves. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u36	Senator Vono is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u37	Mr President, Senators, Senators, Representatives of the Government, the measure discussed today, aimed at families and businesses in the territories affected by the earthquakes of 2016, is aimed at an extension of tax obligations to allow the introduction of more complex structural measures aimed at the reconstruction of damaged centres and the resumption of those economic and social activities that give rise to the duty to contribute fiscally to the country's general economy. It is clear that to the facilitated suspension of the terms the previous Government has not followed with the necessary actions able to literally put the places and the people involved in the seismic events back on track. It is up to us, then - starting from the hypothesis that the earthquake did not happen two years ago but yesterday, as nothing concrete has yet been done - to provide for the needs of these populations, starting from actions that are not only preparatory to reconstruction but even to security interventions. Allow me to make a brief comment on the issues that are inflaming the debate between Italy and the Member States of the European Union, but above all among the same political forces as our country, by majority and opposition. If it is true, as it is true, that the Italian people boast, and are proud of it, precisely according to our Constitutional Charter, a tradition of solidarity with any individual and situation of difficulty, even more attention, solidarity, concern and commitment went and must be turned towards our fellow countrymen victims of seismic events not only in Abruzzo, Lazio, Umbria and Marche who for years have been living in precarious conditions, subject - I dare say - a condition of subalternity to the needs of the business system on so-called economic immigration. These populations, from the chronological moment of the event to now, continue to live and remain in a state of immediate post earthquake. Today, 26 June 2018, in addition to the need to extend and supplement the deadlines relating to tax and tax obligations, thanks to the amendments inserted, the state of emergency has been extended with quantification of the related financial costs, the creation of areas equipped for tourist purposes and the concession of soft financing for private reconstruction with interventions of adaptation to the fire and sanitation regulations as well as for the elimination of architectural barriers. There are also competitive custody procedures for a faster reconstruction of the enormous ecclesiastical cultural heritage still unattainable, compensation of public land occupation, administrative simplification. As has been apparent during the various hearings in the Special Commission, the contraction in economic activity has led, not only in the areas of the so-called crater, to a significant reduction in gross domestic product, weakening the already fragile local economic system, with a clear deterioration in the quality of life. Exactly a week ago, in this very House, we gave the green light to the DEF 2018 and in the policy framework we will necessarily have to intervene with stronger, more incisive, coherent and concrete policy choices that will enable us to keep the existing production processes in these areas active in order to relaunch them in terms of competitiveness and development. In the face of emergencies, the State must intervene in all its articulations, guaranteeing efficiency and effectiveness of solutions and while appreciating the irreplaceable value of the many volunteers, I believe it is necessary a numerical and instrumental reinforcement of our Forces of the order and above all of the Firefighters' Corps, affected for more years, now, by considerable deficiencies of staff and strong economic penalties that a socially evolved civil country cannot and must not allow. It also takes particular note of the issue of local authorities, after the disaster caused by those who thought to reform the local administrations, distorting their role, cutting the funds and leaving their competences unchanged. I refer, in particular, to the Delrio reform, that is to say to the wicked imposition of a reform monca that has made the Provinces, essential bodies to reduce the distance between the State and the territories, unable to fulfil their functions, but maintaining a mastodontic structure, not to mention the dispossession of the right of political administrative choice, which we citizens expressed through the democratic vote, allowing the Province body to become a center of placement for politicians friends and not friends of the citizens. Today the most deleterious consequences have in terms of public construction, infrastructure, roads and more and more the territories are being depleted, completely isolating themselves, as a result of the carelessness allowed by the ripple of responsibility between bodies that until now governments have tolerated. We can no longer allow some administrators, some technicians and some "takers" of contracts, boasting of certain positions, to muddle the good work of the world of politics, of entrepreneurship, of professional orders, with behaviors not only ethically to be condemned but legally criminal. From this point of view, this measure must be understood as the stepping stone of a real strategic planning and the parliamentary majority that supports the current government will intervene with the planning measures to simplify also the actions of restructuring, allowing citizens and enterprises to resume with serenity their daily activities for an effective improvement of the quality and dignity of life. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u38	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u39	Mr President, in the first few weeks of the 18th legislature, Decree-Law No 55 of 2018 was addressed exclusively in the special Commission, with particular attention - almost exclusive attention - to the economic-tributary aspects, which certainly do not exhaust the serious problems affecting the populations affected by the earthquake. An alternative solution would not have been possible, because the other Commissions did not exist, but this meant that the document only grasped this dimension of the problems and did so in accordance with three very precise directives: first of all, the suspension of tax and contribution deadlines through the repeated extensions, therefore the possibility of subsidised financing assisted for the payment of the suspended taxes and, thirdly, this sort of pursuit of the successive extensions, in which the State offers itself to guarantee the debt, but neither intervenes to reduce this debt, nor does it carry out a positive recovery action in relation to the wounds that the earthquake has produced. Moreover, the most ridiculous thing is that the first extension, which began on the day of the earthquake, should have ended six months later. Obviously the Italian timing and experience of all the other earthquakes already demonstrated that fixing terms in this way represents a fried mixture between naivety and incompetence. As a matter of fact, after the seismic events of 24 August 2016, which affected Abruzzo, Lazio, Marche and Umbria, the initial deadline for the suspension of taxes passed from 16 December 2016 to 30 November 2017, after 31 December 2017 and then further to 31 May 2018 and today, with regard to the autonomous institutes for popular houses located in the territories affected by the earthquake, arrives to the next 30 October. We are faced with a race that shifts the time limits for the payment of taxes, but does not guarantee the activation of production policies that, moreover, allow the same payments to be made. We have a vision that, despite everything, puts fiscal policy at the heart of the entire political action of the Government. This is contrary to the systematic promise in electoral campaigns, made in different ways and in different tones, but by all parties. The first to express the failure of these promises are precisely the people affected by the earthquake for whom the fiscal pressure remains the only way through which their problems are read. We can say, in fact, that while the fiscal pressure, always too heavy for all Italians, still granted a minimum of purely virtual breath to the earthquake zones, the measures, which should have facilitated the reconstruction of houses and structures (including schools and public offices) and the resumption of work activities (starting from those productive, but with particular attention also to the area of social and health services), showed a slowdown at the limits of inertia. The roads are visibly still occupied by rubble and debris. The circulation is strongly limited in terms of both access and travelable speed. The houses are inaccessible and for any need it is necessary to move in the neighboring municipalities not affected by the earthquake, increasing the inequality that there is between those who have suffered from this wound and those who fortunately have been exempt from it. In other words, if the taxes due are nothing more than the price paid to obtain services from the State, here at zero level services the taxes would not even have to pay them. The problems are addressed from the perspective of a creditor State, which in a pseudo-magnanimous way accepts to wait, but does not assume concrete and timely responsibilities to start the phase of reconstruction. Therefore, two years after the earthquake, life still seems frozen in those areas where, moreover, there is a bureaucracy that makes it absolutely problematic to proceed, even with own resources, to the reconstruction and relaunch of commercial and entrepreneurial activities. The return home for the elderly population, dazed by displacements that are equivalent to eradications of which they pay a high price even in terms of health with a significant increase in psychophysical pathologies, is one of the three prevailing demands. Then there is the social network for the youngest, starting with school, but also including all the places of encounter and socialization; the work for young and old, forced to leave their territories in order to give life to an internal migration indispensable to take charge of their families. To this must be added the complexity of making use of social and health services under adequate conditions. The presence here today, as we discuss this decree-law, cannot be only of the MEF because it will not only be this Ministry to solve these problems. We would have liked to have here the Minister of Education, the Minister of the Family, the Minister of Cultural Heritage, the Minister of Labour. The overall perception of the problems of the populations has been lacking. That is why it is clear that we cannot vote in favour of this decree-law. We will probably abstain, but the truth is that the temptation to cast a negative vote is far greater. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u40	Senator Rufa is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is with immense emotion that I am speaking today in this House with the promise to do good only for the Italian people. In 2009, in L'Aquila and Abruzzo: houses, buildings, police station, prefecture, hospital, student house; the city of Onna completely razed to the ground, more than a thousand wounded, about 65,000 displaced, 309 victims. In Emilia Romagna in 2012; in 2013 in Campania. In 2016, on August 24, 3,36 locals in Lazio: Amatrice, Accumoli, the neighbouring Arquata del Tronto; in 4 days more than 3,000 seismic replicas and 299 victims. In Marche on 26 October and 30 October in Umbria, in Norcia, 7.40 am: the most intense earthquake of the 21st century, about 30,000 displaced between Marche and Umbria. In 2017, in Campania, two victims. These are data and dates that have marked our last years and that also mark our last days, and they test our fears because of the uninterrupted seismic activity that affects the alpine-Apennine tectonic belt. Italy is always on the alert and politics must always be ready and compact. We must always be aware and mindful of such events, conscious and unceasing to resolve them as soon as possible. We are forced to save smiles and hopes. Obviously, therefore, as a League, we are in favour of the Decree-Law of 29 May 2018, No. 55, with the necessary changes made in a hurry, to be converted into law. We also thank the European Parliament, which has allocated EUR 1.2 billion from the European Solidarity Fund for the 140 municipalities of the four regions affected by the earthquake. The use of resources, the choice of operations to be carried out and the execution of the verification and control activities were and are the responsibility of the Italian State, and I want to believe that the hands that touched this money were responsible hands and respectful of the pain of the earthquake victims. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have always believed that, especially in this House, every day is the day, and today is the day to apologize for the delays, for the unfulfilled promises, for the twisted bureaucracy and for the harshness of the policy itself, sometimes. It is also the day to give honor to a suffering people; a hug, therefore, that arrives to the children of the earthquake victims, blameless to live still in emergency homes and grow still without certainties. But be assured that, for the League, their children are our children; for the League, first the earthquake victims; for the League, first the Italians. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u42	Senator De Siano is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u43	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the fourth decree-law concerning the earthquake that occurred in August 2016 in some central regions of our country (Abruzzo, Lazio, Marche and Umbria). 18.15 p.m. (De Siano followed). It is a decree-law which, as my colleagues have pointed out, deals mainly with extensions of tax measures and partially regulates the problem of the removal of rubble. But my colleagues have already mentioned this and I do not want to repeat what has already been said. I would therefore like, in these few minutes that I have available, to highlight in this House a difference of treatment in our country compared to natural magnets that unfortunately occur. I am referring to the event that, exactly one year later, on 21 August 2017, took place on the island of Ischia and struck some municipalities on this island. Well, I can say without fear of being denied that previous governments have treated as marginal the seismic event that occurred on the island of Ischia, as a series event B compared to the main one that unfortunately took place the previous year [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] For this reason I briefly synthesize the damages that have reported the municipalities of Casamicciola Terme, Lacco Ameno and Forio on 21 August 2017 and that to date have found absolutely no answer: the displaced people are 3,300; the requests for contribution for autonomous accommodation are 1,200 (these are the data to date); the damaged housing units are 1,900; the people still housed in the hotel until today there are 323; seven schools and seven churches closed to today; the inaccessible accommodation facilities (hotels, bed and breakfasts, restaurants), but also commercial activities and professional studies are 65; the jobs that have been lost because of the event in a direct way are 600, the decrease of the tourist presences last year, after a few hours from the event, has been of beyond 60-65 percent and to date, for the season 2018, it is estimated on the island of Ischia (totally and not only on the three municipalities hit by the earthquake) a decrease of the tourist presences that reach 30 percent. It's official data. On the part of the previous Government there was no serious consideration of an important territory of the Campania Region. There was absolutely no appointment of the commissioner for reconstruction; on the island of Ischia we are still in an emergency; there is absolutely no glimpse of a path of light that can get out of the tunnel those populations that unfortunately last August 21 had damaged irreparablely and lost their home. In these days and in these weeks, knowing that the decree-law now under discussion would have come before the Assembly, the Group of Forza Italia has worked intensively, drawing up serious proposals aimed, on the one hand, at making the damaged municipalities of the island of Ischia equivalent to the other municipalities of central Italy, establishing also for the first a series of rules that facilitate and extend certain taxes, on the other hand, to create the right conditions to give a concrete answer to the problem of reconstruction in a particularly complex territory such as that of the island of Ischia, in which there is the bond of landscape within the meaning of the law 29 June 1939, n. 1497. We have worked from a technical point of view and have proposed a number of amendments which provide answers and solutions to these issues. Many of the approximately 2,000 houses damaged in an irreparable way were built twenty years ago; on them depends application of sanatoria building with respect to the laws of the State and have not yet been granted in sanatoria. This is an issue which this Parliament and this Government must really consider if, as they say, they want to represent discontinuity with the past. In the Commission, as the President said earlier in his speech, we worked without demagogy with all the Groups, establishing that this package of amendments would be withdrawn in order to ensure that the Government and the offices of the Ministries had more time to examine it thoroughly and to be able to propose everything to the House in order to give concrete answers to these communities still suffer. We hope, as the Forza Italia Group, that the parties, the majority and the Government will be able to respect the commitments, can analyse and give certain answers to those who, as I said before, are the needs of communities that live a moment of extreme difficulty. We, as a political movement, when we had the responsibility to lead the country, have shown that normal problems can and must be given normal answers but that, compared to extraordinary events, there is a need for extraordinary answers. President Berlusconi's government did so, as was said earlier, with the L'Aquila earthquake. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Well, I only steal another thirty seconds of your attention to say that there is also another earthquake that could irreparablely fall on the entire Campania Region. Many will get hives when I express this concept. I am talking about the applicability of the famous third building pardon, the famous law n. 326 of 2003. A law of the State that applies throughout the national territory except in Campania. I invite the representatives of the government, I invite the parties that form this majority of government, I call in particular the League, which with us shared the electoral program with which we presented ourselves in the elections of 4 March, to be discontinuous with the governments of the past, also with respect to the governments of the center-right who have not previously been able to give a complete answer to this problem. Otherwise, Campania could soon be overwhelmed by a new earthquake. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u44	She is registered to speak Senator Di Girolamo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, we are about to convert a decree-law to help the people affected by the earthquakes that have affected our peninsula over the last decade. This is an urgent act which mainly provides for extensions to upcoming deadlines, which cannot be completed before the state of emergency is exceeded. Centro Italia is still today subject to landslides, which began nine years ago, on that night of April 6 that marked the economic and social destruction of an entire territory, that of L'Aquila and neighboring municipalities. It is true that the reconstruction has started, but just as true is that it proceeds in slow steps, so slow that it makes those citizens feel lonely and abandoned to their pain, pain that represents a great wound for the whole of Italy; pain for the loss of a part of their lived; pain for the loss of property not yet returned to them; open wounds and that will never be compensated for the loss of the most precious good, that of the affection of their loved ones who have failed under a pile of rubble. More than three hundred victims and eighty thousand displaced persons also had with the collapse of public facilities, such as the student's home and parts of the hospital and university. I feel obliged to mention here the destruction of the dreams of as many as 2,914 people in Irpinia, far away, but not too much, 1980. The most devastating earthquake that led for the first time to the introduction of urgent interventions and from whose experience was born the imposing machine of civil protection that Italy is now equipped. Twenty-seven were the victims of the earthquake in Emilia-Romagna while 299 in the most recent, which affected the Marche, Umbria, Lazio and Abruzzo regions. Whenever a tragic seismic event occurs, there is a worrying unpreparedness of the country, despite the fact that the criticalities related to the areas at greatest risk have long been known. Today we inherit a dramatic condition of the educational building heritage that, from the data in our possession and that will be integrated next 31 August, 80% is not adequate to the current seismic regulations. Why are we dealing with such a situation today? Why do our children continue to attend insecure schools exposing their lives to serious risks, as happened in San Giuliano di Puglia? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The reconstruction is linked to the pole: it is useless to deny it. There are still many bureaucratic problems to be resolved in order to speed up the reconstruction process, while the populations concerned continue to pour into conditions of economic difficulty and mistrust towards the institutions. Something has been done, yes, but there is still a lot to do and we need to understand where it is essential to intervene in order to be truly decisive, avoid waste and direct public money towards security and prevention, in order to make the inhabitants of these places their dignity. Despite the excellent work carried out by the rapporteur, Mr Patuanelli, and by the special Commission, which was assigned the urgent draft law No 435, it was unfortunately impossible to tackle all the problems carefully and to propose amendments to the decree-law, in order to improve the current conditions in which the citizens are earthquake victims. The decision taken by the Extraordinary Commissioner to close down the territorial offices for reconstruction - for example - will, in my opinion, lead to an extension of the time frame in the education of practices, removing an important service of territorial proximity from all actors involved in reconstruction. I hope that the work done in the special Commission will receive the approval of all of you, ladies and gentlemen, with the knowledge that our work does not end here: it will be necessary to return shortly to the thorny issue with proposals aimed at removing those blocks too often of a bureaucratic and political nature. Italy is a highly seismic country because of its position along the margin between two moving tectonic plates, the Eurasian one and the African one. The time has come to act on prevention and not on the emergency, as has always been done so far. It is established that the interventions made without a punctual programming cost enormous figures and have not avoided tragedies that otherwise, with the preventive intervention on the notes critical of our territory, would have been avoided. We must enter into the perspective that we find ourselves yes, in a post-sysm situation, but the reality of the facts is that we are all called upon to evaluate and resolve the alarm situation under the illuminating lighthouse of prevention. This is the Government of Change and we will change the way we deal with the problem and make policy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u46	Senator Marsilio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the first fact that we have to stress in this debate on the decree-law on the earthquake refers in the meantime to the substantial differences that have occurred in the way of dealing with emergencies and tragedies in our country, which I want to point out inevitably. In fact, when in 2009 there was one of the most devastating earthquakes that history remembers, that struck a capital, a great city - it had never happened before, because normally earthquakes occurred in the provinces and in the mountainous areas and almost never invested an important city and especially of that size and never a capital city of Region, with the coordination centers, the prefecture and the courts put completely on their knees - in a situation absolutely unpublished the Government of the time intervened in a very effective and operational way, despite the controversy of those who went to those places to shoot instrumental films, telling Italy the opposite of what was really happening. Well, within a few months - between six and nine - the majority of the people who had been displaced from their homes have returned not to dilapidated houses or that had to be built, waiting and fighting with the administrations that went naturally and bureaucratically to contest the abuses (see the story of Grandma Peppina that we are solving today), but inside real houses. Before the winter came, before the snow fell, the people came into the real home, who still stand there and form new neighborhoods and this did not happen only in the big center. In Villa Sant'Angelo, one of the small municipalities of the crater, wooden houses built with the generosity of the Province of Trento only one or two remain inhabited by families that had been displaced; meanwhile they are all returning to their houses, which are rebuilding. Today, that building heritage is not a problem for the administration and the municipality, but rather a resource. Those houses were in fact inhabited by young people and new families and therefore a small village of 300 or 400 inhabitants, which was depopulating, like many internal areas of our nation, has returned to have a population growth and with the income of the rent, the locations of those houses, today keeps the IMU, the TASI and the TARI to the minimum possible, thus facilitating the lives of the citizens. Today we have before us what happens when another government has faced the earthquakes that have occurred in recent years. The fact that we are here, in this House, voting on extensions of deadlines, or extending the existence of the state of emergency, already indicates the failure of that Government and the method of managing the emergency and the extraordinary events. When the State intervenes on such a matter and establishes a reasonable time within which answers must be given - then at that time measures the suspension of payments, the state of emergency for the most accelerated and extraordinary procedures and so on - and then regularly approaches that deadline and realizes that everything is still dramatically firm, so we need to return to Parliament and make extensions, of six months in six months, we end up leaving citizens always in precariousness and apprehension, and I recall that this last extension has also arrived late. While President Gentiloni Silveri remembered only on May 29th to issue a decree-law to approve the extension, two or three days before some state administrations, such as the prison police, began to demand in pay envelope, operating the deductions, the return of the IRPEF to their employees who, as earthquake-stricken citizens, had benefited from its suspension. This already shows well what differences we are talking about. If a government is forced to move the deadlines, this is precisely the result of a failure, which is also due to a perverse basic choice, which I think needs to be highlighted. I raise a problem for the whole of Parliament: civil protection has been dismantled as a body to deal with emergencies, giving rise to a specious controversy, which I do not want to say has not been founded in some respects. It is also true, however, that there has been an abuse of the use of the Civil Protection instrument to make it deal with issues that may not have been appropriate to subtract from ordinary administration. However, it would have been necessary to solve the problem by not dismantling the Civil Protection, but if anything by stopping entrusting it operations for events that did not fall within the emergency and extraordinary. But when an earthquake occurs and civil protection with its network of associations is the first to intervene and to deal with coordination, it is wrong to take away the power to do this, to derogate, to compensate and help the mayors. It must not be expropriated of its powers, as someone said years ago, by making a pretentious and all political polemic, feeding an incredible "slut," which led precisely as a result to its dismantling and replacement by commissioner structures, which are unable to act and have demonstrated it, beyond the people involved, all dignified and certainly worthy of our personal esteem, from Errani to De Micheli. We are not discussing the people who have played the role of Commissioner, but we are discussing the Commissioner himself, in the way in which he was thought, in the poor and wrong operational structures that have been made available to him, in the way in which the decision-making process between four regions has been fragmented, with Commissioners who have been related to four different offices, Region by Region. And this happened because we had to kill the Civil Protection and dismantle a good job, a good example of administration, capable of facing the emergency; a system that envied the whole world and compared to which we have instead made a disaster, yielding to logic and presumptuous polemics. And these controversy has followed another equally pretentious one: in order to dismantle civil protection we have culturally returned to the obsession of the procedure, with the consequence that we do not take a step unless we first take many opinions and do not respect biblical deadlines. It is also for this reason that we no longer reconstruct ourselves, because we have made the procedure a Moloch and we are not able to take responsibility. At the same time, however, we reject the amendments with which, since it is always necessary to ask the opinion of the DAC and to multiply the requests, we propose to bring the DAC itself to the territories and to make a decentralised structure, in order to avoid the lengthy procedures. Several issues have been addressed and not resolved, but without adding a penny, because the only measures for which coverage has been found are those which already existed. I am thinking of the funds from the special accounts of the Special Commissioner. When the municipalities were given the opportunity to continue to derogate from treatment and allowances, they were told: you pay them for them. If you read well, this is written in the opinions also made by the Budget Commission. Mr President, I would like to conclude my speech with a particular focus on the issue of the return by the companies of the crater of L'Aquila of the money that the European Union has requested, considering that the contributions that the State had paid were State aid, with a wrong time frame. In fact, it was not recognised that the time frame should start from the date on which the measure was published in the Official Journal, i.e. in November 2011, with the de minimis at 500,000 and not 200,000 euros. At the moment we have an open procedure, with a Commissioner from the Revenue Agency who will of course make a mustache of the amendment extending by two months. Indeed, since the amendment is not a law, the procedure continues in the meantime. And let alone mustache will make agendas that we have been invited to submit and sign in exchange for the withdrawal of amendments. I want to say one thing to my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars who, for five years, have made a hard and heavy opposition to the Government and of whom I remember screaming and screaming when they were asked to turn an amendment into an agenda, which is not denied to anyone. Today, however, the agenda is a huge achievement for this House. I want to hope that there will be the courage to move forward. Tomorrow morning, the Government will have to give an opinion in the Commission on the economic coverage of the measure under consideration. I hope that the measure will come back from the House of Deputies well written and with inside also the measures that are needed for L'Aquila. This element is absolutely direct and discriminating for us and will give the meaning and measure of the action of which the new Government will be able. It would indeed be paradoxical, if not comical, to leave with the remaining spears against the European Union and its distortions, and then stop at the issue of earthquake refunds, which is an issue on which the whole Parliament is ready to support the Government. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u48	I would like to inform you that an amendment has been tabled by the rapporteur, which will be sent immediately to the Groups. Any sub-amendments may be submitted by 8 p.m. this evening, so that the Budget Committee can examine them from tomorrow morning's sitting. Senator Astorre is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure under consideration, adopted by the previous Commission, dealt with the most pressing issues, intervening - on the one hand - on the suspensive regime, with the extension of the duration of the extensions for the most important and onerous administrative obligations for citizens, businesses and municipalities involved, and - on the other hand - on administrative simplification, aimed at speeding up the process of reconstruction of housing and infrastructure. I mean that one cannot fail to appreciate the closeness, shown with the visit of the President of the Count Council, last June 11, to some municipalities affected by the earthquake, such as Amatrice, Accumoli and Arquata del Tronto. However, the vagueness and generality with which this Government has approached the general Dharma of seismic events, both in the course of the programmatic declarations, in which only a very brief mention has been made of the earthquake (only to announce an imminent visit of the Government), and in the so-called government contract, leave on the ground strong concerns. I would have preferred, we would have liked the government to have come to this House, in the course of confidence, and to decline in detail the initiatives and measures it intends to take, with the speed and urgency that such a tragedy requires. It should not be forgotten that the measure we are about to fire bears the signature of the previous Government. Remembering this aspect is important, not so much to claim its paternity, but to note, with great concern, the absence of political attention towards one of the most pressing priorities of our country. We do not know how this Government and its majority intend to relaunch, with even greater impetus, the factory of those territories, namely the agri-food system, the system of parks, the environmental system, the production system linked to the land and the environment. We do not know what is the basic inspiration that will animate the process of reconstruction of the human and relational fabric of those communities, characterized by an extraordinary wealth of history and cultural excellence. What are, what will be the interventions that are intended to be adopted, in a structural and non-emergency way, in order to prevent that process of dispersion and demographic fragility that unfortunately unite many internal areas of our Italian regions? This is a process which, although not attributable to this or to the previous Government, cannot fail to find its legitimate place within the political programme of a newly installed Government. On the contrary, it would have been much appreciated, especially by the populations still traumatized by those terrible events, if a newborn Government had indicated a course, a strategy to try to slow down, to hold back, to reverse that process of demographic impoverishment. Well, we do not know all this, because, beyond some propaganda announcement that can be good for social media, but certainly not for the concrete life of the people who suffer, this Government and this majority have not yet clearly and decisively expressed their political and programmatic intentions on the subject. The plague of the earthquake, which unfortunately with excessive frequency reminds us how fragile and unstable our territory is and how high its exposure to seismic risk, as well as the risks of hydrogeological failure, landslides and floods, is flanked by a social phenomenon made up of unfair and dishonest behaviors and fraudulent actions, which, taking advantage of emergency situations and moral abatement, tries to obtain undoubted economic benefits, and not only. What emerged a few days ago from a survey of the Guardia di Finanza in Camerino is disturbing: in a note of the Guardia di Finanza there are 120 cases, for a total of 500,000 euros, while the seizures already carried out are equal to 120,000 euros. And this is not new: in the past, in such situations, the same facts have occurred. It is true that everything remains to be demonstrated and that the presumption of innocence is always valid for all. But from those who have the responsibility to govern the country we expected at least a word of denunciation of a misconception that, lucrating on the pain of entire communities, subtracts resources that would be extremely needed by those who, due to a dramatic event, have lost everything: the family members and the fruits of the sacrifices of a life. One word was enough to say that Italy is another, that Italy is the country of solidarity, mutual help, cooperation and co-existence door-to-door. Italy is the country of the villages, just like those that have been affected by those earthquakes, born and raised with adjacent houses, that depend on each other, in a solidarity way, because the wall of the one and the wall of the other almost speak. It was enough to say a word in that sense, but nothing. Perhaps you are distracted by other events or perhaps say that Italy is not the country of smart people and opportunists does not grow in polls and is not useful electorally. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u50	He's enlisted to speak Senator Briziarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Patuanelli, and colleagues from the League and the 5 Star Movement, with whom we have literally worked day and night to bring to this House an act which was not limited to being approved identical to that issued by the previous Government, but which met the concrete needs of the communities affected by seismic events. This was the first choice we had in front of us. We could consider this the last decree-law of the Gentiloni Government Silver or transform it, changing it, into the first decree-law of the Count Government. We knew what the problems would be, dictated by the situation of a newly installed government, by the limited time and limited resources available. We knew it would not be a perfect act, but we also knew it would be a better act. Faced with this, our choice was an obligatory one, because the Government of change is of change if it is able to give, always and in any case, the answers that it can provide, in the given conditions. And that is the choice we wanted to make. I turn to those who have been ironic about the contract, to those who have been ironic about the greeting and concluding thoughts of the President of the Count Council at the end of his speech in this House, which reminded the people affected by the earthquake. I turn to those who have ironized the visit to the areas affected by the earthquake and especially to the Senators Astorre and D'Alfonso, who seem to have arrived here today from Mars. I turn to Senator President D'Alfonso, because he is doubly shameless when he speaks of hypocrisy, immorality and appeals to intellectual honesty. With what courage can we speak of intellectual honesty when we ask a government that has been in office for less than two months and we are representatives of a party that has supported an Executive that in almost two years has not given answers to the people affected by the earthquake? [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] He's obviously in good company. We share the concern of the PD senators and their press release; we also believe that we cannot go to the earthquake zones to make the runways. The problem is that it's what they've been doing for months, leaving us with the problems to solve. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] But I'll be back on this soon. I must say that Senator Grimani was certainly more intellectually honest. But maybe D'Alfonso and Grimani didn't talk. Maybe D'Alfonso was in Abruzzo to be president. The list of improvements made, with more than 40 amendments adopted in the special Commission, did so, in addition to having done so at the outset, with a great deal of detail, Mr Rivolta. Maybe next time you should feel to avoid unpleasant situations, to add nothing else. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] The picture that emerged from the hearings that we wanted to carry out, despite the tight times, calling everyone, from the Regions to the municipalities, from the professional associations to the professionals, passing through the committees of the citizens, is bleak. And it is not so much and not only because of the situation that has been described to us, but because everyone, from the first to the last of the audit subjects, reiterated that what they were communicating had already told and written for months without receiving any response. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] We have been given a picture of measures on measures: as has been mentioned, 35 police orders, civil protection orders, innumerable circulars. Yet, there was never the will to stop and say: Let's see how things are, let's compare, solve problems, fill gaps, correct mistakes. There was the presumption of having the truth in your pocket and of moving forward by denying the concrete problems that people lived in the earthquake zones every day. Well, it will be little that has been added to the special Commission at the moment, and it will be confirmed here in this House. It is perhaps little for those who do not live the situations that Mr Pazzaglini reminded us before. For the people involved, however, it is not small: that's all. Knowing that one's practice, which lay among the hanging condones, can finally go on; that the reconstruction of one's life, as well as of one's own home, can take off, is so much for those people. For those 1,300 families, who live in situations similar to those of Grandma Peppina, finally having the problem solved is not much: that's all. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] And we're talking about people who have had an experience that I don't think has equals as much as it can be terrible. We could then go back to the other amendments that have been adopted, and I quote only one in order to give a measure of how superficial the overall attention given by the PD and previous governments to reconstruction has been. Is it possible that no one thought that an earthquaked municipality, with 90% of the buildings destroyed, should be exempted from penalties for failing to achieve the goal of separate collection? After months we were ashamed of citizens who had to pay, with the TARI, the penalty for not achieving the separate collection when, in addition to the dumpster, he lacked the house. Not even this has been able to do PD in twenty months. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] We did it in less than 20 days. It has been criticized - I said before - the catwalk, the visit of Prime Minister Conte to the areas affected by the earthquake and probably will also be that of the Minister of Cultural Heritage that was there today - as my colleague Lucidi recalled - together with the Undersecretary inside. We, however, visit the areas affected by the earthquake normally the day after solving the problems, because it is yesterday's signature, by the Minister of the Interior, of the act that unlocks 9,7 million euros of extraordinary arrears of the firefighters. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] I have with me the press releases of the union of the fire department of Emilia, Campania and the national one, that tell us that for months they have been waiting extraordinary - moreover from hunger - and that the Government has not yet liquidated him. It is not okay to embrace the firefighters - as Prime Minister Renzi immediately did, and I am sorry it is not now in the Chamber - or to say - as he did a few months ago Gentiloni Silveri at the inauguration of the 79th course of the firefighters - that they are a resource and then not find the time to sign a piece of paper so that those same Firefighters can see what little is recognized as extraordinary in a pay envelope, to pay at least partially for the absence from home and the risks faced. Surely they have paid more for the hugs of the populations and the proximity of many people. In conclusion, my colleague Pazzaglini recalled the deportation - so to speak - of the populations who lived in the hotels for months (they had to stay there a few weeks). I had the good fortune - and I say the good fortune - to live in the Municipality of Passignano sul Trasimeno which welcomed dozens of displaced of the earthquake. With them we shared the feasts of our children; we shared the mass in the parish; we shared the meetings. Well, we have been able to do this because we are a welcoming people. I would add, however, that associationism, volunteering and the average Italian cannot continue to compensate for the shortcomings of a state. We cannot prevent Italy from experiencing another earthquake, as it has been for millennia. However, we can prevent the next earthquake - hopefully as late as possible - from being mismanaged as the earthquake under consideration has been managed. We have the opportunity to do this and with the decree-law, as amended in this House, we lay the foundations, which will not be lost from here at the passages of the budget law, in order to allow Italy to manage emergencies better than it has done so far. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u52	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, the decree-law we are debating today - let me say this - is particularly touching on me as an Abruzzo before I am a Senator of the Republic. The earthquake that shocked my Region and central Italy was in fact - needless to say - devastating, also in view of the fact that it arrived in a region already terribly affected by the earthquake of 2009. In addition to this, the mountainous area that characterizes Abruzzo, combined with the bad weather of last winter, has helped to worsen an already extremely precarious situation. How not to remember, then, the tragedy known to all that hit Rigopiano, with an avalanche because of which 29 people lost their lives. In the face of all this, special attention would have been expected from the previous government towards the affected populations. Instead, it pains me to stress that the management of the earthquake has been confusing, chaotic and at times unreasonable. In tragic situations such as these, it is undeniable that the political polemic must be put aside at first and that governments must deal with the emergency, and so it has been done. We have not at all made controversy but, at a later moment, it is equally true that the huge gap between the management of the seismic event by the Berlusconi government of 2009 has appeared clearly compared to the inadequate and subsequent one of the Silveri Gentiloni Government. Coming to the decree-law under consideration, you will notice that the payment of taxes - for example - has only been suspended. On the contrary, the Berlusconi Government had made a very significant reduction in the tax contribution due to the people affected by the earthquake. Not only that: the decree-law in question provides for a installment of the total due not sufficiently diluted over time. In this respect, I have tabled an amendment, as the first signatory, which echoed exactly the measures taken by the Berlusconi Government at the 2009 earthquake in L'Aquila. I basically requested that the IRPEF contribution be reduced by 60% and that the instalments be increased from 60 to 120: the same treatment that the eagles had in 2009. Well, this amendment has been rejected by the government in office whose members, in the election campaign, have strongly criticized the management of the earthquake by the Government Gentiloni Silveri and have done so today, here in the House. Yet, when it came time to intervene in the concrete to bring relief to a exhausted population, to people who have lost everything, they behaved exactly like those who had criticized so much. Evidently in this country there are series A earthquakes, those that were treated by Berlusconi in 2009, and series B earthquakes, those of the earthquake of 2016-2017, mistreated by the previous government and the current one. I am curious to understand at this point what will happen to the other amendments tabled. There are Municipalities such as Catignano, Civitella Casanova, Penne, Penna Sant'Andrea and Basciano in Abruzzo, unreasonably excluded from the crater; Municipalities that have suffered damage from the earthquake both concretely and collaterally; Municipalities that also faced the snow emergency of last winter in a territory already exhausted by the earthquake. The city of Penne - for example - seems to be the victim of what I do not have problems defining as a real aggression: apparently, the Gentiloni Government Silveri wanted to pretend that this municipality was not affected by the earthquake; he then wiped out with a sponge blow the fact that it was the administration of Penne that lent relief in the tragedy of Rigopiano. Not content, they also decided not to suspend the health plans that provide for the closure of hospital facilities including that of Penne. The hospital of this municipality was fundamental in the tragedy of Rigopiano and not only: it collects a catchment area of 60,000 people who would be, in case of closure, forced to head towards the hospital of Pescara. Do you know how long it takes from Penne in the province of Pescara to get to Pescara? It takes almost an hour of cars and this would create a huge discomfort. Well, I have tabled a further amendment to prevent what would be a further slap on the people of those territories. The two amendments have, unfortunately, been turned into agendas, i.e. fresh air. That's the truth. In the special committee, I was asked - my sense of responsibility meant that I did accept it anyway - this secondary road, but it is not much: in fact, it is really very little. I hope that this Government will not confine itself - as it has done so far - to stigmatizing, when it was opposed, the management of the PD brand and then confirm instead the measures taken, but will depart from the facts, giving an effective contribution to the municipalities forgotten by the previous Executive. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I also wonder what exactly it was for the mayors to listen to: they came to the special Commission and spoke; I do not want to think that their hearing was a due act or even worse of propaganda. The Commission has the task and the duty to demonstrate before the whole country that, beyond the slogans, certain needy Italians come before others. In the light of the facts, it seems to me that this is not the case; on the contrary, it seems to me that the management of the earthquake by the Giallorossi Government is mirroring and moving in the wake of the PD management, since - I would like to reiterate - an amendment was rejected which provided for the reduction of the IRPEF for the affected populations. We do not fall into the error of considering this issue only in numerical and economic terms: the problem before it is legal and social is cultural. People expect the state to show the benevolence of a father and not to manifest itself as a severe stepmother. Earthquake zones need not only material aid to resurrect, but also a particular institutional sensitivity so that they do not disperse that immaterial heritage made up of people who live and work in a social context of which they belong and of which they are the identity. If this government really wants to make a difference, it must listen to the voices of the citizens and of those who really know and live those territories every day. For my part, I will not give up. I will not leave a load of unfair taxes on the shoulders of the people affected, in view of what they have been through and, therefore, the amendments rejected in the Commission have also been retabled. This government will have to tell me, the House and especially the affected people that they do not deserve special treatment, that everything they have suffered is not worth a reduction in the tax burden. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Steger]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u54	He's enlisted to speak Senator Coltorti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I am a geologist with specific experience of earthquakes that have manifested themselves in areas that I have personally investigated and in which I reside. It is easy to realize that the seismic risk is great throughout the Italian Peninsula: earthquakes in areas considered to be at low or zero risk such as Emilia-Romagna reveal that no sector of the Peninsula is safe from danger. The most dangerous areas are well known for a long time and are usually represented by elongated linear displacement bands. During the earthquakes, however, the solicitation mobilizes or remobilises the areas affected by disruption, in particular the landslides, which in some sectors of the Peninsula cover more than 70 percent of the territory. In these areas, action or action should be avoided only if there are no alternatives and, if so, with the necessary precautions and technical measures. There are also critical issues related to historical-architectonic reasons since our magnificent cities were built in periods when construction techniques did not take into account the need for an anti-seismic design. I am pleased that this decree-law is passed with the approval of all political forces. This is the spirit that should guide the approach to a cross-cutting and immanent problem. The decree-law had constraints to which the current majority had to adapt. It was born as an extension of deadlines for support to territories that, two years after the events, are still in emerging conditions. The members of the Commission, regardless of the political groups, have tabled improved amendments which the Government, although newly installed, has done everything possible to accept. We still have a lot to do to prevent events of this type from causing damage and, above all, mourning to our territories. It is very difficult and, above all, expensive to secure historic centers. Our constructions should be carried out with anti-seismic norms so that, as happens in a nation like Japan, they overcome with less damage and earthquake victims of magnitude much higher than that that that has hit our territory. It surprises, in fact, that structures built in the area of the crater collapsed when anti-seismic regulations were already in force in the area. On these issues, however, the judiciary is investigating and I hope that those who, like myself, would like to see those liable to be punished will not be accused of being a vigilante. A few weeks ago an important event was held in Rome organized by the committees set up following the earthquake and I assure you that seeing the faces of people, especially children, who were killed by the collapse of their homes, is truly heartbreaking. Our territory is at risk, sometimes at very high risk. It is necessary to recover the lost time for the in-depth knowledge of the territory since the geological cartography has a sometimes poor state of implementation and, however, extremely variable from Region to Region. Sometimes the regulatory fragmentation has led to different products between neighbouring regions and unfortunately will be necessary to standardize them. While in many European states the geological service has a national direction in our country the national role is often of only address with wide freedom to the Regions. The seismic microzonation, which allows to limit the most critical areas, is known only for a limited number of municipalities. Following the event, a high effort was made in the area of the crater to produce the third level seismic microzonation for the areas where the reconstruction was directed, although unfortunately the small numbers made available prevented obtaining exhaustive data. This instrument should have been used in all new structural plans and for new constructions. I have heard in this House again call for the construction of a bridge over the Strait of Messina. I remind everyone that the seismic danger of a region is calibrated on the maximum earthquake known that in the area of the strait it is of magnitude of little more than 7. No one can, however, ensure that in the area you can not manifest an earthquake with magnitude even higher and, unfortunately, many geological evidences, also in other Italian regions, suggest that such events have been and may be repeated. The costs of the construction of the bridge would rise further compared to the current estimates. As part of a planning with a national territory full of problems that will require significant economic commitments, it is wise to focus on the priorities that guarantee investments in strategic sectors. It seems useless to spend money on the bridge when then the rest of Italy needs a further massive investment plan for the accommodation of roads and schools. I believe that we will all jointly find a way of overcoming the problems linked to the slight discrepancies that have so far prevented the start of reconstruction. We must not forget that most people have lost their settlements living in small housing modules and that a large part of the productive fabric has been destroyed or compromised. The psychological aspect plays an important role in the reconstruction that we all hope for. Even today, to reach some important crater sectors, it takes hours of travel with roads that are largely broken down. Solidarity is a great gift and I recall once again that, as happened in the Special Commission, in order to cope with the great events that affect the country, it is necessary to be united and without jackals of any kind. We are and will remain united and close to the population in all possible ways, and we ensure that this decree-law will not exhaust our mandate to the passage between two legislatures. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u56	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u57	Mr President, I have listened with interest and I thank all my fellow Members who have also contributed to the general debate on this bill for the conversion of the Decree-Law, which largely transforms a measure into three points and which will emerge from this House today, strengthened by many measures. Many interventions have focused on a topic, that of the disparity of approach by the State of the various disasters that this country, unfortunately cyclically, sees overthrow on its territory. This is true: not all the tools used after a catastrophic event have been reused in another. This gives us the signal of a lack, perhaps that of - let us call it this - a general plan of emergency management that has a common skeleton of all those measures, including in terms of tax aid and facilitation to enterprises or procedures for reconstruction, and also of procedures for intervention on the emergency itself. The house, the prefabricated, the SAE: every time there is this debate. It is true that every territory probably has its own needs, linked to the specificities of that area. But I believe that Parliament must make an effort to understand whether it is possible to have a skeleton, a scheme that allows us to intervene immediately, quickly, consciously, with the same tools, in order to respond to all those affected by calamitous events. It has to do so in a parliamentary perspective, and I believe that this is something that can be dealt with. The operation that this majority, together with the Government, tried to do is summed up substantially on two fronts. We aligned most of the deadlines - it was the first objective - provided for in the numerous texts, ordinances and decrees at 31 December 2018. We did this because in this way, in reasoning on the budget law, many of the forecasts that were due even before that date (which we did not extend exclusively to be able to do it with greater certainty and with greater impact from 2018 onwards), we will be able to do them on the budget law. That will be the occasion on which we will give the answers that many colleagues have asked for today. There is no preferential rule that will expire before December 31, 2018. We have also aligned the deadline for the state of emergency, i.e. the time when the emergency state ends, with the time when the police structure ends. From this point of view, let me say that in recent days I have read several articles of newspapers, including local newspapers in that territory, controversy over the issue of the 700 employees who should be kicked out overnight because we have not adopted certain amendments. I remember that the municipalities have those employees at a cost to the police headquarters. This structure is alive at the moment, until 31 December 2018. There is already an agenda, which has obviously been accepted, because it is clear that the Commissioner's structure will not die at 31 December 2018. But those employees are linked to that deadline and the amendments were to extend the possibility of maintaining those 700 employees within the municipal structures after 1 January 2019. This was materially impossible without providing today for the extension of the commissioner's structure; however, obviously wanting to align the deadline for emergency management with the extension of the commissioner's structure (having done so until 31 December 2018), extending the commissioner's structure would also have meant extending the state of emergency. At this point, however, obviously the problem was the cover and, compared to those who say that there is nothing in the decree-law in question, we managed to find more than 360 million euros of cover for the extension of the emergency state and I believe that as a result it is not bad at all. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] Many things have already been said in the special committee and in the introductory report to the measure, but I would like to reply to Mr Saccone who said earlier that I should be embarrassed because there is nothing in this measure. I believe that he said that in a non-negative and controversial way, in the sense that I can understand the role of the opposition. On the other hand, I feel proud to have been able to contribute, with my small technical skills and even more limited political capacities, to keeping this decree-law together and the changes that we are making, involving a majority of government that is young and also, as far as possible, oppositions. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] I feel proud of how this majority has worked and supported the work of the rapporteur and also what I can call the co-rapporteur, Mr Arrigoni. As I said before, I also feel proud to have been able to create an involvement on issues that are not politically colored, but that simply have to solve the problems of those unfortunate citizens who have found themselves homeless, without work and without prospects. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] On these issues, I believe I have been able to help to show that we cannot be divided. I would therefore like to thank all my colleagues who have interpreted this spirit and who have spoken today, recognizing our work. I believe that we are expecting a number of votes on several amendments. We have said many things and we will deal with them. The last thing I feel proud of - and I say this honestly - is that I have been able to maintain a commitment that I had made in this House with the whole Senate: I am referring to the question of whether there was the possibility of intervening today, through an amendment by the rapporteur, on the small building discrepancies that are blocking many parts of the reconstruction. Today I tabled this amendment after a work which - I assure you - has been tiring, but thanks to the contribution of many we have managed to prepare a text that keeps together the need to share with the reconstruction with that of not opening excessively the meshes to interventions that were not lawful. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] We have done this work and I am proud to have been able to table it as the rapporteur's amendment. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u58	Having appreciated the circumstances and also in order to allow the Budget Commission to complete its opinion on the amendments, I would refer the continuation of the debate on the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u61	BINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked to speak in order to remind the House of Mr Mario Santi, Senator of the Republic from 1972 to 1979, elected in the VI and VII legislatures on the lists of Christian Democracy. Born in Lucca but lived in Prato, Mario Santi passed away at the age of ninety-four Saturday, June 23, in his home and in his city, surrounded by his family. From that moment until the funeral, which was celebrated on Monday in the cathedral, practically the entire city of Prato, without political distinctions, narrowed around the family manifesting towards Senator Saints esteem, gratitude and affection. Professor of philosophy at the Cicognini High School in Prato, strongly engaged in service to the community of Prato in important administrative roles, Mario Santi was active protagonist in the Catholic movement. He was connected to La Pira and felt close to the political positions of the mayor of Florence. In the Senate, Saints was in the 6th legislature a member of the Committees on Constitutional Affairs and Public Works, then in the 7th legislature of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Consultative Commission on EEC Regulations. In both legislation, he has been a member of the Special Commission on Environmental Problems. His parliamentary commitment met with the most dramatic years of our country, culminating in the tragedy of the kidnapping and assassination of the President of Christian Democracy, Aldo Moro. The last public release of Mario Santi was a few weeks ago for a meeting dedicated precisely to the fortieth of Moro's death, almost to seal the painful sign that that tragedy left indelible on him, professor like Moro, whom he knew and esteemed, as on an entire generation of Christian democrats and on all those who lived and suffered it. Estimated by colleagues from all the groups, Mario Santi in his parliamentary work was appreciated for a legislative activity in which there was never a lack of a dimension of humanity and great culture. I think it is right, and I know that I interpret the sentiment of all my fellow Members, that the Senate House should pay him a tribute and a remembrance together with gratitude for the civil commitment and passion he has given in his role as senator. To his wife Anna, daughters and sons, Ilaria, Francesco, Domenico, Tommaso and Caterina, who were lovingly close to him until the last the most heartfelt condolences and the sense of participation in their pain. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u62	I welcome Senator Bini's invitation and invite the House to observe a minute's silence in memory of Senator Mario Santi. [[The Assembly stands and observes a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u65	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, I would like to point out that, more than two months after the presentation, no reply has yet been given to Question 4,00042 on a fact which I consider to be relevant and which is taking on disturbing outlines, at least as far as we can learn from what I am referring to in the newspapers in the judicial inquiry: I am talking about the fact that the money that should have been there was not found on the accounts of a primary government party and that, according to a first-degree judgment, it is the result of a fraud committed against the State. This is a question that I put to the Minister of Justice on 17 April and, if it was understandable the lack of answers in the blackberries of the formation of a government, they are no longer understandable silences, melines and escapes from the duty to clarify now that a government is there; therefore this fact needs clarity as soon as possible. I have asked the Minister of Justice to tell us what he knows about these facts, what assessments he inspires and what action he intends to take, if any, on these circumstances which, I repeat, are alarming and disturbing, objectively and for at least two other reasons. The first is that it concerns a primary party of government and its relationship of correctness towards the State; the second is that for its role as political leader of that movement it is the Minister of the Interior in the first person who should feel the need and the institutional duty, for the role it plays, to get out of any muteness, from any silence and from any attempt to escape the duty to clarify. Therefore, through you, Mr President, I renew to the Government the invitation to respond promptly to the question, which today has been transformed into an oral question, with the signature of many colleagues. I would therefore ask you to be active, because I think that not responding to an act of inspection union is a serious matter and a lack of confidence in Parliament because this fact needs clarity and very quickly. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u68	MANGIALAVORI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, distracted members of the Government, there was a storm in the province of Vibo Valentia on the night of Sunday 17 and Monday 18 June, particularly in the municipalities of Nicotera a Joppolo. The torrential rains that have affected these areas have caused rivers of mud and debris which, in turn, have caused the evacuation of many areas of these two municipalities. Nicotera has been given a home, fortunately uninhabited, and in other areas have yielded the containment walls. In the neighborhood called Marina, however, the inhabitants were forced to leave their homes for fear of the flood of a river. The fixed telephone network has skipped and the rail traffic has been slowed down several times. In Joppolo the situation was not different, with damages and inconveniences spread throughout the municipal territory. Not to mention the fact that the walls fell and that only by chance there were no victims. These are dramatic events, which I myself referred to in detail in Question 4-00250 addressed to the Ministers for Transport Infrastructure and Economic and Financial Affairs, formally lodged on 19 June. This is roughly the scenario of the effects of the violent storm of June 17 and 18. Of course, it is still not possible to make a precise estimate of the damage in the two towns and in the entire province of Vibo Valentia. The two Municipal Councils, meanwhile, have formally requested the declaration of the state of natural disaster. A statement which, from my point of view, must be absolutely welcomed so that the populations affected can cope with the enormous damage caused by the storm and feel the presence of the State very strongly. I would like to remind you that the Province of Vibo Valentia is unfortunately not new to such episodes, as demonstrated by the tremendous floods that occurred not many years ago. For this reason I believe that the Government must do everything possible, and of course very quickly, to give concrete answers to a fragile territory and to a population who has the right to live in perfect safety within their own homes and in their own municipal territory. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u71	GRANATO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have decided to make this speech because this morning in Reggio Calabria, in front of the seat of the Regional Council, there was a sit-in of the socio-assistant operators for the state in which the Calabrian welfare system is located. Regional law n. 23 of 2003, implementing Framework Law n. 328 of 2000, created to solve problems related to social hardship, behavioral disorders, disability, rehabilitation and so on, to date remains an inextricable tangle, due to the ongoing legislative interventions of the Regional Council. The consequence has been that so many recipients of essential social services today suffer the immobilism of the Calabria Region, refractory to any response to the needs of the citizens. Even today, the answer to those who manifested has been "picks," yet the funds are there, but they do not arrive at the Municipalities for a dispute, now ended at the Council of State, born for the part. Unsubsidised facilities are at risk of not being able to provide food to the hosts, not to mention that the staff have not received their salary for ten months. In Calabria there are not enough facilities to take care of autistic subjects, abandoned to themselves if they do not have the economic means for expensive trips. This is the case of Saverio Corasaniti, the 18-year-old firstborn of a Catanzaro family with severe economic hardship, consisting of father, mother and four other children. No support for the family, no assistance for the boy, no center available to receive him and offer him a rehabilitation and maintenance treatment. The boy, who no longer attends school, is regressed and his conduct, increasingly difficult to manage, rests solely on his parents. For months I have been trying to raise awareness among local authorities and the few existing structures with endless waiting lists, with no results. This rapid excursus serves to introduce this assembly to the dramatic situation of Calabria, a region rich in potential and resources, which a failure of politics, right and left, has reduced in a state of extreme need, depriving citizens of the right to health, assistance and social services. Today, in these regional realities, where unfortunately our political side is not represented, the weakest groups are paying the highest price, the victims of the lack of vertical subsidiarity... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude. GRANATO (M5S). ...where autonomy has become, paradoxically, a boomerang, because the money that arrives or cannot be managed or used for cathedrals in the desert, to favor friends and companions, or to use time, in view of the electoral rounds, to renew customer relations with new precarious contracts, but never to offer efficient services to citizens and opportunities for development. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u72	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-14.ana.u73	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 27 June, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.34.
