ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.14 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u3	The next item is the statement by the Minister for the Interior on the case of the Aquarius vessel. After the intervention of the representative of the Government, each group will have five minutes available. I call the Interior Minister, Senator Salvini. [[Applause from the L-SP Groups, whose members stand, M5S and FdI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u4	Mr President, in thanking you for your prior applause, for your confidence, I confess my emotion: never in life, when I started my political activity, would I have thought of sitting on the benches of the government, but not even on the benches of Parliament. I feel the honor, the burden and the responsibility. This is my first speech, so I thank you for your attention - I will listen to everyone - and those who are following us from home. I have been given a detailed record of the facts, of course, and I will allow myself to introduce and conclude with two reflections. First of all, I would like to thank the former Attorney of Venice, Carlo Nordio, who today wrote an article that comforted me, entitled "Right and rights: the lesson that no one can give to our country", which requires me to say that I speak on behalf of a government and a majority, but that I come to have the ambition to speak on behalf of a people who in terms of generosity, volunteering, reception and solidarity has nothing to learn from anyone. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP, FI-BP and FdI groups.]] The problem is not the derby Italy-France of the world championships, which also see us excluded, but that our history of solidarity, generosity and volunteering does not deserve to be apostrophated with some terms used in the last hours by some exponent of the French Government, who I hope and think gives official apologies as soon as possible. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and FdI groups.]] Carlo Nordio, as I said, writes: International law, like all law, is not an exact science, so we have read everything and the opposite of everything. He adds that emigration, from a relatively modest and controllable phenomenon, has become an invasion, managed by criminals, and concludes by reminding us that our new Government will have many defects - true - but at this moment, on this subject, it is behaving with consistency and dignity, to which I add humanity. The first intervention that I asked, in fact, as a father of family, was to communicate with the ship Aquarius in order to immediately secure the women and the children, I emphasize it. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP, FI-BP and FdI groups.]] We did not have an answer: obviously, the emergency was not so emergency. At this moment, the ship Aquarius, with two ships of the Navy and the Coast Guard, is sailing serenely towards the waters of a country that is said to be available to welcome. France, as we said, tells us that we are cynical, but - I want to give the Senate and those who follow us the numbers of this phenomenon - from 1 January to 31 May this year the rejections at the border between Italy and France have seen us send back 10.249 human beings, including women, children and disabled people. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP, FI-BP and FdI groups.]] On the basis of the 2015 relocation agreements, France committed itself to welcoming 9,816 immigrants and over three years, instead of 9,816 immigrants, it welcomed 640 immigrants. Therefore, I ask President Macron to move from words to deeds and to welcome tomorrow morning the 9,000 immigrants who had committed themselves to welcoming [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP, FI-BP, FdI and Mixed-MAIE Groups]] to give a signal of concrete generosity, not just in words. I remember that Italy, at this moment, is the second country for welcome throughout Europe: therefore, we are talking about this. We are verifying the costs and the times, because the problem we will have to work on is the costs and the times: those who preceded me did a good job and we are not here to disassemble the good work done by others, but we simply try to do an even better job. Mr ASTORRE (PD). Call Minniti back! Mr Salvini, Minister for the Interior and Deputy President of the Council of Ministers. We are not particularly intelligent, but we take note of what has been done positively and we will see that we do even better. What does not work and on which, of course, those who preceded me have not been lucky enough and effective, are the time of identification, because from the moment of the disembarkation to the closing of the path, including the appeals, pass until about three years, which is an unacceptable and incomprehensible period of time. As regards the costs for each individual asylum seeker, I recall that the French spend 25 euros per day, to which they add in some cases four euros of pocket money, the Germans 26 euros, the Croatians 25 euros, the Austrians 23 euros and so on. Therefore, we will try to bring the costs of this immigration, which we find difficult to sustain, to the level of our similar countries in Europe. We do not see why we have to spend 35 euros to ensure services that in other countries involve much less spending. Next week I will have the honour to meet 250 girls and boys trained to be part of the new identification and recognition commissions, to speed up even more the time of distinction between refugees and those who are not refugees. I remember the numbers - I love - of this 2018: among the 42,000 questions examined there is a political refugee - it has been recognized as such - in seven cases out of 100. If we add the four cases out of 100 subsidiary protection, we get to 11 percent. There is an absolute majority of the questions that are rejected, because they lack any foundation. The problem is that behind there is a business and we say it aloud: 99 percent of the rejected applications are subject to appeal and there is the business of the attorneys of office, who make millions of euros on the skin of these unfortunates and occupy the classrooms of the courts. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP, FI-BP, FdI and Misto-MAIE Groups and from the government benches.]] So something needs to be done about this too. I come to the report that my offices had prepared for me. MALPEZZI (PD). Better late than never. Mr Salvini, Minister for the Interior and Deputy President of the Council of Ministers. ... but I thought it necessary, as Minister... VALENTE (PD). We don't! Mr Salvini, Minister for the Interior and Deputy President of the Council of Ministers. I'm sorry you don't think it's necessary. I am here as Minister and as a man and the only thing I do not accept, having two children, is to think that the Government is someone who wants the evil of children. [[Live and sustained applause from the M5S, L-SP, FI-BP, FdI and Mixed-MAIE Groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] I want these children not to be put on a dinghy in a position to die like beasts in the middle of the Mediterranean Sea. [[Comments of Senator Malpezzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u5	Don't interrupt the Minister! Mr Salvini, Minister for the Interior and Deputy President of the Council of Ministers. I'm sick of children dying in the Mediterranean Sea
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u6	[[Live and sustained applause from the M5S, L-SP, FI-BP, FdI and Mixed-MAIE Groups),]] for someone to deceive them that in Italy and in Europe there are home and work for everyone! I'm sick of these state deaths! ( [[Extended applause from the M5S, L-SP, FI-BP, FdI and Misto-MAIE Groups.Comments by Senators Malpezzi and Verducci]] I'm sick of these state deaths! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malpezzi, I invite you to shut up. Mr Salvini, Minister for the Interior and Deputy President of the Council of Ministers. If anyone prefers business, sit in a cooperative, not in the Senate Chamber. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP, FI-BP, FdI and Mixed-MAIE Groups. Senator Pharaoh is trying to perform a cartel. Comments by Senator Di Nicola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u7	There are no signs in the Chamber! Put that sign down, okay? Mr Salvini, Minister for the Interior and Deputy President of the Council of Ministers. But I don't mind the signs! I don't mind Macron, let alone a sign. (
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u8	[[Laughter. Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] Senator partner, pull up the sign you think you're pulling up. I don't have the slightest problem. The government was asked to report on the matter Aquarius, in the context of a rescue operation, which led to the rescue of 629 migrants in the waters of the Mediterranean. On June 9, 2018, six distinct events took place within Libya's declared area of responsibility, for which the coordination centre of the port captains based in Rome received the first requests for assistance. As a result of these requests, the coordination centre in Rome has been interested in the Libyan authority. The first problem is that, although Libya has ratified the Hamburg Convention of 1979 and has recently declared its own research and rescue area, it has not taken on the coordination of the six events. It should also be pointed out that, with the support of the Italian harbor captains, Libya is gradually proceeding to activate its own coordination centre rescued. We are working so that I personally, by June, can go to Libya to try to ensure equality of rights and duties on both sides of the Mediterranean. After the Libyan "no', the Maltese Search and Rescue (SAR) authority was also contacted as a coordination and rescue centre responsible for the area immediately adjacent to that of the events; however, even the Maltese authorities have not assumed responsibility for the coordination, as they have been used to doing for years. The fact that the government has raised, for once, the voice will probably put the Maltese in front of their responsibilities in order to help us save lives. The coordination centre in Rome therefore had to continue in the direction of relief operations for the six events mentioned above. The coordination activity of the operations has led to the rescue of 629 people who have been gathered on the ship Aquarius. After the rescue operations were completed, the ship Aquarius began its navigation to the North and, once it reached the Maltese SAR area, in order to guarantee as soon as possible assistance to migrants, the NGO ship flying the flag of Gibraltar required in Malta, through the coordination centre of Rome, a safe port to dock under the International Convention on Search and Maritime Rescue signed in Hamburg. On this point it is appropriate to specify that the ship Aquarius, at 12 noon on Sunday 10 June, when it was about 64 nautical miles south of the island of Malta, has manifested security problems on board and therefore has asked the Maltese authorities to be able to land the rescued persons on the island. Waiting for this response repeatedly urged and that it lasted for the entire day of Sunday 10 June, the ship Aquarius continued to remain in the areas of Maltese competence. In the first hours of the night of 11 June, the ship's commander communicated to the coordination centre in Rome the worsening of the health situation, as well as the shortage of food resources. Still solicited in the morning of 11 June, with an official communication at the coordination centre in Rome, Malta denied its competence on the event in question: it didn't matter. Pending determinations regarding the identification of a safe landing port (POS), the ship Aquarius, which was stationed in the Maltese search and rescue area, has been constantly flanked by patrol boats of the Italian Coast Guard, with medical personnel boarded to provide eventual health assistance. It has also been supplied with food and whatever else is necessary for all persons on board. I would point out, as I have already said, that it has been offered to the captain of the Aquarius vessel twice, at 12.11 and at 14.00 on 11 June, the Italian authorities' willingness, on my recommendation, to have people who may need medical assistance, such as pregnant women and children, landed on national territory; availability which was not received by the commander of the unit. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP, FI-BP and FdI groups.]] In this case you can see the difference between virtual reality and real reality, between what was read on Internet sites, newspapers and social media and what we asked to do, to which was answered with a kind: no, thank you, I don't care. It is clear that if there is an emergency we are the first to want to intervene; if, on board this ship of a NGO, it is not believed that there is an emergency, obviously someone says something that is not so true, but so much. In the first hours of the afternoon of the 11 june the Spanish Government communicated own availability to the disembarkation of the 629 migrants near the port of Valencia; availability later formalizzata, to hours 22,48 of the same day. I thank the Spanish friends, but remembering the numbers, according to which to date Italy hosts around 170,000 asylum seekers in the Italian structures. The numbers tell us that in Spain there are 16,000; 16,000 versus 170,000. I thank the good heart of President Sánchez, who has ample scope to exercise his generosity and welcome even in the weeks to come, given the numbers from which we start. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP, FI-BP and FdI groups.]] The commander represented that, in order to make the voyage safely, the ship Aquarius could not accommodate more than one hundred migrants on board. Well, we moved, on the evening of 11 June a meeting was held at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, with the participation of myself and my colleagues (thank you for the unity of action and intentions), the Minister for Transport and Infrastructure Danilo Toninelli and the Minister for Defence and the Military Navy Thirty. It has been decided to make available two ships, one of the Navy and one of the harbor captains, to assist the Aquarius and take on board 250 people on the Orion and 273 on the Dattilo and accompany for a quiet and safe journey to the port of Valencia the said ship Aquarius. These are the facts. For God's sake, we are a political assembly, so everyone can give the interpretation they want. The migratory phenomenon is certainly complex. I am referring, for example, to the 170,000 immigrants, as I said, in reception at this moment, whose number has decreased in the last year, thanks to useful and intelligent operations of those who preceded me, in the face of the reduction in the number of landings, which I will try to work even more on. There are some oddities: the first ethnicity for landings this year is represented by about 3,000 Tunisian citizens. I will also look forward to meeting my Tunisian colleague as soon as possible, because it seems to me that Tunisia is a free country, endowed with autonomous institutions, it is not the victim of wars, pestilences or famines, so I will try to bring all the comfort and help needed by the Italian people to the Tunisian people so that these boys and girls can grow and seek a job and a life in their country, rather than put themselves on a boat. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP, FI-BP, FdI and Mixed-MAIE Groups.]] There would be three more, four or five pages, but I prefer to spend time with you, rather than reading numbers. I would like to say that I have heard so many European colleagues in these hours. I read that Italy is isolated. I think we've never been as central and as listened to as we have these hours. I have spoken with my German colleague, with whom we have shared that we must return to the question of protecting the Italian external borders as European borders and not just Italian borders. We cannot be the only ones doing what we deservedly do in the Mediterranean, bearing economic costs and social costs. If Europe is there, hit it now or hold it forever. We gave him the opportunity and opportunity. I have heard from my French colleague, the Hungarian one, I will meet my Austrian colleague, I have heard embassies from several countries, from Tunisia to Libya. So there is a focus that has never been; it is up to us now to play the cards proactively, not only negative. The Dublin regulation must obviously be exceeded today. They tried to impose a rule that would have further aggravated the situation in Italy, with a stay of up to ten years of additional migrants, without any possibility of being welcomed in other countries. We have agreed on a constructive no and I think that with my German colleague and my Austrian colleague - since the competence and the European Presidency will be of our Austrian colleagues from 1 July - we will propose our own initiative, both on the internal and external fronts. Over the past few hours, I've had a lot of weight on my shoulders. Political criticism is in place, it is fair, it is healthy. My goal is to save lives; my goal is to ensure that these children can grow up in the best possible way, without running away from their villages and cities to put themselves on dinghies, which by now the criminals of the human trafficking business have already started deflated, because there is so much someone who goes to recover these unfortunates. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP, FI-BP, FdI and Mixed-MAIE Groups.]] We'll see in the next few hours. They are landing migrants gathered by the Italian military authorities' ships. It is time for States to become States again. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP, FI-BP and FdI groups.]] It is not possible that private associations financed by who knows who to impose times and ways of immigration. It is enough to look at where some funding comes from, even if this issue will be the subject of a forthcoming information. I love every kind of generosity and volunteering, I'm a donor of blood and organs, but when I read that behind some organism there is the Open Society Foundations of George Soros, some doubt begins to come to me about how spontaneous this generosity is. [[Live and sustained applause from the M5S, L-SP, FI-BP and FdI groups.]] I close with a reflection: Love your neighbor as yourself. Right. My neighbor, therefore, are women and children fleeing the war and who are the first victims of the confusion that we are experiencing. Those few boys, women and children who run away from the war must have their own home and cannot be mixed with illegal immigration that simply leads to social confrontation. But "love your neighbor as yourself" also means to love the millions of Italians who in silence have lost home, work and hope. I repeat: they have lost home, work and hope. [[Live and sustained applause from the M5S, L-SP, FI-BP and FdI groups.]] Therefore, with all my limitations and all my defects, I will do everything humanly possible to give voice to the real refugees, to the regular immigrants and for good who come here to build for themselves and their children a future, respecting our history, our culture and our traditions, and above all I will do everything so that these Italians who have lost hope, this can return and to this I will devote all my next years as Minister but above all of life, honored to be able to do so at the disposal of the Italian people. Thank you all. [[Applause from the L-SP Groups, whose members stand, M5S, FI-BP and FdI. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u9	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of the Interior. Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u10	Mr President, Minister, this morning 932 people were rescued and taken to the port of Catania by the Diciotti ship of the Italian Coast Guard. 932 people who add to the many we have saved all these years. I open a parenthesis and close it, only for a small correction to the Minister who forgot to say that several of the people who were on the ship Aquarius were transported there by boats of the Italian Coast Guard. [[Brusio]] Excuse me, I'm just trying to reason. In that case, therefore, the NGO also carried out a supportive action in relation to a service requested by the Italian authorities. 932 people who have landed are the last piece of a chain. I would like to say to the foreign authorities, to the friendly states, to Europe: the governments pass, the states remain. We must always give priority, and I say this to you in this House, to a spirit of institutional continuity, because the Republic is founded on this principle. Italy cannot accept lessons and the insults that the French have addressed to us in these hours, are not rejected only by the Minister pro tempore Salvini, are rejected by the whole Assembly of the Senate and by all Italians. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), FI-BP, PD and Mixed.]] I want to say this because, Minister, you must know that no political polemic, even harsh, that can divide us in the coming years, can lead us to assume a connotation and an anti-institutional and anti-Italian dress. Never, because that would conflict with our history. Among other things, it is useless to remember the inhuman behaviors that our colleagues had in Bardonecchia or Ventimiglia, but I would like to add one important aspect: in recent months, there has been a traffic that I did not like, in Libya, by the French authorities, that are the same that in recent years have worked, probably under the table, for a tripartition of Libya, while the Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri Governments worked to guarantee the unity of Libya and help the Government legitimately installed by the United Nations. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Here, then, it is not only about the inhumanity of certain rejections, but also about a work under the table that we must bring to the attention of the international community and of Europe, because it is not possible for the main European actors or players to play different parts in the same comedy on a scenario like the Libyan one. It is no coincidence that in these hours from Libya 50,000 people are reporting to us ready to leave, while this phenomenon had been attenuated or at least had somewhat diminished. We were left alone, Mrs Merkel remembered. Mr. Minister, you're very good at talking to everyone, because we've all been left alone. You have mentioned the data of Spain, I would like to recall the attitudes of the authorities of Visegrád, when, in front of the idea of redistribution, they were the first to say: In our house, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Now, today we seek alliances with them, it is true that São Paulo has converted on the road to Damascus, I hope that you are better than those who converted São Paulo, but I note that the countries of Visegrád are those who say no to the reform of regulations, like us, but for reasons diametrically opposed to us. I do not know, therefore, how it will be possible in the future [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT,UV).]] Let me turn to the second point: institutional continuity. Can I give you a suggestion? I am an old man, someone says too much, but you also tolerate the elderly because society is made up of young and old (they said that cities are defended with the weapons of young people and with the advice of the elderly). I advise you to offer a coffee to your predecessor, precisely in the spirit of institutional continuity to which I have referred, because there is an experience of those who, in my opinion, have done well - because statistics show that your predecessor has done well - that cannot be dispersed today. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] One last thing I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u11	Senator Casini, please conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u12	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). That's the last thing, and I'm just gonna say it with a flash. We do everything we want on this decisive issue (50 million people move around the world), but let's stop campaigning, all together, on the skin of these wretched people, because this will not bring any advantage to Italy, to the Government that you authoritatively represent, but also to the opposition. This is too important a subject to make a permanent election campaign on it. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Merlo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u13	I would ask you to keep to the times.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u14	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u15	Mr President, first of all I would like to raise an issue which we very much care about and which I would solemnly like to reiterate in this House: it exists and should be shared by all, Minister, by a scale of values, which is the one that distinguishes or should distinguish humanity, without which politics is reduced only and solely to a pure and cynical game of power. In the first place in this scale of values - let us never forget this - the principle of humanity always comes that is nouned in respect for life, people and human dignity. I am saying this because I believe it is the indispensable premise of what I will tell you very frankly. Having engaged an arm wrestling on the skin of 629 people, using them almost as human shields, including many children, women and people even in difficulty, we find it not serious, but very serious. We are not of the school "the end justifies the means" precisely because the means were used in this way. We will be able to discuss for a long time - you know - what you said, that is whether or not the ship had already entered Italian territorial waters or whether or not it was closer at the time you asked for help. We'll have a chance to see this later. On these points - you know better than I do - and on this issue we have, I do not think I should remind you, the London Convention on the Protection of Human Life at Sea, the International Convention on Maritime Research and Rescue and the United Nations Convention. All these conventions reaffirm how human life is respected and what must be done to safeguard it. When I say that the first point is respect for human life and the dignity of people, Minister Salvini, I mean that, as far as we are concerned, this principle applies to Ventimiglia - and many of us have been at the border protesting for how France behaved and continues to behave - and it applies to the case of Aquarius. Does this mean that we are not aware of Europe's responsibilities? Of course, if we're aware of that. In all these years we have witnessed a ripple of responsibility and a discharge that we can call absolutely shameful. I would like to say that Europe, on the immigration front, has appeared in all its misery because of the absence of solidarity and union, as we are continuing to see. That is why, all the more so, we do not justify the fact that, in order to induce Europe to change its attitude, we can make an arm wrestle on people's skin. We do not accept either the insults or the crampons of France for how they behaved and continue to behave even in the Alps but, Minister, we cannot accept the decision you have taken. It is right and proper to ask for Europe to reverse its course, to change the wrong rules, to review the Treaty of Dublin, but we cannot - I repeat - use unarmed and innocent people as hostages and human shields. We can only call that cynical to say the least. We cannot forget, however, who has signed those wrong rules. Let's just ignore it, but who signed the Dublin regulation? You should be very aware of this, because your party was an integral part of that Government that signed and ratified the Dublin Rules of Procedure. Now we cannot ignore what alliances he wants to change those rules with: with Visegrád and Hungary who were among the first to break the front that he wanted to share the reception itself? That's the point. Our gratitude goes to Spain, even if it has its responsibilities, but you have sung victory, but, Minister, we tell you that Pirro's victories exist, as Mrs Bonino says, and then the consequences of these Pirro's victories we all pay as a country. For the cynicism that has been demonstrated on this occasion - I repeat, cynicism - today we risk not putting our country in the condition of building the best alliances for a true reform of European rules. What will happen when other ships arrive? What's gonna happen? These are the issues that we...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u16	Please finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u17	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Let's be clear, once and for all. You, Minister, asked how immigrants are taken away from the scafists: first of all by putting your hand to the criminal law that is the Bossi-Fini, which has closed all the possibilities of regular entry. That is the point, and I hope that once and for all in this House we can discuss immigration seriously and not use it solely for election purposes. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU and PD Groups and Senator Minuto]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u18	You are registered to speak Senator La Russa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the reconstruction made by the Minister of the Interior, so I will not extend because the applause we have given him, as a force of opposition, shows that when the Government behaves correctly it will always find the support of those who do not support this Commission. And I have seen with pleasure that the same reception was manifested by the whole center-right, also by Forza Italia, as well as by those who are at the Government. Well, coming out of the contingent situation, which is also the reason for your report, Minister, I wonder if the left has really checked - I say this in absolute good faith - whether an increase in departures corresponds to a humanitarian act or if, instead, by drawing the sums of what has happened in recent years, it has not been realized that, beyond the good intentions (which I do not want to exclude from the start) such an increase has been paid an increase in the deaths. Even in relation to human respect, I ask the left whether he has drawn the sums, if he has not realized that the increase in arrivals is paid a total lack of respect for those who arrive. People forced to live in a miserable way, on many occasions worse than when they left, betraying their hopes; people who, perhaps, watching advertising on television - for those who can see it - imagined that our reality was all gold, all silver. Mr President of the Senate, Minister, Senators, what does Brothers of Italy ask? Do you think that this fine choice of the Minister could be the solution? No, this is an important signal to Europe, to other countries; it cannot be the solution. Oh, my God, luckily, Spain has become a socialist, so maybe it does PD policy and takes them all - hopefully! - [[Applause from the FdI, M5S, FI-BP and L-SP Groups]] But we cannot count on it for long, not least because in a year's time the situation in Spain would be the same as it was in Italy. Mr President, we believe that then the solution (and if we need to make laws, let's make them) which, moreover, is of less risk for those who dramatically are picked up by those ships, is to let ships into the ports in the future, and however, with an adequate regulatory framework that, in my opinion, already exists - but if you want, you can integrate it - to seize the ships of Soros. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and L-SP Groups]] And perhaps denounce for dealing with men, women and children those who lend themselves to carrying them, perhaps in agreement with the hullers. Says La Russa? Colleagues, the alarm did not launch Salvini or La Russa, Brothers of Italy or the League. The alarm has launched one of the most esteemed people in the judiciary, whose path I have the honour to know: the chief prosecutor of Catania, the prosecutor Zuccaro, who ordered the seizure. [[Applause from the FdI, M5S, FI-BP and L-SP groups.]] And it doesn't seem to me that the CSM has done anything against Zuccaro, who is absolutely right. He said to be careful because these NGOs - not always, but in some cases - are nothing more than the taxi drivers of those who transport, for a short time, immigrants, who may move with the dinghy holes because there are so many taxis. That is the solution, and it is not the Dublin regulation, nor the Visegrád Group, which - I say to my left-wing colleagues - in any case affects 8% of immigrants. Study it. Even by amending the Treaty of Berlin, relocation will affect refugees recognised as refugees and not 85% of illegal immigrants that we pretend have the right to stay in Italy. [[Recalls of the President]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I ask that I, too, be given 30 seconds more time. We've come up with humanitarian protection. We have decided that in Italy 25% of immigrants enjoy protection that does not exist anywhere else in the world. We have called it "humanitarian" and therefore we are in place, as the blind whom we call blind and who, suddenly, being blind and no longer blind, see. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and L-SP Groups]] Minister, thank you for that signal. Brothers of Italy expect the journey to continue with respect for human lives and in the desire to help those we can help, but in the firmness that this will help those who need it and to make the Italian citizens who have the right more tranquil. [[Applause from the FdI, M5S, FI-BP and L-SP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u20	Senator Pinotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u21	Mr President, on the premise that I would like to condemn, on behalf of the Democratic Party, the vulgar and offensive words that a French representative has addressed to Italy. Therefore, Minister Salvini, I subscribe to your premise and to the words I have heard from Senator Casini. However, this does not prevent us from giving political judgment. Minister Salvini, the story of the ship Aquarius well sums up a style of government aimed more to continue the roboating tones of the electoral campaign, than to really solve the problems of the Italians, as you say you want to do. Problems that are more complex (the case of migrations, after a period of tension, turbulence and wars that have affected North Africa and the Middle East, is part of the very complex problems), the more they need strategy and not propaganda actions and proclamations. With the so-called closure of the ports to the ship Aquarius, she wanted to present herself as the strong man, but in reality she manifested a great weakness. The wall you erected against more than 600 people in serious difficulty did not stop the landings. The theme is not to do striking actions, but how we continue to govern flows. You know that, because the data is not manipulatable, not even from propaganda. With the action of Minister Minniti the flows of arrivals have decreased by 80%, in general, and by 85% for those coming from Libya. Why, then, the closure of the ports? The ports close only in exceptional cases, of real great emergency for the country. Last June 10th, when you, Minister Salvini, engaged in the battle with Malta, there was no migrant emergency. The numbers of arrivals had already been very contained by those who preceded it. Then why did he do it? Before he spoke of business, he expressed himself with offensive words towards Tunisia, saying that the parcel is over, and then he closed the ports. His gesture was only symbolic and propaganda; a useless, symbolic and inhuman cruelty. [[Comments from the L-SP Group]] Leaving more than 600 people on the deck of a ship at sea, including pregnant women, small children, minors and burned people just to make propaganda is in fact inhumane. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And don't say that you did it to make the European Union realize it. What would have happened if Spain had not given availability to the reception? The Spanish Government's availability is not its success. The Sánchez government has shown solidarity not to its positions, but to the people who are stuck on that ship, left alone in the middle of the Mediterranean. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The wall she erected did not stop the landings (it proves what is happening this morning in Catania), but isolated Italy. His words and actions are isolating Italy in Europe and in the world, isolating it because our actions distance Spain, France and Tunisia. We will see how the cooperation that we had activated with Libya will proceed and which had produced important results. It has received support only from some leaders of the Visegrád group, moreover those same leaders who refuse to accept the European relocations. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Even a refugee with a right has not been accepted by those who now applaud his action. Without a policy for Africa, without returns, without relocations, what remains of a political strategy of governance of flows, which was a heritage of Italy, not of a government, not of a majority, but of Italy, just the one you talked about? [[Comments from FI-BP and FdI Groups]] You have made an entirely political move, but it is a direction without strategy, it is an irreconcilable action; but it is a revealing action. We asked Prime Minister Conte to be here this morning. A President-in-Office of the Council who has not so far spent a word on the hottest topical issue for our country and who should have summarized the action of the Ministers. The closure of the ports, as you well know, is not yours, but it is the responsibility of the Minister of Infrastructure Toninelli. Nothing from Prime Minister Count, deafening silence. We must infer that it is the Salvini Government and not Conte that today leads Italy. Do you have this great responsibility? Well, then tell me: is it true that Europe must and can do more, but can hostages be used to get it? Because that is what you did: you did not hesitate to take more than 600 unarmed and desperate people hostage, to make yourself heard at the European table. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations. Comments from the L-SP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u22	Senator Iwobi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u23	[[Applause from the L-SP, M5S, FI-BP and FdI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, the Aquarius case undoubtedly marks a change of direction in Italian policy on the management of migratory flows. The current Government has given the whole country a clear signal of change. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] And this is the first step of the Government of Change. How many times have we witnessed, in recent years, European summits talking about loyal cooperation, solidarity (for the management of immigration above all), a common policy? How many handshakes, how many words in the wind, to pretend the existence of a united and supportive Europe! Italian citizens in recent elections have realised that they have been fooled by governments that have proved incapable of moving from words to deeds in relations with the European Union, in particular on the issue of immigration. Italy has been abandoned to its duties; the European border has now moved north of Europe. [[Applause from the L-SP, M5S and FdI Groups.]] Someone called the political action of this government to be pukeable and this someone, France, is precisely that country that closed the borders of Ventimiglia and that is responsible for the shameful fact of Bardonecchia, when the French authorities closed the doors to a pregnant and sick Nigerian woman, then died after the birth. [[Applause from the L-SP, M5S, FI-BP and FdI Groups.]] Just that country has rushed to deny the willingness to welcome the ship Aquarius last morning. We do not accept lessons of civilization from France or from any other country, even from Spain of the barriers of Ceuta and Melilla, and we do not accept lessons of humanity from political forces rejected to the ballot box by the voters and that have reduced this nation to the present state, especially in the field of immigration. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] [[Applause from the L-SP, M5S, FI-BP and FdI Groups]] The uncontrolled management of migratory flows has led, over the last four years, to more than 15,000 deaths at sea and has cost us billions and billions of euros: what happened has absolutely nothing to do with the immigration that I have experienced. You have to be clear: the only way to keep these people from dying at sea is not to let them go through those tunnels of death. [[Applause from the L-SP, M5S, FI-BP and FdI Groups]] Organised crime in North Africa continues to handle trafficking in human beings and we cannot continue to manage this phenomenon alone, nor to deceive, with goodness, thousands and thousands of young Africans compared to a future in Italy that is difficult for our young people themselves. This government, unlike previous governments, calls Europe to its duties, awakening the conscience of the international community and asking with the facts and loudly that Italy not be left alone once again: and, who knows why, when there is someone who asks or decides to change things really, everyone criticizes without advancing half a solution to the problem. [[Applause from the L-SP, M5S, FI-BP and FdI Groups]] Mr Salvini, we deeply appreciate your balance, your wisdom, your courage and your common sense, with which you have finally begun to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u25	I invite you to conclude, Senator Iwobi.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u26	IWOBI (L-SP). I conclude by saying that finally Italy has a Government that has at heart the safety and well-being of its People in respect of human dignity. I don't want to be an accomplice to the new modern slavery. [[Applause from the L-SP, M5S, FI-BP and FdI Groups]] . Many congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister for the Interior, the Forza Italia Group agrees, from the first to the last, with the words you have spoken in this House and we have no difficulty in saying that we who have not voted for confidence in this Government, to which we would have many things to criticize (but we will do so when we get there), are linked to the programme that you, too, have signed with us on immigration: the points that the centre-right has proposed to the Italians. I would like to remind them of ourselves: the resumption of border control; the blocking of landings and assisted rejections; a Marshall plan for Africa; the repatriation of illegal immigrants and the abolition of that unique institute of humanitarian protection, because refugees are refugees and illegal immigrants are illegal and this third Italian route is not good. We are bound to that program: if the Government acts on what is a program that you, Minister, know and have signed, our position will be clear and transparent, without having to be hypocrites. Then, Minister, I take advantage of these few minutes to point out to you also some things that need to be done. We worked in Parliament during the last parliamentary term with the government of the time - in particular Senator Romani and Senator Bernini - and I claim for Forza Italia, even then the opposition, the merit of having asked for a survey of NGOs and of having determined a regulation that has restricted their action. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] If the landings have decreased, and we have no difficulty in recognizing the Realpolitik that Minniti also practiced, however remains the action of party of government culture that Forza Italia believes to realize in every phase of the Italian political life [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In this spirit, Minister, I would like to refer here to the subject of controls - you have not spoken about it - with Operation EUNAVFOR Med or Operation Sophia: in this House we have presented dozens of motions and have made numerous speeches to ask for the third stage of that operation, also done with the UN, acting on the Libyan coasts to block the boatmen from leaving. That must be done. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP groups]] Otherwise - Minister, you are also Vice President of the Council and you can give orders to Minister Toninelli and others - the Italian ships that are in areas where relief must be done by Maltese, Libyans and others, risk filling up with illegals and disembarking in Catania, as is happening at this time with a coastal guard ship. Those ships, if they are not used to fight traffic, send them to Livorno, Venice, Ventimiglia or wherever you want: you have the power to do so. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP groups]] As you can see, our attitude is proactive. We must discuss this with the UN, with Europe and with you: if you need an additional dose, we are here for this. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I also want to say that we do not accept lessons from anyone: other colleagues have said so, but I want to reiterate that. We do not accept them from Spain, which was shooting in Gibraltar; we do not accept them from France, which from Ventimiglia to Bardonecchia acted as we know. We do not want France's emetic crises; we want Europe's hermetic borders. This is our program. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We do not even take lessons from Malta and I do not have time now to talk about all the dark things that happen in Malta, on which I will dwell on another occasion. We take lessons from the center-right governments led by Berlusconi, who implemented the Realpolitik on the immigration front: the agreements with Gaddafi, which was a very bad subject, even if today you, Minister, have three or four Gaddafi to talk to: the mayors of the Maghreb, Sarraj, Haftar. Your mission to Libya will not be easy, but you will have to do it. And then, we take lessons from those governments and those policies that we claim, and you and your party have shared them with those governments and so how we can be proud of them. We do not take lessons then, colleagues, not even from the left, because it was Silvio Berlusconi who went to the pier of Brindisi in 1997 the day that 81 Albanians died. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It was Silvio Berlusconi who brought solidarity. So, speaking of closed ports, they can also be closed in a humanitarian spirit. I could say a lot of other things, but I'm afraid time has passed. How does Europe want to spend its 35 billion on controls? Are the 21 billion at the borders to close them or to transport illegals? I would like to take this opportunity to thank the authoritative position of the President of the European Parliament, Antonio Tajani, who has once again made his voice heard loud and clear in these hours. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We therefore have proposals: we want to urge Avramopoulos to say that the problem is European and not Italian, and there is the choir we have heard, with the leader of the EPP Weber who said that this is a European and not an Italian problem. There is a lot to do and the emergency is there, because spending 5 billion in Italy to get the results of San Ferdinando and Foggia means that there is an emergency with money wasted and with rampant deals. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that there is nothing humanitarian about helping traffickers out of Africa's desperation; there is nothing humanitarian about wishing and applauding landings that then prepare the slavery of the Apulian or Calabrian countryside, because then that happens after the landings. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is a humanitarian solidarity that Italy has always practiced, but with the necessary security, which is indispensable for us. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u28	Senator Pesco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u29	Mr Alberti Casellati, Ministers present, Mr Salvini, I would like to thank you for your careful analysis of this House. The situation is critical and, in our opinion, you have acted in the best possible way. I apologize in advance if I will use the second plural person in addressing you or the first plural person to indicate us, but know that he will always have our support, until he continues to act in this way, putting first the respect and protection of human life, because so you have done; and if you continue to do so, you will have our support. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] The situation is critical, but it was well managed: there was a ship that was not in international waters of Italian competence and there were authorities that should have intervened, but they did not. We have done everything we can to ensure the safety of these people, through the Navy and the other authorities, and nothing has happened that we can blame ourselves for, so we are absolutely calm about it. But we have managed to do something great, that is to raise the political issue at international level: everyone has to do their part. [[Comments from the PD Group. Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] Mr President, I would kindly ask that the volume of the amplification system should not be reduced, otherwise I have to lean and I cannot speak. This is important: we have managed to raise the political issue at international level and it is right that we continue to do so. We have been accused by several countries of having acted cynically and cruelly - words have even been used that I do not want to repeat in this House - and by those same authorities that have acted in the past instead against human life, with rejections in Ventimiglia, Bardonecchia and other places. We must ensure that these things are at least recognised, that we do not continue to criticize ourselves in this way and that we are able to respond adequately. Let us thank Spain for the example it has given, a good example that must be copied from other nations, because - I repeat - we cannot continue to do everything we do. We thank the citizens, the people, associations and foundations who help these people who arrive in Italy and need first aid. We all thank you, but we cannot continue to bear this burden, which is right to be shared through other nations and other European countries. Mr President, the situation - I repeat - is critical, but we must continue in this way. We are a country under attack, from the spread and the migratory flows: I also suspect that maybe the people who attack us with the spread are the same ones who attack us with the migratory flows. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] It is a serious accusation, I know; it can be, but it must be recognized and put on the plate as one of the arguments that we must deal with. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and FdI groups.]] Mr President, we respect the European Union, but it must respect us. We must preserve it, through shared actions, that are not only in reception, but also in investments and actions in the countries from which these people leave. Well, we all have to do it together: let's go talk to all the European countries to understand what these actions are. Diplomacy will certainly be exhausting work, but we know that we are able to do so and we will do so. I would like to remember one thing about the past: of course, migratory flows have been slowed down, not diminished; that is the fact: people who did not leave then, are leaving now and were not comfortably at home waiting to check in, but were suffering in the Libyan camps. We must recognize this: we need consistency and loyalty in recognizing these things. Let's start from this point. Mr President, I do not go too far, but we do everything we can to ensure that the European Union is preserved and that it acts consistently, loyally and precisely, ensuring that no human life is endangered. Let's keep going this way, thank you. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and FdI groups and Senator Buccarella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u30	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister of the Interior, whom I thank for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u33	DRAGO (M5S). Mr President, it will take me a few minutes simply to draw attention to a fact linked to a particular affair of the Municipality of Trecastagni, in the province of Catania. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, recent news events in Trecastagni, the municipality of the province of Catania, have aroused alarm and concern within the citizenship, and beyond. I am referring in particular to the events that led to the dissolution by the Council and the Municipal Council on 8 May, inevitable consequence of what emerged from the investigative activities carried out, at the end of last year, by the commissioners of the prefecture, within the so-called Gorgoni investigation. The investigation, lasting three months, has established the unfaithful behavior of a manager and an official of the Municipality, who, in the context of the procedures aimed at the custody of the waste collection and disposal service, would on several occasions have favored an entrepreneur considered by investigators near malavitous environments. It appears, among other things, that one of the stakeholders has returned to service, even if it is intended for another office. This very serious situation has been followed by further events, which have contributed to increasing the concern of citizenship. [[Brusio]] Mr. President, I could stop here. I believe that this attitude, which is punctually adopted, is uneducational when a senator - a colleague - speaks or carries out a report of any kind. I am a teacher: we often host schoolchildren, to whom we bear witness of incivilization. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u34	Senator, anyone who has no interest in listening is coming out, so there is no one here uncivil, frankly.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u35	[[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] DRAGO (M5S). Let me say that he educates himself with life and not with words: I move on. As I said, this very serious situation has been followed by further events, which have contributed to increasing the concern of citizenship. In particular, last May 18 - this is the particular event to which I would like to emphasize, that the press, apart from the local one, has not evidenced - unknown have set fire part of the church of the Madonna dell'Aiuto, monument of the seventeenth century, leaving evident traces of the arsonous nature of the gesture accomplished, almost to want to send a clear message to the recipient of their criminal action. It was an act of intimidation against the Church, in a South where institutions are absent, where religious folklore often marries with the mafia mentality, and where the value of the public good is minimized. These facts make the need to strengthen the presence of the forces of order on site clear and imperative... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. DRAGO (M5S). ... an intervention that would help to give a clear signal of proximity to the State. No less incisive it could be a restoration of the church, which would help to give the inhabitants a sign of hope, by virtue of solutions aimed at restoring the splendor of Trecastagni, Common on the slopes of Etna. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u38	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, we learn from the press sources of the inquiry into the project of the new stadium in Rome: I stress that it is the project, because there are not even the executive projects, the foundation stone has not been laid and the area is still under iudice, because of the investigations concerning the exundability. We have great confidence in the work of the judiciary and we pay the greatest attention to the developments of the investigation itself. We are interested, however, to listen soon to the voice of the municipal administration, the voice of the mayor, because Rome is our main interest, at this moment. The concern is for our city, our capital and the very serious risk is that of a new block of economic recovery, which is certainly linked to the revival of construction and private investment. The new stadium is one of the great works that could contribute to the recovery of employment in this city. Under the Capitol a few days ago there was a great demonstration of the unions that asked for the unblocking of the works in this city, so our concern is also to be able to rebuild, to give a response to the great unemployment present in Rome, which unfortunately was overwhelmed by the block of construction. With respect to the investigation we certainly have the utmost confidence, but we ask that planning and investment should not stop. We certainly listen carefully to all the voices that will come about this, but let's remember that the recovery of the Capital must be for everyone a priority and the preventive blocking of something that is still planned makes us tremble and makes us reflect on the fact that in this city we have already witnessed the blockade of the Olympics and other realities that then have only led to immobilism [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u39	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-11.ana.u40	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 19 June, at 11 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 12:27 a.m.
