ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the M5S Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, a request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as everyone knows, last night the city of Strasbourg became the stage of a murderous attack which, according to a provisional budget, resulted in the death of at least three people and the injury of 13 others. Our continent finds itself facing the murderous will of a terrorism of difficult predictability, in which an individual can strike innocent people at any time and anywhere. The institutions and political forces must identify and implement every useful tool to combat violence that is prevaricating, in order to defend and preserve the values of freedom and democracy that constitute the foundations of European coexistence. It is precisely for this reason that it is significant that, despite the dramatic events of yesterday, the European Parliament has continued its session of proceedings, demonstrating a firmness that serves as an example to all of us. I would therefore like to express to President Antonio Tajani the sentiments of deep solidarity. On behalf of my staff and the Senate of the Republic, I express the closest closeness to the families of the victims and the injured and I invite the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on draft law No 955, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteurs, Senators Riccardi and Piarulli, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Riccardi.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u6	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, the measure which this House is about to examine contains measures to combat crimes against public administration, as well as measures to prevent the crime and to ensure the transparency of political parties and movements. Preliminary information is given that the Commission has deleted the letter (r) of Article 1, paragraph 1, which had been introduced into the Chamber by the approval of an amendment by secret ballot, which deruked some conducts relating to the crime of peculatus by including them in the abuse of office. Reviewing the measure, it is composed as follows: Chapter I deals with measures to combat crimes against public administration, as well as with the limitation of crime, while Chapter II deals with measures relating to the transparency of parties and political movements. As far as the report is concerned, I shall confine myself to explaining the content of the provisions of Articles 1 to 8 of the draft law. I would therefore point out that Article 1 of the draft law provides for a series of amendments to the penal code which, in relation to crimes against public administration, aim in particular to bring the internal system into line with conventional obligations in the field of corruption, to tighten up and extend the scope of the ancillary sanctions, to increase penalties and to reformulate specific offences, to provide for collaboration as a special cause of non-perpetuality and to introduce new assumptions of ex officio procedure, as well as to make changes to the statute of limitation. In particular, the letters a) and b) of paragraph 1 abolish the necessity of the request of the Minister of Justice and the denunciation of the person offended for the prosecution of crimes of corruption and other crimes against the public administration committed abroad by an Italian or foreign national present on the national territory, through the introduction of a new paragraph to Articles 9 and 10 of the penal code. The aim of these provisions is to adapt national law to the instruments of combating corruption provided for by the Council of Europe. By rewording Article 32-c of the Criminal Code, point (c) extends the catalogue of crimes committed in damage or for the benefit of an entrepreneurial activity (or in any case in relation to it), the conviction of which results in the inability to negotiate with the public administration. To the offences already provided for in Article 32-c are added the peculate (excluding the one used), the corruption in judicial acts and the trafficking of illicit influences, as well as the crime of activities organized for the illicit trafficking of waste. As a result, point (m), by amending Article 317- bis of the Criminal Code, it supplements the catalogue of offences to which the ancillary penalty of prohibition from public offices (perpetual or temporary). Point (m) supplements the catalogue of offences to which the perpetual prohibition from public offices results. In fact, to the current offences of sin, concussion, own corruption and corruption in judicial acts, letter m) adds improper corruption; aggravated own corruption; undue induction to give or promise usefulness; corruption in person in charge of public service; active corruption; incitement to corruption; corruption in its various forms committed by members of the International Criminal Court, bodies and officials of the European Union or foreign States; trafficking in illicit influences. In addition to the indicated extension of the catalogue of offences, the duration of the temporary ancillary measure has also increased, providing for a minimum of five and a maximum of seven years in the event of imprisonment for less than two years, or where the attenuating of the particular tenuity of the offences is used. On the other hand, it is expected that the temporary ban will be between one and five years in case of cooperation, i.e. when the sentenced person has made effective efforts to prevent criminal activity from leading to further consequences, to ensure evidence of the crimes and to identify the other persons responsible, or to seize the sums or other benefits transferred. Point (d) replaces paragraph 1 of Article 158, relating to the date of expiry of the period of limitation of the offence. The novelty introduced concerns the time limit for the continuous crime, fixed on the day of termination of the continuation. Further significant changes are introduced to the rules on the suspension of the prescription. The letter e) replaces in fact paragraph 2 of article 159 of the penal code, establishing that, in addition to the hypotheses referred to in paragraph 1, the course of the prescription is suspended from the date of delivery of the judgment of first instance or from the decree of condemnation until the date of enforceability of the judgment that defines the judgment, or the date of irrevocableity of the aforementioned decree. For purposes of coordination with the new assumptions of suspension of limitation, paragraphs 3 and 4 of that Article 159 shall be repealed. Finally, letter f), - also in this case for coordination requirements with the provisions of the new paragraph 2 of article 159 - repeals paragraph 1 of article 160, which currently identifies as causes of interruption of the course of the prescription the pronunciation of the sentence or the criminal decree of condemnation. Paragraph 2 of Article 1 of the draft law in question identifies in January 1, 2020 the date of entry into force of the rules of limitation, as introduced by the novel articles 158, 159 and 160 of the penal code. Points (g) and (h) - again with a view to extending and tightening ancillary sanctions for crimes against the public administration - introduce changes in the matter of conditional suspension of the sentence. In particular, point (g) amends paragraph 4 of Article 165 of the Criminal Code concerning the obligations of the sentenced person for specific offences against the public administration that access the conditional suspension. These are provisions aimed at repeating the unduly lucrated advantage, which relate to the content of Article 322-c. The news referred to in point (g) adds to the catalog of offences referred to in the fourth paragraph of Article 165, active corruption, i.e. corruption by the private sector; it also extends the obligation of the public official (or public service officer) to pay the damage to the administration of the sum determined by way of pecuniary reparation pursuant to Article 322-c, i.e. the sum equivalent to the price or profit of the crime. On the other hand, letter h) amends Article 166 of the Criminal Code, relating to the effects of the conditional suspension of the sentence, providing that the judge, in his sentence for specific offences against the public administration, may, by way of derogation from the general rule, provide that the conditional suspension of the sentence does not extend the effects also to the ancillary penalties of the prohibition from public offices and the inability to negotiate with the public administration. Point (i) deals with the effects of rehabilitation. To this end, a seventh paragraph is added to Article 179 of the Penal Code, which, by derogating from the general rule of Article 178, provides that rehabilitation granted on the basis of the same rule of Article 179 shall have no effect on perpetual ancillary penalties; it also provides for the declaration of termination of the perpetual ancillary penalty when a period of at least seven years has elapsed and the sentenced person has given effective and constant evidence of good conduct. Point (l) supplements the first paragraph of Article 316-b of the Penal Code, adding an addition to the crime of undue perception of disbursements to the detriment of the State, where the offence is committed by a public official or a public service officer with an abuse of his or her quality or powers; in such cases, the sentence is of imprisonment from one to four years. By letter n), the penalties provided for in Article 318 of the Criminal Code against the public official for the offence of corruption for the exercise of the function are tightened: in fact, the penalty of imprisonment has increased both within the minimum limits (from one to three years) and in the maximum ones (from six to eight years), resulting in an increase in the limitation of the offence. The following point (o) extends the scope of Article 322- bis of the Criminal Code, which currently penalises corruption offences committed by members of the International Criminal Court or bodies of the European Communities and officials of the European Communities and of foreign States. The draft law, in the first paragraph, adds two new numbers extending the incriminating scope of Article 322- bis: one to be charged to non-EU officials or to those who, in international public organisations, perform functions corresponding to those of an official or public service officer; the other to members of international parliamentary assemblies or international or supranational organisations, as well as to officials of international courts. A second amendment introduced by point (o) concerns the second subparagraph of Article 322-a. The novella extends the scope of application of the provision with regard to foreign officials, eliminating the finalistic element of undue induction crimes to give or promise usefulness, active corruption and incitement to corruption. Finally, the inclusion of the content of the heading of Article 322- bis of the Criminal Code is dictated by the need for coordination with the changes introduced by point (l) to the same provision. Point (p) adds to the penal code Article 322-b.1, which states that assets other than money and financial availabilities, which are the subject of seizure in criminal proceedings relating to crimes against public administration, between Articles 314 and 320 of the criminal code, may be entrusted by the judicial authority in judicial custody, as well as to judicial police bodies which request them for their operational requirements. The forecast is modelled on the basis of the custody of assets seized in tax proceedings. Some changes have been introduced from point (q) to Article 322-c of the Criminal Code, relating to the compensation compensation resulting from convictions for crimes against the public administration. In this case, too, the obligation to pay the sum as compensation compensation is extended to the private corruptor; the reference to what was wrongly received by the public official is deleted; and it is also established that the sum to be paid by the sentenced person is equivalent to the price or profit of the crime as compensation for the public administration injured by the unlawful conduct. I'm sorry, I'm down. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u7	Don't worry, Senator Riccardi. It's a very long procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u8	RICARDI, rapporteur. Point (r) inserts in the penal code the new Article 323-b, which introduces into the legal order a special cause of non-criminality for some crimes against the public administration, in the presence of self-denunciation and collaboration with the judicial authority. In relation to these facts, characterized by an unlawful agreement, the person who: voluntarily denounces them is not punishable; he provides useful information to ensure proof of the crime and the other persons responsible. However, for the application of the case of non-perpetuality, it is also necessary for the person concerned to disclose the matter to the Commission before he is informed that investigations are carried out against him in relation to those facts and, in any event, within four months of the Commission. I'm sorry, I'm speechless. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u9	The Presidency authorizes you to hand over the remainder of the report, Senator Riccardi, so that it can be annexed to today's report. I call the rapporteur, Senator Piarulli.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u10	Mr President, Chapter II of the draft law contains new rules on the transparency and control of political parties and movements, as well as provisions on political foundations. The application of the sanctions provided for, under the new regulatory framework, is set up by the Commission for the transparency and control of the accounts, both of parties and of political movements. The Government is also delegated to the definition of a single text of the rules on the subject. Specifically, Article 9 lays down rules on transparency and control of political parties and movements. In particular, paragraph 1 provides for a limit, fixed at EUR 500 per person per year, whether it is a sum of money or a benefit or other form of patrimonial support, as a contribution to political movements or parties, or to lists and candidates mayors in municipalities with a population of more than 15.000 inhabitants. It guarantees the maximum knowledge of the relevant data, by means of a dual obligation of publicity for political parties and movements and lists and candidates for the office of mayor, who participate in the local elections in the municipalities with more than 15,000 inhabitants. The first consists in the annotation in a special register, kept at the legal seat of the party or political movement, of any form of contribution received higher, as value, at the threshold of 500 euros. The record must be made within one calendar month of the transposition of the contribution. The second obligation to advertise consists in the publication, on the relevant institutional website of the party or political movement or of the list or candidate, of the statement containing the data mentioned above. An exemption from the obligation to advertise is provided for, but the obligation to issue a receipt by the political entity using the service remains with respect to non-commercial, professional or self-employed activities of voluntary support to the organisation and initiatives of the party or political movement. Paragraph 2 expressly prohibits the persons mentioned above from receiving any form of support from foreign legal entities, whatever they may be. It also introduces the prohibition, for natural persons of age who are not registered on the electoral lists or deprived of the right to vote, of giving contributions to political parties or movements, or to lists and candidates who participate in elections in municipalities with more than 15,000 inhabitants. Paragraph 3 provides that contributions received in breach of the advertising obligations or prohibitions provided for are not repeatable and must be paid to the fund of fines. Paragraph 4 provides that no later than the fourteenth day before the conduct of any electoral competition, with the exception of municipalities below 15,000 inhabitants, political parties and movements, as well as lists presenting themselves to the administrative authorities of municipalities with a population of more than 15,000 inhabitants, are required to publish on their website the curriculum and the criminal certificate of candidates. This allows the voter easy access to information. Paragraph 5 specifies that the publication of these documents must take place at the website of the body to which the electoral consultation refers, or of the Ministry of the Interior in the case of political or European elections, at the appropriate section called: "Transparent elections." Paragraph 6 establishes an obligation to transmit reports and their annexes to the Commission for the transparency and control of political parties and movements. Article 10 intervenes, supplementing and supplementing the provisions of the previous article, with several changes to the current legislation on advertising and traceability of contributions to political parties and entities holding elective and government positions. More specifically, paragraph 1 amends in several parts the current Article 5 of Decree-Law No 149 of 2013 (abolition of public funding to parties). The amendment introduced by point (a) reduces from EUR 5,000 to EUR 500 the limit of the annual amount received as a release from the holders of elected and government posts, including the treasurers of the parties, above which there is an obligation to accompany the capital and income declaration with the indication of what was received directly or through the support committees. The letter b) of paragraph 1 deletes paragraph 3 of the current article 5 of the aforementioned decree-law no. 149 of 2013. Articles 11 and 14 contain provisions on transparency in relations between political parties, movements and foundations. In particular, Article 11 provides that transparency and reporting obligations in respect of political parties and movements shall be applied to associations, foundations and committees, the composition of whose governing bodies shall be determined in whole or in part by the resolution of political parties or movements, or whose governing bodies shall be composed in whole or in part by members of organs of political parties or movements, or by persons who have been or have been in the previous ten years members of the national or European Parliament, regional or local elected assemblies, or who have held, or have held, during the previous ten years, positions of government at national, regional or local level, or institutional positions for having been elected or appointed by virtue of their membership of political parties and movements. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator. Mr Piarulli, rapporteur. Article 13 contains the delegation to the Government to adopt, within one year from the date of entry into force of the measure, a legislative decree containing a single text for the purpose of regulatory coordination between the various provisions. Article 12 sets out the financial administrative penalties which follow from infringements of the provisions on transparency and control. The Commission is responsible for applying the penalty for transparency. The amounts collected pursuant to the sanctions will be paid to the fund of fines. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . PRESIDENT: Minority speakers, Senators Cucca, Caliendo, Dal Mas and Modena, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the minority rapporteur, Senator Cucca.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u11	Mr President, Members of the Government, fellow Senators, the Commission has approved this measure, which has been called corruption sweeping, but which objectively sweeps away much more, namely the basic principles of our judicial system. Preliminarily, it is necessary to emphasize the willingness that the Democratic Party has manifested in facing the path of this bill, with an open, constructive spirit, participating in the process of the provision both in the Chamber and in the Senate. Well, all this has taken place in a completely useless way. Once we have arrived at this branch of Parliament, the situation has also deteriorated - if possible - as the text has undergone only one modification to remedy that trap which had evidently been made by someone of the same majority, given the numbers, to strengthen the mechanism for combating the flaw; a rule which was then weakened in the text proposed by the Commission with the approval, by secret vote, of an amendment. So the only change that we have had the opportunity to see in this branch of Parliament has been to intervene in the matter of peculatousness. The debate in the Committee on Justice - it is sad to say - has been completely disrespectful of any prerogative of the opposition, with a deaf majority to any request and any comparison in the substance of the text and the most critical provisions it presents. Yet the Democratic Party, as has already been pointed out in the Commission and previously, has always had a constructive and responsible attitude because it is aware that the fight against corruption and illegality that is lurking in public administration is a necessity, an inexhaustible objective of politics in a country like ours in which the phenomenon is still sadly endemic and widespread. We did this because during the 17th parliamentary term the fight against corruption was the priority of all governments leading the Democratic Party. Think of Law No 69 of 27 May 2015 - the 2015 anti-corruption - which tightened the penalties for crimes against public administration, re-introduced the fake in the budget that had been cancelled, made conditional suspension conditional on the return of malt. Or we think about the introduction into the law of the crime of autocycling, the institution of the National Anti-corruption Authority that works well and that is equipped with the staff and resources to operate, the crime of political-mafia exchange and, last but not least, the introduction of what was basically the denunciation of the violations by subjects belonging to the public administration itself with the provision of protection from the acts of retorsion against the people who reported these facts. I have to say that this was an initiative of the opposition which, however, had found extensive cooperation on the part of the then majority, which allowed for the adoption of a text which is extremely important in our system. The text that this House is examining today raises considerable concerns about constitutional legitimacy. First of all, the dubious constitutional legitimacy of Article 1 amending several articles of the penal code cannot be ignored. On the basis of Article 166 of the Criminal Code, the provision is added that for certain offences, different from each other, the court may provide that the suspension does not extend its effects to the ancillary penalties of prohibition from public offices and the inability to negotiate with the public administration. In this respect, it is noted that the measure of the duration of the ancillary penalties which extends on a fixed basis and well beyond the duration of the main sentence clearly violates Article 3 of the Constitution, but this, of course, will be the subject of the debate that will take place during the examination of the amendments and therefore I do not intend to extend because of other things that are much more important to talk about. On the merits of the reform introduced, the introduction of the issue of limitation is also noted. Now, it is noted that the prescription is an institute of particular importance in the physiognomy of the criminal process whose substantive character has always been affirmed almost unanimously by the criminal doctrine, by the common jurisprudence and above all by the constitutional jurisprudence in that it is linked to the judgment n. 393 of 23 November 2006. The substantive nature is affirmed on the basis of some systematic and normative indices, first of all the placement of the institute, not by chance, in the penal code. Therefore the substantive nature of the prescription implies that the same falls under the principle of criminal legality referred to in Article 25, paragraph 2, of the Constitution and therefore the choices of the prescribed term on its discipline are to be understood as attracted in the orbit of the constitutional provisions, first of all, as is known, the respect of Article 111 of the Constitution that prescribes that the definitive decision intervenes in time, precisely, reasonable. Today, basically, in this way, the rights of all parties to the trial are violated. The defendant, with the introduction of this new prescription system, runs the risk of seeing a trial stretching out of proportion. The civil part, the offended part, will not be able to see its rights recognized because surely the trials will extend considerably over time because we know the state of the judicial offices. We use a system that is certainly not useful if we consider that, for the data provided to us by the Ministry itself, it turns out that about 70 percent of the trials are prescribed during the preliminary investigations. And then I have to explain whether 70% of these trials are prescribed in the course of the preliminary investigations for what it is necessary to put a deadline that suspends the prescription after the first degree process. It is an obvious uselessness and no benefit will come from it because that 70 percent of prescribed processes will continue to fall under the statute of limitations. I add a very small remark, since it is introduced in this anti-corruption measure: the crimes that are prescribed concerning crimes against the public administration are a minimal part, equivalent to about 3-4 percent of the total, a very low part. As a result, there will be no actual result. But once again this majority simply wants to make commercial measures that do not actually bring anything. Another thing would have been if a new system had been introduced, if methods had been envisaged to avoid the prescriptions, strengthening the judicial system with the provision of a sufficient number of judges that finally allows to have a full staff, a togata judiciary instead of relying as always on the honorary judiciary (as it has been happening for too long), which with great sacrifice keeps the justice system up and which is being asked to carry out a job that is no longer in condition to do. In the same way, it is said why administrative staff are not strengthened, which would immediately allow a serious response and prevent many processes from being prescribed. It is also necessary to recall what the Constitutional Court said in its recent judgment No 115 of 31 May 2018: The requirement must therefore be regarded as a substantial institution, which the legislator can modulate through a reasonable balance between the right to be forgotten and the interest in prosecuting crimes until the social alarm caused by the crime has failed................................................................................................................................. It is clear that the problem of prescription exists, but the systems to combat it only those of which I have spoken before. Moreover, the news of Article 179 of the Criminal Code, which provides that the rehabilitation granted does not affect the ancillary penalty of the ban, also appears to be of similar seriousness. These are also clearly unconstitutional measures. Mr President, I shall begin by concluding and ask you now for permission to attach the written text of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. CUCCA, minority rapporteur. Finally, I would also like to talk about the provocative agent. It has been said here that it is not a provocative agent, but an infiltrator. Read the text - we will talk about it when we come to the examination of the articles - and you will realize that it is not an infiltrated agent, but a real provocative agent. I repeat, just read the text: it is clear that it is a provocative agent. In this respect, I would also like to point out that the European directives prohibit in a very clear and firm way the use of a provocateur in crimes against the public administration. No less, this is also foreseen, insensitive to any indication that comes from Europe and our Constitution. In conclusion, Mr President, we are consciously saying that this is once again a commercial measure, with no real reformist content. We had already given a serious answer, which is working in the fight against corruption with the measures I have mentioned and which - I repeat - had been approved in the last parliamentary term with the utmost cooperation between the forces of majority and opposition. The measure we are examining - I repeat - is a violation of rules of dubious constitutionality and will probably be adopted, once again, without any serious and constructive confrontation, without any dialogue between the forces present in this House and will be approved exclusively, for the umpteenth time, with the logic of numbers alone, and this is obviously not a method that can work well in a democratic system like ours. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Caliendo.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u12	Mr President, representatives of the Government, fellow senators, we wondered whether a minority report was necessary and the response was positive, because the legislative process of this bill raises a number of problems regarding the maintenance of our democratic system. I am referring to the fact that, while we have had extensive recourse to the hearings of experts and acceptable times of discussion both in the Commission and in the Chamber, the bill comes to the Senate for the simple repeal of an amendment approved by the other branch of Parliament, with a singular interpretation of bicameralism and the possibility of deepening that the Constitution assigns to each of the Chambers. The possibility of holding hearings in this area of Parliament has been denied and the debate has recorded only interventions and amendments of the opposition, except for the repealing amendment claimed by one part of the majority, because the approved text had not been agreed by the two members of the Government. This situation poses many questions, first of all the conclusion that can be drawn from this behavior: Parliament, for the current majority, is understood as mere executor of the will of the Government, so an amendment approved with free determination of the Chamber of Deputies must be removed and as soon as possible, without any possibility of discussing and examining the other norms of the bill. Is this the bicameralism for which we fought together during the constitutional referendum? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And you, parties of the majority, had well understood what the role of each of the Chambers was and what the role of political parties was. It is perhaps useful for us in this House, Mr President, to hold a debate on the principles of our Constitution and on parliamentary democracy, which is an effect of representative democracy. On the other hand, we must consider - and this is necessary - our Rules of Procedure, which do not take account of the importance of certain articles, such as Article 1 of the draft law under discussion, which introduces several reforms of the penal code, each of which deserves much more time for consideration than that deadline. Respect for this limit and its bureaucratic application lead to a necessary consequence: citizens do not have the possibility (because they are not allowed) to fully understand not only the reasons for the minority's thesis, but also the reasons which support the norm proposed by the majority, especially if - as happened - against statistical data that would have justified at least a reflection, the silence of the majority and the absence of any comparison generate the feeling of the uselessness of parliamentary activity. The distrust of citizens in politics - and sometimes in the institutions - cannot be fueled by rules and behaviour relating to parliamentary activity. Mr President, the draft law introduces multiple amendments to substantive and procedural law, which largely conflict with the consistency and basic approach of the criminal system. The provision seems written by someone who has taken the exam as a lawyer or is also a magistrate, but who does not have the experience and competence that derive from the management of the real, which leads to having wrong rules because in contrast with the judicial system of our country. This has led to criticism - as you have seen - not only of lawyers, but also of magistrates and of all lawyers; none of those you audited in the House gave you a minimum of room for reason. In fact, it can be said that the theory of double-tracking is accepted in our country, namely an exceptional treatment reserved for crimes of particular gravity, such as mafia and terrorism, and that it is characterized by the wide use of instruments of prevention and prohibition, as well as particularly high sanctions, and one, so to speak ordinary, for which the guarantees that in the first track are compressed for social defence needs are indispensable. That crimes against the public administration, while raising a high social alarm, can be considered on the same level as crimes of a mafia or camorristic nature, is beyond any logic. There is no doubt that there is no possible comparison between mafia and terrorism, in particular because they are not comparable with such serious cases and also because the statistics confirm that the judicial investigation of crimes against public administration is more than satisfactory, with completely irrelevant prescription rates. If you want to discuss - but you are not used to doing so - on the basis of the data, you must recognize that there is no criminal activity against public administration in our country that is not persecuted. It is ridiculous, in fact, to think that corruptive phenomena are far superior to those established: it has no foundation, since there are no elements, nor symptoms that can justify the claim that corruption would be to be discovered. The law always takes into account the relevant indications of criminal cases that have been found insufficient or unfit to counter a phenomenon, or intervenes with new rules and new cases of criminal offences, when the new anti-juridical behaviour does not appear to have a criminal relevance. This did not happen. We have nothing to say that crimes against public administration are not prosecuted in our country with all the guarantees, but, at the same time, with all the harshness that those crimes need to be applied by the State. The statistical data, not invented by the minority, but provided by the Ministry of Justice, if read correctly, show not only that the prescription index of these crimes is far lower than the others (just read the data reported on "Il Sole 24 ORE" yesterday: one percent), but also that it is not true the claim that corruption is discovered late. But do you realize how ridiculous this statement is? Corruption is discovered late, but the prescription is low. If that were the case, the prescription for crimes against the public administration would be much higher, because, finding out late, there would be no time for the celebration of the trial. It must also be borne in mind that the time needed to prescribe these offences is already extremely long. You will remember that in the past legislature we have passed rules concerning the limitation of crimes against the public administration, so for some people we get to twenty-nine years. But what guarantee do you think citizens have about any possibility of a fair trial? Since 2005, after the approval of Law No 251, so-called ex-Cirielli law, which has been criticized as if it had been determined to increase the prescribed processes (and that is not true), the data provided by the Ministry show that the prescription has decreased every year. Even in some courts and offices the prescription is almost zero. If then the Minister of Justice, instead of presenting a rule that had nothing to do with this bill, had given a minimum of attention to his data, he would have understood that in some judicial offices the lack of structures and staff has determined those prescriptions that do not occur in other offices. Look, over 50 percent of Italian courts have no prescriptions. This reform will lead to the lengthening of the times of all processes, contrary to the principle of the reasonable duration of the right process (Article 111 of the Constitution). Do you realize that this is not a statement, but is it a collection based on the data provided by the Ministry? You have reached an agreement between the majority forces, bringing the prescription into force in 2020. However, it is not clear whether or not this agreement is linked to the necessary reform of the criminal process. I do not think so, because having read yesterday the part of the budget relating to justice, there has also been a decrease of 57.2 billion in justice and guess what? For the reform of the criminal trial in 2019 and for the other aggregated rules concerning, among other issues, computerization. Then there is a situation of contrast with constitutional principles as regards everything that fits the ancillary penalties. Perhaps you do not realize that it means not understanding anything about general criminal law to think that an ancillary penalty can last forever compared to the main penalty. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] On the contrary, the extinction of the main sentence leads to the maintenance of the ancillary sanction. What's the logic? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It's the logic of revenge. You follow, no more or less, the logic of those who do not believe in the principles of our Constitution, according to which each citizen, responsible and guilty of any crime, needs to be respected and have the opportunity to redeem himself. If there wasn't this chance, if there wasn't this chance for the defendant to redeem himself, I wouldn't have been a magistrate. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Mr Rizzotti (FI-BP). Bravo! CALIENDO, minority rapporteur. It is the guarantee of our country and you cannot cancel the fundamental principles that are inspired by Christian civilization. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u13	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto Tecnico Giovanni Piamarta and of the Istituto Tecnico Francesco Petrarca in Brescia, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u14	I communicate that a number of questions have been referred for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Modena to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u15	Mr President, I do not know if it will take me five minutes, because last night I set out the list of articles in the Constitution that this legislation that we are going to adopt violates, and it is Articles 111, 27, 3, 27, 41 and 49. At least six articles of the Constitution are violated, including the one relating to the right process (as has been mentioned), the one relating to the principle of equality, the one relating to the principle of guilt, the one relating to economic freedom and the one relating to the possibility of freely associating for political parties. I do not speak to the Government, because I believe that the Government does not deserve to speak from this point of view. I would like to address my colleagues from the Movimento 5 Stars and the League, who have sent this measure forward to the Commission in a sort of forced march: we approved it at 1 a.m. on a night. If you go to approve this measure today and do not block it with the question of a preliminary ruling, you will approve a regulation whereby on your personal consciences there will be families destroyed, eternal innocents waiting for a judgment, people who go to jail because they all become obstructive crimes, and there will be people, perhaps victims of judicial errors, who will never see the light. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I remind you that in twenty-five years the victims of judicial errors in our country have been 4 million [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] and, within that time frame, the State paid, only for the unjust detention, 600 million. You do this, but I remind you that you are elected people, represented by the people, who do not have the social malice that is expressed by the provision in our examination and is not protected by the measures, as Senator Caliendo recalled, relating to the budget. We are simply faced with a measure that says "you are stumbled by chance in the justice of crimes against public administration, all right, stay inside, close with the key and I don't want to know anything about you anymore." [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This undermines the principle of freedom and equality on which our country is founded. Do you think that putting in jail those who commit crimes against public administration, equalizing them to terrorists and mobsters - because that's what you do: are all crimes that become obstacles - solved the problems of a country? No, the country's problems are solved by intervening in the economy. In fact, if people are in bad condition, they are because they do not have the money to arrive at the end of the month and not because they want to see four white collars in prison. Then I can only recall the principles and articles I have quoted. You have been told in all the Chamber hearings and, in addition to that, my Group has proposed a number of improved amendments, because it has always maintained the line dictated and expressed by the Group President, reaffirming that we are a constructive opposition in any case. These were amendments made to improve the text, which is impossible. We are therefore in violation of Article 111 of the Constitution on the right process, which is being grafted into the violation of the fundamental principles of Article 3. There is in fact an absolute disproportion of the penalties envisaged. I have also said during the night sessions in the Commission that we are going to punish a mobster in the same way with cases, for example, of people convicted in third instance for being flawed. Let's think about the case of an employee of a chamber of commerce who had appropriated 2,000 euros in stamp marks in three years. I have the sentences, look at them, because this legislation is a matter of conscience. I am still referring to the case of a postal employee who has appropriated himself to 72 euros and has been sentenced to third degree per pecuato. Such cases are punished in the same way as an individual who has given birth to a mob organization. Tell me if this does not violate the principles of equality and the right process! I still remember the case of a post office manager who appropriated a booklet. Since postmen are like public officers, we also put these and the employees of the chambers of commerce in the measure, and not only the fantastic white collar that we want to see in jail because so we give vent to social evil: that's what it is. We still have the case of a chancellor who has been sentenced to third instance for being flawed because a unified contribution of EUR 35 was appropriate. Is it right that he should be condemned, but in a state based on Article 3 of the Constitution, which states equality, does it seem normal for him to be subject to the treatment laid down by law in our examination? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Does that seem normal to you? But do you have any idea what we're approving? The companies have also told you this: this legislation sinks the productive world, because it affects not only the culprit, from a personal point of view, but puts a cross over the business activity. There are companies that have jumped in our country precisely because the PMs have arranged to seize quotas and so you give them the free hand to put them down: the industrialists told you to the House with clear notes. The association that index corruption has also told you - for political parties, because there too we are going to undermine the basis of Article 49 of the Constitution - that this structured stuff is not applicable, because we do not have any legislation on lobbying. This was said by those who measure corruption, not Fiammetta Modena, a forceful convinced and Berlusconian DOC. ANAC, the Anti-Corruption Authority, has also told you that the penalty cannot be conceived as it is done in this measure, because it violates not only the principle of not guilty, but Article 27, especially as it conceives the penalty. From us, if one does not steal, they do not cut off his hands: this is Article 27. According to the draft legislation, however, if a person steals, he cuts off his hand and does not care that he embarks on a rehabilitation path. This is what violates the Constitution and this is what leads us on a path dictated by social evil and to which the whole world of law has warned you to pay attention. But you don't listen either: make tables when you are with water to the throat, with a minister calling someone from here and someone from there. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] Although the legal world has warned you that you are wrong, to remedy a stupid amendment tabled to the House, you have done this stuff here, to prove that you are a strong majority. You will have on your conscience the people who will end up under this legislation, made only to show that two leaders have the numbers in Parliament: you will have them on your conscience for the rest of your life. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u16	He asked Senator Rossomando to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in explaining the question of the preliminary ruling, the first point that arises is that none of this majority in government is denied its manifest rule. To each his own and here we are again to the manifest standards. It is particularly important to stress this when we assess the compatibility with constitutional principles and it is particularly alarming to use evocative phrases, more suitable for advertising language, such as the so-called Daspus to the corrupt, which I would like us not to get used to as legislators. We measure ourselves with constitutional compatibility and use this terminology not in a commercial, but as legislators. This is serious, especially on the part of those who have held the Constitution on other occasions, but probably put it back in the drawer, closing it in double. What, then, are the principles with which we measure ourselves? When discussing constitutional compatibility, reference is made to a system of principles, balances, reasonableness and justice (in a very broad sense), which is what the rule of law holds. The truth, then, is that this majority (it is not the first time and I fear it will not be the last) has in common the fact that it represents a different idea or perhaps a reversal of the rule of law, because I do not believe there is carelessness in these norms, but an ideology and a different idea of liberal democracies, or rather the idea that they can be overcome. This is an important point. [[Applause from the PD Group]] That is why it is important to raise the question of prejudice and to ask that we do not proceed to the examination of the measure in title, of which there was no need other than to affirm the principle of overcoming the rule of law and liberal democracy, because the rules on corruption have been approved recently and because, as has been said, for example in the matter of limitation, we are talking about crimes that today would be prescribed from a minimum of fifteen to over twenty years. So I wonder what we're talking about. Every time there is a liberal attitude, it is not by chance that the centrality and effectiveness of the process are being attacked, because when the process is expected to last, it is basically celebrating its irrelevance. There is no intervention to make the process effective. I would also like to remind the people every day that the sentences are pronounced in the name of the Italian people and this means that there is a very high moment of welding between the exercise of jurisdiction and the observance of the rules, which are legitimate in that they are respected and are in the Constitution and it is only as long as this principle is respected that the sentence is pronounced in the name of the Italian people and it is here that there is the welding of liberal democracy. I am referring to the fact that jurisdiction can be accepted by citizens because it has been exercised in this way. There is then violation of the principle of equality, because different situations are regulated in the same way, unreasonableness in an ancillary penalty sine die that is not even recovered with rehabilitation and is not covered by the conditional suspension of the sentence. When we talk about rehabilitation we mean reintegration, recovery of the sentenced person, return to the community of better people, return activities without which rehabilitation is not granted. We are therefore talking about constitutional principles and issues that concern citizens, about the re-educational purpose of the sentence. In the measure under consideration, there is an attack on the basic principles of the prison system where benefits are provided that consist of allocation to external work, premium permits, alternative measures; we are discussing the fact that a person convicted of these crimes cannot and should not return to society in terms of work and rehabilitation, rehabilitation activities. Therefore, for the umpteenth time we are faced with a manifest rule, we are faced with the idea that punishing preventing work can avoid corruption and can put someone in the public square to indicate. Here we are not at the trial: here we are at the thumb of the rites celebrated at the Colosseum. And what about the provocative agent (why this is all about)? It is a serious issue and - obviously - there is an idea of justice that does not belong to us (as I said, it does not belong to the same rule of law). This is where the undercover agent is actually a provoking agent. There is a very serious aspect, because the conducts are covered by non-penalty. When we talk about conduct in corruption offences, we refer to a necessary contest crime. We're talking about a felony that's based on bedding, an invitation to, a series of pipelines, gray areas, and invitations to break the law. Where is the principle of legality? When the words "legality" and "honesty" are pronounced, it is necessary to be clear what the principle of legality is. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Here we are completely out of the rule of law. Colleagues, when we call for more severe penalties - and we have done so - when we call for the effectiveness of decisions - and we have done so - when we call for the fact that corruption offences, of course, are scandalous and must be punished, we have the legitimacy to do so if legality is in all areas. Legality also lies in the culture of guarantees. This is the culture of legality! [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is the rule of law and these are the judgments that can be pronounced in the name of the Italian people. In fact, if celebrated according to the rules and guarantees, the process is right. Otherwise, the rules and the pact with the citizens are blown. I wonder where the legality lies in enticing and inviting people to break the law (because this is the provocative agent). To test what? An ethical level of which borders are lost, because those who represent the law invite to break it. I shall conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by representing the Government. With regard to the reasonable duration of the process, we have already said on the subject of prescription and on the override of the process with its rules and its effectiveness. The process is in fact the highest moment of public control of citizens. I repeat, when a sentence is pronounced on behalf of the Italian people, it is a moment of public and democratic control of the respect of legality. An endless trial, which damages not only those who are accused, but - above all - the victims of crime, is the transformation of the fundamental role of the State, the rules and the very purpose for which we create, modify and intervene on the crimes, in order to obtain justice, to ensure that the crimes are prosecuted and there can be effective penalties, because they are applied quickly and visible to all. For this reason, this manifest, useless, high-sounding and absolutely harmful rule for our rules must not be discussed and approved by this House. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u18	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u21	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, the Senators of the Fratelli d'Italia Group will abstain on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, because they want to enter into the substance of the measure. The bill presents serious problems: we do not hide it and, indeed, we affirm it decisively. We share many of the concerns and criticisms raised in the questions referred for a preliminary ruling and, with our amendments, we will support the need to amend the measure in order to eliminate the many aspects of unconstitutionality which it presents. But, at the same time, we believe that this branch of Parliament, the Senate, should go into the substance of the individual issues. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] , because only in this way do we render the service that we are called to carry out in this House to improve the measures that are presented and to give civil society and Italy the right response against corruption, which is a poison that destroys the relations between public administration and citizens, is a poison that destroys free competition, it is an evil that we want to help fight. However, ladies and gentlemen, we want to fight it with the right weapons, with the weapons of law and with respect for the Constitution. We do not therefore agree with the reform of the statute of limitations; we will come to this when the time comes, but we are already saying that we believe this reform of the statute of limitations is clearly unconstitutional. It violates the principle of the reasonable duration of the process laid down in Article 111 of the Constitution, violates Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, violates the same rights as those of offended persons, civil parties, who see their right to a pronunciation procrastinated to infinity, violates the right of the accused, who, until proven otherwise, must be considered not guilty and who instead are sentenced to an endless trial, which becomes the real penalty. Then there are many other reasons, which we shall be presenting in the general debate. Just as we are very concerned about the forecast referred to in Article 6 of this bill which, while calling it an undercover agent, actually introduces a real provocative agent, declaring not punishable even the prodromic and preparatory activities and even the promise of the giving of money, by the one who is no longer therefore an infiltrated agent, but is a real provocative agent. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, we shall abstain in the vote on the prejudices, not because we do not share many of the concerns expressed in the prejudices themselves, but because we have confidence, despite everything, that the Senate, when it comes to the substance of the issues, will be able to give the right answer. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u24	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will explain to you why my Group, and in particular the Senators of the Democratic Party, will ask all other colleagues to vote in favour of this preliminary constitutionality. The Constitution is constantly evoked in all your propaganda reasonings. In the last parliamentary term, the XVII, with infinite commitment and dedication we had tried to carry out a work of modification but in full respect of the Constitution, while you, so much as to say that you have resisted, in the last parliamentary term, this work of modification, now make continuous excavation, like a handkerchief with which you blow your noses, of everything that the Constitution provides. In our preliminary ruling, we try to explain, as Mrs Rossomando did before me (but I also refer to the intervention of Senator Modena in the Justice Commission), that in this text you affirm only and exclusively the logic of revenge, the logic of revenge that is inspired by social hatred, the logic of vengeance of the end penalty never, because you introduce the end penalty never in the ancillary penalties even in case of acquittal. You have used to Italy, you have used to the Italians, a part of the Italians, speaking to their belly, to an endless media pillage. And, look, it hurts to talk about newspapers, newspapers and newspapers, because you invented the media, in that crap of sacred blog in which you point people, put them to the sedan, ask that there be continuous calls ('share!','share!), exported mud and poison. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] And now you want to do it in the criminal trial. We will try not to allow this, because this is not the way to treat the Constitution, nor the highest place of constitutional guarantees, which is precisely the criminal trial. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The most serious thing you do with this text is to blow up Article 111 of the Constitution, which recalls the right process. Mr Balboni, with whom I do not share anything, said it well a moment ago, but in fact he too, in his work as a lawyer, like the one I have done for a long time, knows that when he blows the rules of the right trial, who pays first is the victim. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Leonardo]] It is the victim who awaits an answer, it is the one offended by the crime, it is the one who constituted himself a civil part, it is all those people who are certainly waiting for the conviction, but they are waiting, for example, for compensation. It is no coincidence that the majority of the trials in this country are still prescribed in the preliminary investigation phase, where very often there is not yet the constitution of a civil part, because, as our students of the first year of jurisprudence to Wisdom know, we can be constituted within the first session of the hearing or in the audience before the gup. So slap the victims, too. At this point I just have to explain to you in particular what are the articles that we consider violated. We shall vote in favour of the question referred for a preliminary ruling precisely because of the dubious constitutional legitimacy of the first article of this wicked bill, which, by amending Article 166 of the penal code, provides that, for certain offences, even different from each other, even with different conducts and with different cases, therefore with different acts of gravity, the judge may provide that the suspension shall not extend its effects to the ancillary penalties of prohibition from public offices and the inability to negotiate with public administration. That is why we shall be voting in favour of this question, because this is unfair. We will also vote in favour of the explicit, open and pronounced violation of Article 3 of the Constitution, certainly one of the most beautiful, which establishes the most sacred principle, that of equality among all citizens, and which I personally care more about when it comes to the rights of people. We shall vote in favour of the question referred for a preliminary ruling on the violation of Article 3, since the measure of the duration of the ancillary penalties which extends on a fixed basis, without graduality and well beyond the duration of the main sentence, violates this article in an open manner. We shall vote yes to the question referred for a preliminary ruling, because the automatic and indistinguishable application of the ancillary penalty, together with the absence of graduality, seems likely to undermine the constitutional principle of equality, ending up dealing equally with very different situations between them. Therefore, this provision, in our opinion, seems difficult to reconcile even with the sacred Article 27 of the Constitution, which is also violated and put underfoot, which speaks of the reeducational purpose of the sentence. Then there is another violation of the Constitution, linked to Article 111. I quote the words of the Constitutional Court in judgment no. 112 of 2018, a very recent judgment of this year, not dated, but fresh, new. The Court reiterates that the legislator is certainly entitled to introduce derogations from the general rule which he himself dictates; it remains a power of the legislator, in particular, to lay down longer limitation periods than ordinary time limits for certain offences. However - the judge of the laws in the same judgment emphasizes - the legislative discretion in this matter must always be exercised within the limits of the respect of the principle of reasonableness. The principle of reasonableness, ladies and gentlemen, is contained in Article 111 of the Constitution and requires that the final decision be taken within a reasonable time. You cannot be entered in the register referred to in Article 335 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for a simple news of crime and receive the warranty notice and then lose track of what happened, not even have the quote for a minimum collection of evidence or probative incident of your lawyer, and maybe read after six months, after one or two years that that investigation is still in progress because maybe a veil has arrived at a newspaper, by chance, enemy perhaps of that parliamentarians or that mayor. I want to open a reflection on this: be careful, because you, in your sacred blog, often point out our mayors, our regional advisors, city councilors, people who are involved in a crime that is often due, such as the citation for office abuse. Attention, because the pillory begins again because a person is nominated who has received a warranty notice, because it is believed that this can still represent the community when it has received a warranty notice, perhaps on waste rather than on public lighting or on a motorbike accident of someone who has fallen into a hole. Attention, colleagues, because, pointing to everything that can be somehow scattered with the fan mud, we will overwhelm the most important principles of our Constitution: that principle of sacred legality with you spread in words, on which you do electoral propaganda but which in these classrooms demolished every day. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u27	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, on this measure I suffer profoundly because what we have done so far only partially affects the issue. Although all the speeches of my colleagues in the minority were passionate, they seemed almost a lot of numbers: Article 3, Articles 24, 25, 27, 49, 111 of the Constitution. This measure is violating all articles on constitutional guarantees. Colleagues, we will live all this dramatically on our skin when we realize it, at the time of the execution of this unhappy and inauspicious law, which represents a wretched compromise on the skin of the country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] We will realize this, friends, when we will all understand that, beyond the slogans that are coming out these days (we are going to trial the guilty, we are all going to jail, justice must be swift, it must be fair), justice - attention, colleagues - must be above all fair. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Justice must guarantee people that they are presumed innocent until they are finally guilty; justice must guarantee. With this measure, colleagues, with these numbers, to use an expression very dear to the Government of these times, with these numbers of the Constitution violated, our life, our profession, our family, our personal relationships risk to suffer a deep rubbing in the face of a simple suspicion of trial; a procedural suspicion destined to last a whole life. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Colleagues, please, this is beyond the political debate, we are dealing with the lives of people, the flesh and blood of the country. Let us never forget this. Let us remember that we are representing the Italians. Let us remember that Constitution which we have seen criticize, sometimes, at the inauguration of the judicial years in which the magistrates challenged the fundamental text in their hands. Well, I believe that these magistrates, I believe that these lawyers, strongly influenced by political prejudice, that Constitution should begin to read it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] They should begin to understand that what is written does not apply to the size of a leopard but always applies. Colleagues, do you know what it's like to block the prescription after the first degree process? This is really the most significant theme of this wretched bill. Blocking the prescription after the sentence of first instance, be it of condemnation or absolution, means that if the prosecutor appeals you, perhaps declared innocent in first instance, continue to hang by a thread, with the sword of Damocles of justice hanging on his head. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Bonino]] Once again, ladies and gentlemen, these are not just words. Justice is that weird thing that can only be fully understood when it personally touches you. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Bonino]] The process is that strange thing that is felt as a bomb, a thermonuclear device, as Minister Giulia Bongiorno said without having reached the extreme consequences in her reasoning, only when it explodes in your living room, not in the living room of others. Friends, colleagues, President, the timing of a trial is not indifferent. We have witnessed judicial barbarism, people who have remained under trial for twenty years and then been declared innocent in neglect, in menephregism, in total indifference of the rest of the world. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups and Senator Bonino]] To approve this measure, this text would be to legitimise forever this mode. We do not need to quote the articles of the Constitution that have been violated. We all know them and we have them present, but I would like to remind all of us, colleagues, believe me without any assertiveness or arrogance, that we are all here as if we had morally and formally sworn on the Constitution that we are often violating. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Biti]] Please, let us not put ourselves in this situation again before the Italian people, the only one with whom we feel we have entered into a contract, because we do not care about government contracts. We have a single contract that counts: the contract with the Italian people. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups. Ironic comments by Senator Giarrusso]] Our only cause, the only one we really care about, the only one we think we have to answer to. We do not want to compromise downwards on constitutional guarantees, nor detours to listen to the voice of power that holds us tied to armchairs. We want to do well, we want to make sure that the recipients of these laws - that is, all of us - can be grateful to this Parliament and proud of us for doing something good that immediately impacts on the lives of citizens. Unfortunately, this is exactly the opposite of what we are doing today. We have asked the House of Deputies to be able to speak on this text, to speak on the worst parts of it. Think, ladies and gentlemen, that for the first time there has been an extraordinary alchemy, as Mr Caliendo reminded us, in his masterful minority report: it has happened that everyone, the Academy, lawyers, criminal lawyers, magistrates, all agree that we cannot change the penal code, the criminal procedure code, the order of the trial, we cannot condemn the Italian citizen to an infinite procedural life sentence. Everyone says so, even the magistrates. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups and Senator Bonino]] Everyone says that the paradoxical effect of this measure, which wants to shorten the time of justice, is that it actually extends them dramatically, because what really lengthens the time of the trial - colleagues, let us look ourselves in the eye and let us be clear - is the lengthening of the magistrates. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Some magistrates, not all of them. Look at the difference between the different prosecutors and the different courts. You know - you have told us and we have told each other - that 70 of the proceedings die from prescription during preliminary investigations. What do you mean, they're the lawyers? Minister Bonafede is curiously not present today. The father of this law has the courage to stand before this Parliament! [[Applause from the FI-BP, FdI and PD Groups]] Have the courage to ask, as I imagine, for confidence - an act of cowardice - on this measure. Have the courage to show up and explain why he, attorney, and President Conte, attorney, said that it is the lawyers who slow down the time of the trial: friends, the times of the trial in the preliminary investigation, when the lawyers were still not in a position to operate? [[Applause from Senator Dal Mas.]] Believe me, it is not a category defense, but the re-establishment of a principle of reality. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We understand for the truth and do not forget, sometimes, in this Government, to tell the truth. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Colleagues, there are many other aspects of this provision that make us afraid. The previous speakers have mentioned a number of them. Senator Modena rightly reminded us that we are talking about anti-corruption measures here, but we should remind everyone that crimes against public administration are not just corruption. Will you stop talking about labels? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Shall we explain to the Italians what we are really doing? Mr President, have I finished my time? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I gave her another minute. BERNINI (FI-BP). Thank you. Some aspects of this measure are particularly disturbing to those who, like us, have always fought for freedom and guarantees. We cannot believe that there is a person legitimated by the legal order to induce someone else to commit a crime. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Undercover agent? No, this is a provocative agent: it is a subject who, in an au pair relationship, face-to-face between two people, does everything to induce someone else to commit a crime, with the cover of impunity. And that's when President Conte himself came here to tell us: never, never, ever, will we include the provocative agent in the order. Mr President, thank you for giving me an extra minute. There would be so much, so much to say about this provision. I can assure you that, if you do not cut us off, as usual, the word in your mouth by putting trust, which, I repeat, would be a great manifestation of fear on the part of this Government [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , a government is obviously based on balances so fragile that it is afraid of itself, we will still say much to explain not so much to us, because we all know what we are voting for and we will all assume our responsibilities, but to the Italians, how much of their guarantees and how much of their rights will be removed, consumed and usurped by this wretched provision. That is why we shall vote in favour of all the questions that will be put to the vote in this House. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups and Senator Bonino. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I warn you that, pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, the requested number of senators requested a secret ballot on the question. This request cannot be accepted because Rule 93 (5) of the Rules of Procedure requires that the vote on the question referred be taken by a simultaneous vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u31	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, this is an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure which is outside the Rules of Procedure: here we want to adopt a measure which is outside the Constitution, outside the rule of law, outside civilisation and which has a profound impact on all the rights which the Rules of Procedure mention as to which subject the required number of senators must be able to request secret voting. The fact that Rule 93 (5) of the Rules of Procedure states that the vote on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling takes place by simultaneous ballot does not in any way affect the provisions of paragraph 4 of Article 113 and has nothing to do with it. The Rules also provide that certain laws, such as delegated laws, must be voted on in the same way, i.e. by simultaneous scrutiny: does it mean that if a law is made by delegation and the death penalty is established by that law, there can be no secret vote? This is unacceptable! [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] The secret vote must guarantee the freedom of conscience, when someone wants to destroy the rule of law. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] I therefore call for this matter to be re-examined and, if there is no immediate review, I call for the convening of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] Also because, Mr President, it has been made clear in the adoption of the new Rules that all precedents have been deleted. Since the Rules of Procedure are new, they change the nature of the Rules of Procedure, change the way they work and no precedent can be considered valid. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u34	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I believe that the Presidency needs to look much more closely at the issues that have been raised than the secret vote. We have already contested the Presidency's decisions on situations, albeit different ones, which, however, had some similarities. I believe that the prevalence of Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure is clear to everyone. There is an additional problem: it is now clear - as the whole of this House knows and the Presidency knows - that the majority, frightened by secret votes on this measure, has decided to put trust. It has decided to prevent a serious and in-depth debate on sensitive issues relating to citizens' rights. We can't accept that. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] We agree with the request to resume the examination of this decision, to allow us, at least on this, the secret vote, to correctly interpret the Rules of Procedure and, above all, to respect the freedom of the individual Members, who are now constantly prevented by this majority because of the fears of their divisions. [[Applause from the PD, FI-BP and FdI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u37	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, I would ask you to suspend the sitting, if possible, and to check, also with the President of the Senate (without, of course, removing his authority), whether the conditions exist, firstly, for the convening of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and, secondly, for a review of the position you have now set out. NENCINI (Misto-PSI). I wish we had Bonafede here!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u40	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, I did not want to speak, but I cannot fail to do so after the words of the President of the Forza Italia Group, whom I esteem and respect, and I have always shown that I do so. I do not think we can question the possibility and the capacity of the Senate Presidency, which today is represented by the Vice President, to take a decision independently, as from the prerogatives of those who are presiding at this time, and to ask for a suspension for who knows what kind of reasoning. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Presidency is now in a position to assess the proposals that have been made here. I would remind you that the deliberations that can be put to the secret vote must relate to objects that affect certain articles of the Constitution. Here we are talking about a preliminary ruling and the vote is not on the substance of the measure, but on the question of a preliminary ruling. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I have heard speeches calling for respect for the Constitution, the Regulations and the Rules of Procedure, and I believe that we must respect the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which is of constitutional rank here. I therefore believe that we should reject the proposals that have been made. The Presidency has given a clear answer on the substance of the question of the secret ballot, and I believe that we can proceed in this direction. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u43	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I listened to the leader Patuanelli. Evidently each of us has different opinions, but it is logical and obvious, otherwise we would all vote in the same way. However, it seems to me that Mr Malan has made a very serious request, which in my view is a reference to the content. We are at a new stage in the application of a new Regulation; the precedents have been, in some way, cancelled by an event like the new Regulation; we are faced with a situation which presents new elements. Therefore, with all due respect for the Presidency's indispensable decision, which I respect, even if I do not agree with, the request for the convening of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure is of absolute common sense. [[Applause from the PD, FI-BP and Senator Startini Groups]] When there are interpretative problems, in fact, it is clear that the President of the Senate (or those who represent him) has every interest in being assisted by an opinion of the Council for the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, although there are different views in this House, I do not see why there should be a reference to the proposal to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure: it would be a force, in my opinion, unacceptable. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u46	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, I would first of all like to make a point. You know how much I respect your role and the fact that you are proposing to chair this House, which you manage very well and which we respect. In this case, however, this is a further step, as Mr Malan pointed out, and President Casini reiterated. It is obvious, President Patuanelli, with the utmost respect for you too, that when we talk about questions of preliminary rulings it is a question of constitutional prejudiceality, so what is called into question are exactly the articles of the Constitution against which this rule, theoretically, would be put into practice. Having said that, I repeat once again our formal request to convene the Council for the Rules of Procedure, because we believe that, in the face of a question that evokes and demands freedom of conscience, the greatest freedom of expression of the autonomy of the Member of Parliament, we can only envisage an interpretation of the new Rules of Procedure of the Senate from the point of view of freedom and if this interpretation does not go de plano, but is linked to precedents that have lapsed with the entry into force of the new Rules of Procedure, the only thing that can be done, in our own interpretation, is to convene the Council for the Rules of Procedure for the interpretation to be shared. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u49	SCHIFANI (FI-BP). Mr President, we are obviously faced with a new fact, as Mr Casini said, namely the application of a new regulation, so that precedents cannot be invoked on this matter. However, I recall a concept that characterized our work as parliamentarians and also my experience as President of the Senate and as a Parent Company. The concept was to evaluate prevalence. Mr President, I should like to explain. In the interpretation of a rule or a set of articles, it must be assessed as a pre-eminent element. Now, there is no doubt that this reform touches on a sensitive issue, which is that of the freedom of the citizen and the rights of the person, and it is a subject which, article by article, postulates the possibility of a request for a secret vote. If this bill touches, as it touches, in its actuality, these principles, which are those of inviolability or inviolability, according to the sanctions and the new preceptive norms that are inserted, of the freedom of the person, then the prevalence is that of the secret vow. I do not expect from you, Mr President, because it is not in your powers, a change of mind about the refusal given just now and announced by you on the secret vote, but I believe that a possible pause for the Presidency itself to consult with President Casellati on the desirability of convening the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which is an institutional body in which all political forces are represented, is a demand for common sense. It has happened so many times in the history of our Parliament, you will remember that in the previous parliamentary term the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has met many times. This is because we are faced with a new fact on the one hand and, on the other hand, we are faced with a principle, which is that of the protection of the freedom of the person, which is macroscopically and significantly touched on by this law text, in one sense or another. On the substance, then, it will be up to us, if it is given the opportunity to examine the amendments, to say ours, but I appeal, President, to its institutional sense, to arrange for a possible suspension of the sitting so that it can consult, unless it has already done so, with the President and make a reflection on the opportunity and I would consider the need to bring the Assembly together for the Rules of Procedure. I believe that this is a request and a proposal of common sense and I hope it can be accepted. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Beginini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u50	The Presidency has taken a decision. As colleagues also know, the convening of the Board for the Rules of Procedure is the exclusive prerogative of the President of the Senate. I therefore briefly suspend the sitting in order to be able to compare myself with the President of the Senate, in order to know whether or not he intends to convene the Council for the Rules of Procedure. (The sitting was suspended at 11.23 a.m. and resumed at 1237 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u53	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I welcome the decision to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and I am prepared to take part in it. At the same time, albeit with more than half an hour's delay, our Group meeting will also take place without my presence. However, I would ask that work be resumed at 3.30 p.m. to keep the time set by the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u54	Of course. The sitting will resume at 3.30 p.m. for further work, as determined at the Conference of the Leaders. We now meet immediately with the Committee on the Rules of Procedure so that we can discuss the question of interpretation. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.39 p.m. and resumed at 3.32 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, following the requests made by some groups, I have called on the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to give an opinion on the admissibility of the secret ballot on the question referred for a preliminary ruling. In specifying that, for reasons of institutional correctness, I did not participate in the vote, I communicate that this request for an opinion was not accepted by the Council, pursuant to article 107, paragraph 1, last period, of the Regulation. As I pointed out in the debate, this issue can be dealt with again if there are proposals to amend the Rules of Procedure. Pursuant to Rule 93 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Senator Bernini and other senators (QP1) and Senator Marcucci and other senators (QP2). (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). He asked the Minister for relations with Parliament and direct democracy, Mr Fraccaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u56	Mr President, the Government submits to the Presidency, pursuant to Rule 161 (3) - 3b of the Senate Rules, the text of an amendment entirely replacing the articles of the draft law - Measures to combat crimes against public administration, as well as the limitation of the crime and the transparency of political parties and movements... [[Vivacious protests from PD and FI-BP groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u57	Let Minister Fraccaro speak! FRACCARO, Minister for Relations with Parliament and Direct Democracy. ...on which the question of trust will be raised, after obtaining the authorization of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u58	[[Live comments and vibrant protests from PD and FI-BP groups. Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u59	In accordance with Rule 161, paragraph 3-b, of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the Presidency reserves the right to evaluate the text of the amendment, in accordance with Rules 8 and 97 of the Rules of Procedure. The sitting shall be suspended until 4 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 3.37 p.m. and resumed at 4.06 p.m.) Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidency has examined the amendment tabled by the Government, which is entirely replacing draft law No 955. This proposal fully transposes the text of the Justice Commission, so the Presidency considers the amendment tabled by the Government acceptable. He asked the Minister for relations with Parliament and direct democracy, Mr Fraccaro. You have the right to do so. [[Comments from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u60	,. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of confidence in the adoption of the amendment fully replacing the articles of the draft law - Measures to combat crimes against the public administration, as well as in the matter of the limitation of crime and the transparency of political parties and movements. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u61	The Presidency takes note of the issue of confidence in the adoption of amendment 1,900, tabled by the Government, which is fully replacing the draft law at our examination, and forwards the text of the amendment to the 5th Permanent Commission, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure. I therefore call on the Conference of Group Presidents to organise the debate on the issue of trust. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 4.07 p.m. and resumed at 4.54 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u62	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the amendment to replace the text of draft law No 955. For the debate on confidence, which will be concluded today, three hours have been allocated, on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The explanations of vote will take place at 9.30 a.m. tomorrow. He's gonna follow you at 10:45, orientally.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u63	I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on Amendment 1,900, which is entirely a substitute for draft law No 955.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u64	The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the further amendment of the Government 1,900, relating to the draft law in title, transmitted by the Assembly, expresses, as far as it is within its competence, an opinion that does not preclude it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u65	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, the bill before us would like to combat corruption, modify the statute of limitations and indicate new rules on the traceability of funding to the system of political parties and movements. This measure, of which the Minister is present - at last we have the honour to speak before Minister Bonafede - has been icastically defined in the report as corrupt sweeps: someone has renamed it sweeps justice and we will explain why. You see, Minister, either you or the Government and, in any case, this majority of the change, you introduce a series of rules which, in our view, do not go. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u67	Excuse me, Senator, I would ask the senators on the side of the House to my right to lower the tone of voice, because you hear so far.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u68	Please continue, Senator Dal Mas. BY MAS (FI-BP). Thank you, President. I said that the measure does not intervene, in our view, in the right direction, that it must be a guaranteeing direction, possibly liberal, respectful of the rule of law and our Constitution. Two questions relating to the constitutional importance of the measure have been voted on today, which were not random or absolutely trivial, because the matters which you deal with acquire the umbrella of constitutional protection. You do so in a clumsy way, by providing for a tightening of the ancillary penalties against main penalties for corruption offences or crimes related to minimal public administration: two years and one day are sufficient to have a sentence to a perpetual ancillary penalty of the ban on public offices or a perpetual prohibition to contract with the public administration. If I see this in relation to the trafficking of illicit influences, Minister, any entrepreneur would be faced with a rule that provides for a lifelong ancillary punishment when the main one is an absolutely modest penalty. Where is the principle of proportionality? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Where is the principle of offense? Where is the Constitution, Mr Bonafede? Then you foresee discretion for the magistrates and this is truly a unicum. The code Rocco, explicitly, states that the suspension of the main sentence involves the suspension of the ancillary penalty, instead you introduce the possibility for the judge possibly not to suspend the ancillary penalty. This is really a prediction that goes beyond guaranteeing and even our imagination. In any case, in the matter of prescription the novelties are singular, because you prescribe the prescription and in fact, you touch an institute of a substantial nature, placed in the penal code to articles 157 et seq., which has nothing to do with the prosecution. If you wanted to affect the length of the proceedings, you would have had to affect a lot of other rules, not the institution of the prescription that is an institution to guarantee and protect citizens, to guarantee and to protect the right to be forgotten, to guarantee and to protect the State when it no longer manifests any social usefulness in the prosecution of a crime at a distance of an important period of time. Well, the Constitutional Court reminded you of these things even recently. There is a judgment of the Court of Justice of which I merely remind you of a very short passage, No 143 of 2014, according to which the limitation is linked to the general interest of no longer prosecuting the offences against which the long period of time after their commission has caused the alarm in the common conscience to fail, or greatly mitigated,... on the other hand to the right to oblivion of citizens, when the offence is not so serious as to exclude such protection. The problem is that the institute of prescription has been conceived as a hybrid, intended from the point of view of the magistrates to force the trials when these are in a state of stasis and from the other point of view, on the other side of the barricade, understood as a mechanism that, through the appeals, allows to get away with criminal responsibility. This is an absolutely distorted vision, an absolutely pervicaciously maximalist vision. I believe - indeed, I am convinced - that a part of this majority, and it is not a mystery what it is (the one that expresses the Minister of Justice at this time in this country) has a vision that is certainly not ours, which is certainly not a guarantee, a maximalist vision, a judicialist vision, a culture of suspicion and in the culture of suspicion you think of building a just system, a fair and fair trial. Well, you're doing exactly the opposite. Do you think you can intervene on the prescription by thinking of intervening in the criminal process, making the process easier? No, in fact - as our Parent Company said very well this morning - you put on the head of the suspect - accused a sword of Damocles all your life and you also do so with respect to those who consider themselves offended because those who declare or exercise civil action in criminal proceedings will have to wait endless times to obtain justice. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Therefore, since yours will not be a cause - as you have suggested - of suspension of the prescription, it is more correct to say that it will be a cause of limitation of the prescription because the dies ad quem of the suspension coincides with the irrevocability of the pronunciation of the sentence of conviction or acquiescence or in the criminal decree of conviction. That's the dies ad quem, which is why you can't talk about something that doesn't resume, so there's no suspension. In this case, too, you have made a mistake. Mr President, I would have expected those who, on every occasion, claim to be responsible for the country's change, to intervene in the criminal process in an important and significant way, but we have also seen, and will see it in the budgetary manoeuvre, that the first cuts - about 57 million - are largely intended for the reform of the criminal process. And if in fact the content of the reforms you have in mind is of this magnitude, then it is to be prayed to God that the reforms do not do them, because we are seriously concerned. Article 530 of the Criminal Procedure Code says that the judge pronounces the conviction when there is guilt beyond any reasonable doubt. Well, we have more than any reasonable doubt that this is an ill-liberal, justiceist measure and suffering from judicial psychosis. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u69	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u70	Mr President, I believe that the fact that the Government has put confidence in this measure tells you a lot about the difficulties of the majority in being together on these issues. It says a lot about the fact that trust is placed today because you are not able to stand the secret vows that were expected, as it was in the House: a sign of a division of the serious majority, worrying. Look, this is a political fact: it means that on this measure, the matter of the government contract, there is no willingness to confront, to listen even within the majority, let alone opposition. Yet both in the House and in the Senate in the discussion of these weeks we have tried to speak on the substance; we have never taken any preliminary positions. We have tried to explain why this provision in many parts of it is wrong, even harmful. In recent weeks we have approved in this House the so-called security decree, an important name that characterized the measure. We explained that for us that was a manifest law, a flag law, the flag law of the League that was to show its electorate the attention to a subject that was widely used in the electoral campaign. But we have also said that this is not a measure that will give or guarantee more security to the citizens of this country because it does not provide rules that improve the control of our cities or that better address the issue of how to protect our citizens to give them even more security. It is a law that served and serves to give some suggestions, to speak to the belly of the country; a law that in reality, to date, has produced only those damages that we had unfortunately predicted would have done. You told us that it would not happen instead there are in the street families, people who were guests in the centers and who were put in the street, who were taken away the possibility of being in the SPRAR and were put in the street. The only effect of that rule is this, and I don't think that effect falls within the objectives of the law: there is no more security today, there are more people in the street, in the cold, because this route has been chosen. Today we are debating and tomorrow we will vote with confidence on a measure which in its philosophy is not so different. This, too, is a bill with a demanding name: anti-corruption. In reality, however, it is another measure that serves part of this majority, Movimento 5 Stars, to speak to voters, not to solve and address citizens' problems. No one in this House and in this country can deny that the issue of corruption must be a priority, for any government and for any majority. Corruption is a cancer that makes it much more difficult for this country to function. It is a cancer that impoverishes him, makes it harder to do business and does not protect the public good. So, fighting corruption for us is a priority, but if we compare the laws we made in the last legislature with this legging, then we really intervened there. I would just like to remind the Minister of what has been done. Today it is said that this is the first anti-corruption law of the history of Italy, it is said that it is finally done. But I ask you: who instituted ANAC? Who has foreseen the possibility of intervening on the specifications before the tenders take place? Who gave the powers to ANAC? Who reinstated the fraud in the budget in the anti-corruption measure? Who introduced the crime of corruption? Who increased the pains for the corrupt who were really too mild? And, again, who has decided that the measures concerning the confiscation of assets should be extended to crimes against public administration and against property? All this has been done. Before we say that this is the first, the most important and the best anti-corruption law done in this country, let us remember these things, because with this measure, instead of guaranteeing the fight against corruption and the right penalty for the corrupt, with norms often clearly unconstitutional (and the Minister knows, because otherwise he would not do his job), we want to have the opportunity to make propaganda again and perhaps convene demonstrations when this law is passed. What's the point? What sense does it make to say that for a corrupt man, even if the penalty is extinguished and has been rehabilitated, the ancillary penalties remain alive? What sense does it make to explain that the corrupt, once convicted, must be excluded from the possibility of alternative penalties? What's the point of provocative agents? Why are we talking about this? Or the indiscriminate use of Trojans? The state is no longer strong if it barters freedom in the name of security, as we have said in recent weeks, nor is it stronger if it reduces freedom, guarantees and rights to give the idea of combating a crime, certainly hateful, such as corruption. Such a state is no longer strong, if anything it is more authoritarian and less liberal. What idea lies under the choice of blocking the activities of a company with the public administration, as soon as it foreshadows - only foreshadows - a news of crime? It is an idea, yours, that responds to the legitimate anger of so many people in the face of corruption, but rides it and does not solve it. Remember that increasing the culture of suspicion is the opposite of what a rule of law has to do. What is the point of intervening in this way on the prescription? She's just had a reform. Why, if not for political exploitation, do we not wait to see the results of that reform? All the more so as you say that you change the prescription, but you only let it enter into force in 2020, because by that year we think we will do a reform of justice that will solve in full all the problems that make justice too slow today. Then why not wait? Why not see the results of the reforms that have been made? It is a scam this law, in which the point is not to defend the legality, but the message you want to give to the Italians: you hate the corrupt and we, in the name of this right feeling, feel legitimate to distort the rule of law, to affect the systems of guarantees for the citizens, to show the face of a state that not only pursues the guilty, but that suspects everyone. I am addressing the whole Government: it is enough to sacrifice the principles of a democratic and liberal state, that is enough! You cannot do this to meet your party needs, to meet your propaganda. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u71	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Classical High School "Giosuè Carducci" in Cassino, in the province of Frosinone, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u72	She's enlisted to speak Senator Lonardo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u73	Mr Minister, therefore, according to your amendment, your abnormal amendment, which does not distinguish between absolute judgment and sentence, I and thousands of Italians like myself, who have come out after endless and infernal years from the judicial cage in an absolutely innocent way (and I stress, in an absolutely innocent way), we would still be prisoners. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Casolati]] of a theoretically infinite slope. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] But not only that. We would be the object of a biblical time awaiting judgment and, as happened to me and to many others, we would be, in the expectation, the object of a media ferocity, of a moralistic libor deprejudicato; we would be the object of a "Vaffa day" painful as humiliating, that its political part knows well, for having practiced it with a liar and vain intensity, but painful, ingenerously painful for those who suffered it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Colleagues of the majority, this justice is perhaps your justice, but not the one that tells our Constitution. The dramatic and aberrant amendment you have tabled is merely an irresponsible proposal for reform, which is useless as it is harmful, ineffective as it is unproductive in order to overcome the slowness of the procedure. I don't want to be irreverent, Minister, but have they ever spoken to you about a reasonable length of trial? Have they ever told you that there are rights of defendants that you regard as eternally guilty and not presumed innocent? We went with her from judicial populism to judicial intimidation. Will there be a reason why -- did you ask that? - magistrates and criminalists agree that its reform is out of place, out of measure, out of time. I mean, he's out. She brags of breaking her kidneys to the corrupt. Minister, in fact, you are merely a judicial massacre of the innocent. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It will be trivial as I say, but you are not in "bona fede"; you are in an ideological bad faith and without any judicial ethics, holding the accused hostage cynically throughout his life and I stress it all my life. I'm looking at the government desks right now to see if Minister Bongiorno's here, but he's not here, and I'm sorry about that. Even if he's not here, I'd like to ask you: did you defuse the atomic bomb in the trial? That was the language you used to demonstrate your opposition to the Bonafede amendment. Mr. Bongiorno, did you back off? What's changed? Explain it to us. Does the government contract also exceed the law, even the universal one? Does that mean the League will vote in favour? Of course he will, making himself responsible for a crime against the Constitution. Of course, you've put your trust in it, and that tells you everything. I would have hoped that this would not happen and I still hope - it is a little bit of hope, given how things have been - that those in this House still believe in what they have always believed in, the primary values of the Constitution, will rebel and vote on according to conscience, saying no to a reform that gives the creeps. But I see something impossible at this point. The government's measure is against any logic because the slowness of the processes - and I stress the slowness of the processes - is the real emergency of our justice and certainly not the prescription, which should have remained a guarantee institution and should not have been renounced. In doing so, we will have a permanent trial blackmailed by an indefinite citizen. And so, unfortunately, it will be. Given that this law will pass - because, ladies and gentlemen, it will certainly pass - there remains only one hope: I hope that the Head of State and the Constitutional Court will intervene and that they will not allow themselves to run by pretending nothing. If that is not the case, but I do not believe that we know the wisdom of President Mattarella and the rigour of the Court, we will have no other chance but to find a refuge where the freedoms are still the fundamental connotations that preside over civil life. Mr Bonafede, I conclude by reminding myself and the whole House that your leader has taken advantage of the prescription. I'm talking about Cricket. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Cirinna]] How could this happen? Explain it to us and explain it to us. He'd have to give up to be consequental. Evidently, if so, it is not credible. You're not credible. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u74	She is registered to speak Senator D'Angelo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u75	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, for decades the country has been waiting for a measure like this, and at last it is here, further proof of our commitment to honesty and legality. The draft law No 955 contains measures to combat crimes against public administration, as well as the limitation of crime and the transparency of political parties. As a custom, every important legal text is given a colloquial name that encloses its essence and communicates it in a simple way to the citizens. In this case the corrupt nickname sweeps perfectly makes the idea of the objective that this measure aims: the need to clean up and eliminate corruption from the administrative structures that constitute the backbone of our economic system. Yes, because corruption within public administration is an evil virus that poisons and weakens the economy of our country. Several studies, including that carried out by One company, have shown that the deterioration of one point in the perception index of corruption results in an annual reduction in gross domestic product of 0.39%. This means that in the last decade corruption has cost Italy EUR 100 billion. And this is just the first point on the long list of economic damage caused by corruption to our country. Corruption, in fact, drives foreign investments away, especially healthy ones, leaving the road open to unscrupulous entrepreneurs and accustomed to the use of bribes; slows down the growth of companies, because companies that operate in a corrupt environment grow on average 25% less than those operating in a legal context; distracts investment in innovation and research, removing competitiveness for companies. Finally, by extending the time of bureaucracy, it damages the efficiency of our production system. Corruption is not limited to harming our economic system; it also has a significant impact on the social fabric. This is perhaps even worse because it undermines the confidence of citizens in the state, which is no longer seen as the impartial guarantor of everyone's rights, but as a coacervo of powers for sale to the highest bidder. Those who have resources to spend on bribes have the possibility to influence the decisions of public officials, the others remain outside. And we are not just talking about sporadic and striking episodes, we are not talking about the horror of rigged procurements that produce schools that collapse on the heads of our children or of roads that crumble under our feet; we are also talking about the myriad of small episodes that dot the daily lives of millions of citizens, who now find normal to turn to the powerful in turn to find a job or receive a health benefit in decent times. But all this is not normal at all, it cannot and must not be normal. It's time to say enough. Corruption cannot and must not be the backbone of our country. This phenomenon must be fought with all our strength, using the means available to the State. The important measure in our examination does precisely this: by amending some articles of the penal code, of the civil code and of the procedure, and moreover adapting the Italian legislation to the indications that have arrived to us over the years from the Council of Europe and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) precisely in the matter of anti-corruption, it provides to the magistrates and investigators really effective tools to expel the virus from the system. The first thing to do for this to happen is to bring to light the facts of corruption. In this regard, it is essential to extend the figure of the undercover agent, already used in the fight against terrorism, drugs and organised crime, also using it in the area of corruption in the public administration. This subject will have the possibility to observe directly the negotiations between corrupt and corruptor and will provide testimony of actions that otherwise would not have the possibility to come to the surface. Belonging to the Forces of Order, the infiltrator will be able to wear the shoes of a public or private employee, who observes and reports everything to the investigators, collecting the necessary evidence to frame the corrupt. Therefore, Article 6 extends the discipline of the operations undercover to the fight against corruption, precisely because, like the crimes mentioned above, the same nourishes of omerty. Now this omerty can be effectively fought. With the amendment introduced by Article 6, no one will be sure to get away with it. In the same conceptual beehive the figure of repentance of corruption debuts. In fact, with Article 1, paragraph 6, point s), a new hypothesis of non punishableness is introduced. With the insertion of Article 323-b it will not be punished who, within four months of the commission of fact, denounces it voluntarily and gives useful and concrete indications to ensure proof of the crime and identify any other responsible. However, in order to benefit from non-criminality, the repentance of corruption will have to return the perceived utility or an equivalent amount of money. Another key tool for the fight against corruption is also the exclusion of corrupt people from public administration. Those who are convicted will have to be excluded and will therefore no longer be able to participate in public procurement. There are therefore a series of instruments that will allow the tightening of penalties and therefore the so-called corrupt sweep is understood not as a simple bill, but as a structural reform able to restore competitiveness to the country and to operate the cultural change necessary to put Italy back on the right tracks of legality. The change of course and mindset is what the Italians have asked us and what they expect from the Government of change. It's not time to be smart anymore. Let us change this distorted concept of cunning and begin to call the corrupt and corrupt by the real name: thieves. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u76	He's enlisted to speak Senator Aimi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u77	Mr President, Minister, Undersecretary Ferraresi, fellow senators, speaking on behalf of Forza Italia, I say that we are compact in defending these principles because we strongly believe in them. These principles are linked to the battles of justice and freedom that we have fought since unsuspecting times. Here we want to change a principle, which is not that it was born yesterday, that it rained from the sky or that it jumped out like Minerva from the head of Jupiter; it is a principle that has its roots in our Greek-Roman culture. Here are the friends of the classical high school; already in ancient Greece, in classical Athens there was the institute of prescription and was used for all crimes, except murder. Crimes in ancient Greece were prescribed in five years. This is something that should make this House aware of the importance of an institution that has not been placed in our system randomly. The causes of extinction of the crime, from the death of the guilty person to the remission of the complaint or even to the application of other rules, such as own amnesty, are causes of extinction of the crime and of the penalty. Forza Italia, therefore, is in defense of the prescription, because we believe it is a battle, not only of a judicial, but constitutional and, above all, cultural character. I am talking about cultural battle because I have the impression that you, Minister, have Jansenist cultural origins: as you will remember very well, Giansenio thought that man was born corrupt and bad and that somehow he should be re-educated. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Well, we don't like this kind of criminal justice; we don't like criminal justice that wants to get to these extremes. A character, who is perhaps the inspiration of this maneuver, Piercamillo Davigo, repeated that there are no innocents, they do not exist: there are only guilty yet to be discovered. Is this the philosophy behind this measure? We were the cradle of law; we risk becoming the coffin of law. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I do not even see Minister Giulia Bongiorno present today: perhaps he is afraid of the deflagration of what he called an atomic bomb within the criminal process. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] But do we realize where we are going and the serious damage that can result in the elimination of such an important institution? That we're going towards some sort of "never end of pain"? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Have you ever seen the statin in a life sentence freshman's office? It says, "I'll never hurt you." Here you get to have everything stuck after the first degree of judgment. But do you know who gets into the trial? We do not enter into the trial alone: we enter families, children, wives, parents, loved ones and there is an end to punishment never, in a still time, waiting to know what, even for the innocent, at the time when the public minister had to challenge. Minister, when you first said that there would be this reform, we thought it was a boutade, something like the chemtrails you reminded us at the beginning, during the election campaign. In my opinion, Minister, you live in a world populated by guilty people. Instead, we think that our world is populated only by human beings who need, not only understanding, but respect, especially of their neighbour. We cannot follow this drift. The Orlando reform would already have been sufficient, Minister: 18 months of suspension after the first instance and 18 months after the appeal judgment. I repeat, that would have been enough. Why, then, this discriticism towards Italians? The measure that will pass, in fact, will not only concern those who may have some problems today; it will affect everyone, it will affect the family members and all those who are involved, perhaps despite them, in criminal proceedings, who will never see the end. I'm also sure of something else. I first heard Mrs Grillina say in her speech that the time is now running out. Look, it's exactly the opposite: there's a paradoxical effect. It's exactly the opposite. The only pungolo we have, the only instrument that exists to speed up the time frame for defining a procedure is to provide for each step to be prescribed, so much so that it is an institution to safeguard another principle, that of the reasonable duration of the process, provided for in Article 111 of the Constitution. I would like to say that this article has been inserted in order to contain another article, that is, that of the mandatory prosecution. At this stage the prosecutions simply end up becoming columnists of crimes: in the end, as we have said so many times, 70% of the crimes end up extinct, not on the responsibility of the lawyers, the defendants and the suspects, but because the prosecutors of the Republic and the offices of the GIP fail to come to an end. You, Minister, have said that the age of the clever and the right-minded has ended, and this sentence, Minister, does not honour you. I have worn, like many colleagues, the toga that led to the defense of constitutional principles and values, not only of the accused, but in many cases also of the offended people, of those who ask for justice in Italy. This is something that we must also take into account, that is, the delicacy that has been given to our category. We must recognize a miracle: the miracle of "San Bonafede." Minister, with this operation you have managed to agree with all those who were in diametrically opposed positions: lawyers, magistrates, those who are legal practitioners in universities. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Therefore, if we want to launch a genuine organic reform, let us start by saying that after we have been acquitted in the first instance, we no longer have the opportunity to appeal. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Let's still say that when you enter courtrooms you don't have to call her, as lawyers do, the prosecutor and the judge, while among them they call you "you." Let us say again that this reform must go through a revision of the Supreme Council of the judiciary as regards the disciplinary section composed of the laity. This is not, therefore, a minor problem. The elimination of the prescription is a problem that will affect each of us, that must concern each of us, that must lead our intelligences to understand the importance of a negative vote on what you are doing, because so really - perhaps his colleague Bongiorno was right - you triggered a nuclear device within the criminal process. It's up to you right now to disarm him. We have done everything possible in this House with the speeches of our colleagues. Let us do so not only for a political part, but in defence in Italy, of the values that have supported our order and above all of what I said before: our Italy, the cradle of law. Let's not rape her like this, Minister. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u78	Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once it was said that the devil was lurking in detail and I will speak of a detail within the very bad bill under discussion and I will not dwell on the other points that my colleagues Mirabelli and D'Alfonso spoke very well about. The above statement is particularly true of the detail I would like to mention in the case of the draft law that we are discussing and is even more so in relation to Article 6, which extends the special cause of non-criminality provided for undercover agents to crimes against the public administration, a measure that in principle does not appear unreasonable at first reading, inspired by strengthening the actions of prevention and contrast to this type of crime. However, if we think about this case, we understand that, if you read it carefully, there is a very serious danger. I am referring, in particular, to the welding between the extension of the use of agents infiltrated to the crimes of corruption and the application of the cause of non-penalty to instrumental prodromic activities. It's not a question of goat wool, Minister. For 22 years I have served my city. I have been a city councilwoman and I have known in depth the offices of a large city and a large municipality such as that of Rome and this is not a matter to take under the table. There is an important distinction to be made: we must be very careful, ladies and gentlemen, when it is decided to prevent and repress crimes through the use of infiltrated agents. It is necessary, in fact, to keep a clear distinction between the figure of the undercover agent, who intervenes when criminal conduct is already defined and is already in place. Conducted, as my great teacher of life and freedom taught me, Franco Cordero, means done. We have it, in this particular case which specifies the principle of ne bis in idem of Article 90 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Done, but it means that that fact is already on its way, that that conduct of crime already exists. While it is very different the figure of the provocative agent, who intervenes, instead, at a very early moment compared to that conduct and to that single fact: when, in fact, the criminal conduct is not yet defined. There's the vulnus. And it is my concern, Minister, that you have dressed the toga, as I have dressed it and as many other colleagues who have exercised their function in the many Italian courts have dressed it. This situation of criminal conduct not yet defined, in fact, induces and can induce others to commit it, perhaps acting on grounds of suspicion or, worse still, of delation. Attention on this. The character of the provocateur contrasts profoundly with the elementary principle of the rule of law. I am thinking of criminal liability, which is personal. We all know by heart that we've been studying criminal law and I've been teaching it for so many years. I am talking about Article 2: criminal liability is personal. But, more generally, I am also thinking of contrasting with the role that a State confident of its capacity must play in preventing and combating crime. A serious state, Minister, prevents, represses, protects the victims of the crime and builds the conditions for the reintegration of the crime; it does not cause private citizens to commit crimes. Think about this. Consider this situation. Think of the aberrant consequences, especially where the boundary between lawful and illegal is difficult to identify, is difficult to grasp or where the higher the risk of delation is. Again, Minister, I urge you to consider the consequences of such a forecast in the administrations located in difficult and particular territories. I think of so many mayors and so many small municipalities. Really, Minister, what do you want? Do you want to turn public administration offices into a place of spies, delators, people who envy themselves and turn against each other, who instills some doubt, perhaps just because of the envy of a colleague? Attention, because this is what you do in every act you do, picking it up, but then showing it concretely: fomenting that hatred, that social resentment and that envy only perhaps because one person has arrived where another cannot or could not reach. It would have been better to confront each other. Look, Minister, I am elderly with experience in the Senate Justice Commission; I am very old with experience and I brought into that courtroom, into those walls, a very difficult law, which I have built for two years (you know that). Instead, this stuff in the Commission was an afternoon and a night. I see Mr Caliendo, Mrs Modena, my group leader Cucca; there was no discussion, there was no deepening. And now confidence falls like an ax; Minister, this is not good. It would have been better to confront each other, not to trust them. But you have put it out of fear; out of fear of the holding of your majority. It is not by chance that the banks of the League are almost all empty and there are only you, who stubbornly want this text to do yet another brainwashing, using a vocabulary that makes outrage to those who have taught for so many years in a university, like me: corrupt sweeps. What are we talking about? What are you sweeping? Minister, you, who represented the lawyer in an important forum like that of Florence, where the Italian language was born and where we washed the clothes in Arno, stop using these offensive terms for the country where the right was born. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that it would have been better, without prejudice to the extension of the use of undercover agents also in the fight against corruption, to eliminate the prodromic and instrumental activities of the commission of criminal offences, in order to allow a better demarcation of the case, keeping in place the already existing typing. This was mentioned by the Members who spoke before me: the reform made by Mr Orlando had already been sufficiently typical of it. It would have been a minimal, reasonable intervention, which we could have discussed and accepted with an amendment, from which two important principles could have benefited: both the rule of law, which for us counts much (for you perhaps less) in the balance between guarantee and legality, and the protection of fundamental rights. The vote of confidence does not allow amendments and undermines this text: a bad and unconstitutional text. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Malan]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u80	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lomuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u81	Mr President, fellow senators, members of the government, it was on 17 February 1992 when Mario Chiesa was arrested; from there began clean hands, that is, the series of investigations that brought to light a fraudulent system involving politics and entrepreneurship. From that moment Italy understood that it had a real social problem: corruption. Today, twenty-six years later, it is to say the least dramatic to realize that the situation has changed in the smallest terms. Today, twenty-six years later, with its impact on national GDP of around €10 billion a year, corruption produces even more economic damage than it did then. And, if we study the corruption phenomenon in Italy, given its close connection with the political world, it was nothing else because it is politics that gives the means to fight the phenomenon and maybe to repress it, we must necessarily ask a single and simple question: what has politics done in all these years? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Today comes the answer. Today we, with this law, demonstrate what a majority force must do, that is, the opposite of what it has done, or rather that it has not done, the politics of the last twenty years, the one that immediately after Mani clean, immediately after the massacres of the mafia, instead of having an effective system of laws to eradicate mafia and corruption, has done nothing but bring us into a worse condition than that of those nineties. This is testified by the news and economic data of a country that sees, among the obstacles to growth, precisely that the evil. The Council of Europe's recommendations and the OECD's calls were worthless. It is strange that, when it comes to applying austerity policies, Europe asks for it, but when it comes to making a serious law against corruption, Europe does not ask for it. And yet he's been asking us for a long time. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is before everyone's eyes that something does not work: we must intervene immediately. The system of corruption in our country is based on three pillars, that is: little chance that this type of crime is discovered; the very low possibility of being punished, thanks to the intervention of the prescription; the certainty of not serving the sentence even in the event of a conviction. With the bill at our exam we remove these three pillars, thanks to the use of infiltrated agents, collaborators, wiretapping and protective custody in prison. The blocking of the prescription after the first degree will give the certainty of reaching a final judgment, since no one will have more interest in returning his trial to the Greek calende, being no longer able to rely on the prescription. The higher penalties, finally, will make the possibility of not remaining unpunished real. With the bill before us we also intervene on the transparency of funding to parties, so that citizens know who finances which party. Today we put an end to what has now become a practice of spiritual and moral degeneration, of true depravity, which has devastating effects on the country's economy, not only in terms of GDP, but also on the cost of procurement and on the trend of foreign investment, which has always shown a negative sign. These effects are inexorably pouring into all other sectors, starting with work, with the escape abroad of young people, who do not see the future in a country where smart people go forward and honest citizens are penalised. I am a citizen of Lucano and Basilicata is my land. Today, with a regional council investigated for office abuse, with a suspended president, first under house arrest, today subject to a prohibition of residence in the capital of Potenza, is one of the most corrupt regions in Europe. This is the severe response given by the Quality of Government Institute of the Faculty of Political Science of the Swedish University of Gothenburg, which periodically carries out surveys on the quality of European public administration, analysing it in three respects: quality, impartiality and ( guess what?) Corruption. It is no coincidence, Mr President, that everything in Basilicata dies, from pollution to unemployment, from bad services to lack of infrastructure. The result is that my region, in ten years, has lost 10% of the population, mostly young people. That's what corruption produces. You should applaud this bill and not challenge it. In fact, everything that has been demanded by the citizens for years has been included in this measure and we should all vote for it together, majority and opposition, because its object is an ethical, moral and civilizational issue. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I shall conclude, Mr President, by reminding all Members of this House, regardless of their political color, that without legality there can never be development in the territories. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u82	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u83	"How much the penalty will be more prompt and closer to the crime committed, she will be all the more just and all the more useful." " (...) the sure means of absolving the rugged unholy (...) "is to condemn the weak innocents." Every act of authority of man to man that does not derive from the absolute necessity is tyrannical. Well, the draft law in question contradicts all three of these principles. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] because the penalty is very far from the commission of the crime, with infinite trials, the weak innocents are afflicted so much and more than the rugged scumbags, because an innocent must wait decades to have the right sentence, while the guilty one is well advised to wait: better to wait, also because, rightly, before a final sentence you cannot go to prison except for the protective measures, which should be limited as much as possible. That is why we are protecting the guilty and condemning the innocent. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Finally, the other principle: any act of authority that does not derive from absolute necessity is tyrannical. Twenty years under trial is an disproportionate penalty that many would gladly exchange for two months in prison because it is probably better to make two months in prison than twenty years under trial, with the family destroyed and - I add - the economic activities annihilated. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] How many people have been imprisoned, and then proclaimed innocent by justice - not by friends, I repeat, but by justice - have they seen their economic activities destroyed and their family broken? However, for only the fact that they have been blamed, in your view it suits them because they have done something. Then, after twenty years, it turns out that that person was innocent, but meanwhile his life is destroyed and his employees at home too, because it's right, isn't it? It is right to destroy companies on the basis of suspicion, because trials must last fifty years, because you want to pick up a few votes from people motivated by the evil and bad faith that you instill in them! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The sentences I have quoted are not of a modern guarantor; they are of Caesar Beccaria and were written more than two hundred and fifty years ago: let us make a secular leap backwards with this provision. Senator Aimi recalled that even in ancient Greece crime was prescribed in five years; there may also be very famous examples, but staying in ancient Greece, as Pericles said, we are not afraid of the discussion because we do not think that the discussion is an obstacle to the right decisions; rather we think that it is the right way to take them. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] What has happened today is that you have cut off the debate; you have prevented this House from intervening; 92 percent of the senators have been unable to do anything about this measure because it is not a member of the Commission for Justice. In any case, in this draft law there is not only the "end of prescription" ever, i.e. the sentence to the life trial, to the life sentence of the case; it is also expected the provocative agent: a monstrosity. The State, if it has reason to be, if it is at the service of citizens - as we in Forza Italia have always believed - must prevent the commission of crimes and punish them when they are committed, not provoke crimes, even through one of its agents! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] (17.58) (Malan followed). It says here. Those who do so in these garments can commit crimes and are not punishable. Read the article: It is not punishable by a series of crimes in order to induce others to do so because the State, which puts itself in God's place, wants to punish, wants to judge its heart, and not its actions! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This is blasphemy! [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Besides the principles, of which many obviously do not care, there is also the economy: not only the magistrates, lawyers, constitutionalists have expressed extremely negative judgments on this bill, but also the entrepreneurial associations, those who produce wealth, work; they read the text of the law and understand that in this country it is better to do only one thing: to close one's business and go abroad [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] because a judicial affair can happen to you, it can happen to an executive of yours, and you can do nothing because for decades the trial will go on, absolution will come when the company is decidedly dead and therefore it is better to go to other countries. I would add one element: the ex officio persecubility of corruption among individuals. In other words, it will be a magistrate who will determine whether an employee has been loyal to his company and not the owner of the same company. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] An entrepreneur will be able to see one of his managers or one of his employees condemned, even if he considers him to be very valuable, because in the opinion of the magistrate he has not been sufficiently legit. This, in addition to the trials, is a bomb under the companies. Minister, read what is written in the provision. I appreciate that you follow - which many of your colleagues do not do even when they come here - but you have to read what is written here. It must be taken into account that two or three magistrates, perhaps, are not perfect and even if they were only two or three (I remember that there were also some convictions of magistrates, even for very serious facts), well we place in the hands of each of them the life of the Italians. It is not enough for everyone else to be equanimous because when a magistrate does a damage, when he destroys the life of an innocent citizen, it is hardly necessary that the one who judges the cause next is equanimous and does things properly. That's what the prescription is for. With regard to party rules, to complete the framework, there has been total transparency and therefore total State interference. It is very inelegant that who is in power, who is in government, using this power very unscrupulously, can know of every citizen if he has been wrong, perhaps, to finance some opposition party. Good stuff! If some government did that to you, you wouldn't like to report it. This is Italy you want. An Italy where anyone can be put in prison and, above all, subjected to infinite trials, where a company has to account for others, of course it must be accountable to the law but it must also hope that no magistrate enters into its mechanisms to determine whether the such manager has done well to supply himself with this or this other supplier, otherwise he is unfaithful, therefore he must be condemned for corruption. Colleagues of the majority, unfortunately the vote of confidence has been imposed and you have not been able to express yourself. It is also clear that if you voted against this measure you would face all political consequences (I hope only political ones), for example that you would not be remanded. But I prefer to be the last of the citizens in a country where the rule of law exists and where the freedom of citizens is a supreme value that senator in a country where the rule of law is no longer there. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u84	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u85	Mr President, Minister, Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, this morning, when I spoke in the vote on the question referred by the Forza Italia and PD Groups, I announced the abstention vote of Brothers of Italy, hoping that the Government and the majority would accept our invitation to confront us on the subject; a few minutes later, the Government put its trust, showing that it had no interest in discussing the matter. This is the answer to a constructive attitude that came from an opposition party. We take note of that. Unfortunately, we also take note of another consideration. The draft law before us contains a number of measures which we share in the fight against corruption. I remember that Brothers of Italy is at the forefront of the fight against corruption that poisons the economy, free competition and the whole country. It also contains a number of measures which we also agree with regarding the transparency of parties. The House has also adopted an amendment which will from now on prohibit cooperatives from financing parties, which will be a defence for cooperatives and their autonomy. But apart from this suggestion, the majority and the government have remained deaf and have refused, first in the Commission and then in the House, to address our amendments, all of which improve the bill in our examination. In particular, they refused to address the cry of alarm that we, like other groups, have launched on this reform, indeed on this counter-reform in the matter of limitation. A dangerous reform, Minister, a reform that violates fundamental principles acquired for centuries in our legal civilization, a reform that runs contrary to the principle of the just trial referred to in Article 111 of the Constitution, which goes against Article 6 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms which establishes the right of the citizen to have a rapid and effective trial, the right of the guilty person as of the innocent, the right of the accused not to be subjected to infinite criminal proceedings. We will have the paradox, Minister, that in a few hours the Italian State will have, on the one hand, a rule that will allow to postpone to infinity the criminal proceedings and, on the other hand, a law that punishes the State if that process will last more than six years (the so-called Pinto law): a purely schizophrenic attitude that will make all the lawyers of the world crook their noses. So it is a reform that violates the basic principles of our legal civilization. In exchange for what? At least I could use it, Minister. But you know very well that reform is also useless: 70% of criminal proceedings are extinguished in the investigation - said his Ministry - and the law does not intervene on these. I'll tell you more: according to the Eurispes data published a few days ago by the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) another good 10 percent is prescribed within the judgment of first instance (we arrive at 80 percent), and on these his action does not intervene. Only 19 percent are prescribed on appeal and only 1 percent in cassation. Minister, in the light of these figures, I would urge you to reconsider your completely ingenious judgment on defenders who play a constitutionally guaranteed role in the interests of the freedom of citizens. There is no trial, there is no legal civilization without defence, unless you think that the prosecution is sufficient to have a balanced process. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] Only 1% of criminal proceedings are prescribed in cassation, and you, a legal technician, know very well that the cassation now declares 90% of appeals inadmissible, so you re-act the limitation period at the time when the time limit for appeal expires. Of the hundred referrals in the criminal trial, only 3.6 percent are for reasons related to the defender and the defendant, and in that case there is also the suspension of the prescription, while in all other cases the referrals are due to errors of the prosecutor who does not quote the texts, to impediment of the judge and a thousand other reasons that have nothing to do with the defence, Minister. Attorneys are not right, but fundamental actors in the criminal trial that deserve respect especially from those who administer justice in this country: this is the reality. You know better than me that between Rome, Naples, Turin and Venice there is 50% of all the prescriptions of Italy. The problem cannot then be solved by extending the term of limitation to infinity, but by intervening on the problems that have some determined - and well - identified on the basis of your tables - judicial offices, with more recruitments, with more judges, perhaps subtracting some ten or a few hundred judges from tasks unrelated to their function, from the Ministries and from all other matters that have nothing to do with the administration of justice; intervening on the discipline of notifications; extending the operation of the legislation relating to the extinction of the crime for remedial conducts, as happens today only before the judge of peace; increasing the decriminalization; increasing the proceedings punished to sue. I would just like to give an example: how is it possible that telephone harassment should still be prosecuted in Italy today? This is something I honestly miss. And it is not true, Minister, that extending indefinitely, or even eliminating the prescription after the judgment at first instance, serves to punish crimes against the public administration. That is not true, and your tables tell us this: as soon as 1% of crimes against public administration end up prescribed in the course of the trial. And it could not be otherwise; I also tell the colleague of the Movimento 5 Stars who intervened earlier. But do you realize that, even as a result of the Orlando reform, it takes sixteen years to prescribe the flawed? And that, because of the last paragraph of Article 161 of the Criminal Code, do we still need fifteen or eighteen more to prescribe corruption? It takes eighteen years to prescribe the concussion. It takes more than ten years to prescribe an apartment theft. What are we talking about? [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP Group]] If justice fails to respond in a lifetime, you think of solving the problem by eliminating the prescription, which is an elementary principle of law and justice that exists from ancient Greece, as Mr Aimi rightly pointed out. To the friends of the League, strangely silent in this debate, I would like to ask just one question: how is it possible that the nuclear bomb in one night turned into a carnival firecracker? How is it possible that the nuclear bomb that was to deflagrate within the criminal trial, according to the exact words of Minister Bongiorno, in one night turned into a firecracker? [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] In fact, not even in a firecracker anymore, given your silence, but in a flatus voices and nothing more. That is why, dear Minister, we are not, as we are not, on what you are proposing in the matter of infiltrated agents, because it is not an infiltrated agent. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Balboni. Balboni (FdI). If you wanted to extend to crimes against the public administration the discipline of the infiltrated agent was enough to make a very simple rule saying that what is true today against the mafia and against sexual crimes is also extended to those crimes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Balboni. It's the 11th minute. Balboni (FdI). I'll finish. No, you have made a change by turning the provocative agent into an infiltrator, and this - you know it - is against every elementary rule of law. [[Applause from the FdI and Fi-BP Groups]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u86	Mr President, Minister, Mr Scot Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished senators, I would like to address a point to which I am very attached, which is precisely the figure of the undercover agent who has been mentioned in this debate several times, in my view, in an entirely inappropriate way. She has been described as being a Martian who lands in our order as a provocative agent: they have heard it from the benches of the right, as well as from the colleagues of the Democratic Party. Well, I think that this statement is easy to forget, simply by analyzing the text that we are going to vote on. There will be those who will vote in favour, with the issue of trust, and those who will vote against it. The specific inclusion of crimes against public administration in the cases referred to in Article 9 of Law No 146 of 2006, which has been accompanying us for twelve years. Therefore, the figure of the undercover agent is well known and experienced for all the crimes for which it is now operational: narcotics, terrorism, arms trafficking, prostitution and child pornography. Now this Government and this majority will have the courage to extend to crimes against the public administration this figure, long awaited in our order and for which I personally - I mean with pride - have spent together with colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars during the last legislature, signing at my first signature the bill that tried to promote it already a few years ago. Today I see with satisfaction that it is about to become a reality. Why is he not a provocative agent, ladies and gentlemen of the right and the so-called left, who still points to this figure as a dangerous subversion to the principles of the rule of law? First of all, because there is a pedissequa indication of the incriminating rules of crimes against the public administration. Moreover, since no one has said so, I would like to point out - also with satisfaction in this case - that the undercover agent can also be used for crimes of considerable importance, such as extortion, kidnapping and usury; to me this too seems to be a measure to be appreciated and encouraged. He is not a provocative agent because, in line with the statues of the European Court of Human Rights, as well as those of our own Supreme Court, the conducts, listed at the end of Article 6 of the original draft law (today I see that the rule is contained in Article 8 of the maxi amendment on which the question of trust has been raised), that judicial police officers may hold, for the purpose of acquiring evidence in relation to certain crimes, are so specified: to pay money or other utility in execution of an unlawful agreement already concluded by others (it is clear); to promise or give money or other utility required (required) by an official or a person in charge of a public service or solicited as the price of unlawful mediation to an official or a person in charge of a public service or to pay it; or to perform prodromic and instrumental activities. In short, the conduct that complements those already listed in Article 9 of Law No 146 of 2006 can only refer to the new figure of the undercover agent for crimes against the public administration and not to those of the agent who tries to corrupt the public officer; in fact, as is precisely indicated, the illicit agreement must have already been concluded by others, therefore no crime is provoked. The solicitation from the official must already have been formulated. If this were not the case, in any case, if this figure as an undercover agent were to move to activities and conduct which were not precisely included in the legislative novel, it would obviously not be covered by non-criminality and would pay for any consequence. Therefore, in my view, any fear of having a figure introduced into our order must certainly be carefully evaluated and precisely avoided by the article contained in the bill. In conclusion, I would point out that the case law of the European Court of Human Rights itself has specified that the task of the undercover agent is to unveil an already existing criminal intention. In fact, if the undercover agent were to detect conduct or conduct of a corrupt nature, he would be faced with an investigator who is already ready to commit the violation, even in the absence of the same intervention as the police officer in charge of this type of activity. Therefore, please, let us clear the field once and for all from the hypothesis that the provocative agent is being introduced here; this is not the provocative agent, that could do much more and probably it is good that this figure does not enter into service in our country, for a series of considerations of which I share the fears, because expressed with intellectual honesty, that come from the opposition. I, too, gentlemen, wear a robe and I am sufficiently aware that we are going to touch a very delicate subject, which concerns the activities of the judiciary, the police forces, the right of defence; all sacrosanct and respectful, but, in my view, it is affecting the matter with appropriate and ( needless to say) necessary modalities, given the state of fact that our country is reduced because of the corrupting phenomenon. It is worth remembering that, in addition to the other provisions that increase the penalties (I see that Article 318 will contain a maximum sentence of eight years) even in the minimum, these are certainly useful measures. Even before my 5 Star Movimento colleagues went to the government, when we were opposed and received the most thoughtful and wise inputs on the need to act to counter the corruptive phenomenon, we already knew at that moment that it was not only with the increase of the penalties that could be defeated and faced the phenomenon but also with the use of tools that facilitated its emergence, because the real problem - as we know - is that, given the particular character of the corruptive phenomenon that sees the two parties mutually interested in not bringing out the criminal activity. That's why the undercover agent is a necessary figure in our order; that's why the extension of the so-called - I have never particularly loved the expression, but it makes the idea well and we know it well - Daspo for the corrupt, that is the extension of the cases of ban following final sentence, is another probably useful; that's why I find reasonableness in the text with reference to this figure. I would also like to say another word on a subject that I do not think has raised particular attention to, but it has aroused it in me, perhaps because it concerns the land from which I come, the Salento, concerned by a delicate and even a little painful issue that has to do with a pipeline, which seems to be about to land there. Article 1 (o) amends Article 322- bis of the Criminal Code by extending the sanctionability for corruption offences - this is the novelty - also to members of international parliamentary assemblies or international and supranational organisations, as well as to officials of international courts. Why is this rule important, which also extends the criminality of corruption to members of international parliamentary assemblies? The recent judicial report has seen or seen a former Member involved in corruption. I know he's been acquitted for the money laundering crime; I don't know if it's for corruption. The procedure has already been completed. I am talking about Mr Luca Volontè, a member of the Council of Europe, and about the matter of possible corruptive financing from a foreign country indirectly concerned with the implementation of the TAP infrastructure. The Milan Public Prosecutor took an interest in the case and the gup raised the question of the insindicability and immunity for the conduct of that Member under the well-known Article 68 of the Constitution. The ruling was overturned later by the Court of Cassation, which said that, if it is true that one cannot be prosecuted for the opinions and votes expressed in the exercise of his parliamentary mandate, this immunity cannot be extended until the corruptive fact itself. The vote in that case was taken by the Council of Europe to prevent Azerbaijan from receiving a motion of condemnation for human rights violations and this would have had consequences beyond the scope of today's debate, but in that case the sponsoring consortium could not have drawn from the financing of the European Investment Bank in the event of a conviction for human rights violations. Probably if this rule had already existed a few years ago it would not have been long for the national jurisdiction - the Court of Cassation in this case - to decide also for the member of a Parliamentary Assembly of an international body. In that case the principle was valid for the Council of Europe, but I imagine it also applies to the parliamentary assemblies of the OECD and other parliamentary bodies. Clearly, that rule will mean that the indisputability and the sacrosanct shield of Members' freedom of opinion and vote will not be extended even when that vote has been the fruit of and the subject of corruption. For this reason, although in general discussion, but not being able to speak tomorrow in the explanation of vote, I have already advanced my vote in favour of the question of trust that the Government has put. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u87	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u88	Mr President, Minister, good afternoon. I have the feeling, but maybe it's something more, that probably all of us, or many of us, are getting turbulent by the finger when the moon's behind it. I understand this, Minister, and I take note of your point of view, which I obviously do not agree with. Already the announcement of the vote by my previous colleague shows me that I am well on the other side: these are important signs that sometimes appear in this House too plastically. You're showing your finger, but the moon's behind it. I say this because of your concept of justice and the approach to the same that you have in mind, of how it applies and lives; moreover, probably preaching well, but rocketing badly. It comes to mind, in fact, that if Minister Di Maio had been Regional Councillor with the question of reimbursements, he would have been investigated four times already. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] As for the provocative or undercover agent, in my opinion you have already done an experiment; when you sent lawyer Lanzalone around Italy, first in Livorno and then in that of Rome, you probably did a test to see what would happen. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] On 5 March, however, it seems to me that there will be criminal proceedings. That is your point of view; you want to have full control, as you do on your parliamentary groups. No one can move an arm because otherwise it is punished or thrown out; no one can have a different opinion. You would like the entire national system, citizens and businesses to be somehow blocked with the precise imprint that you want to give to Italian justice. I don't speak out of hearsay. We've heard of lawyers, lawyers and academics. I've been a professional defendant for 15 and a half years, almost sixteen. I was picked up on the morning of January 31, 2006 at home, in front of my children; I was arrested and spent thirty-nine days in prison. As if that weren't enough, I even made 120 days of house arrest, investigated for 51 crimes. All this because I was the mayor. Probably the 5 Star Movement doesn't have this problem, but the other groups that have the administrators around know perfectly well that an abuse of office is not denied to anyone. Well they arrested me one morning, I stayed on trial for fifteen years and then acquitted and then for a prescribed crime I refused the prescription and was acquitted in cassation. So on the matter of prescription I don't want to spend time because someone did it before me. After this, I realized that the problem of justice is not a prescription, Minister. The problem of justice is not solved by you either this time. You want to set an example by making a whole series of measures related to security, dignity, concreteness, talking about corrupt sweeps and using high-sounding titles. But look at the citizens screwing them once and then not anymore. They realize that when these measures go on, they bring nothing home, nothing but talk and talk. The only problem is justice. The only problem is this: you don't solve the issues; you don't give new buildings to the courts, you don't give new machines to the judicial police rates. You said in the budget law that every minister - from that of the public administration to that of the internal and that of the justice - spends 500-600 million euros on recruitment. Then we go to see the budget law - apart from the fact that we do not yet know what budget law there will be, because it will be an unknown to which we will find an answer in the coming week - and all this does not manifest itself. You see, then, the speech of the prescription, of the undercover provocative agent, of the government contract: slowly it thins the fog and the problem comes out because in your mind - I repeat, legitimately from your point of view, but we must oppose with all our strength - you want to keep in trial those who annoy you. In the government contract you then wrote - and it makes me look like the friends of the League, whom I know well, signed it - that if you're investigated by any chance or if you happen to know that there might be an investigation, you can't even be part of the government. But where do you live? (Senator Mallegni addresses the Senators of the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.) I am speaking with you, even if it is not possible by the Rules of Procedure. But you're sending these guys home? These guys are ruining the country. These guys want to see us all in jail! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u89	Senator Mallegni, speak to the Presidency; don't turn that way, she gets a stiff neck.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u90	MALLEGNI (FI-BP). I beg your pardon, President. These guys would like to arrest us all and throw away the key. If they could then draw lots in Parliament who they want - as they said - they would probably do so! Then you must unplug them because, as long as they talk about things, it's okay; but when they talk about freedom, when they pick you up at home at 6.30 a.m., then you explain it to them to your employees, your children, your wife, your relatives, your father or your mother that you didn't do anything. You tell him who you're around that you're an honest, decent person. You do not want this: you are against freedom, you are against these things. Look, however, that it is not good, since the Democratic Party has already tried with Silvio Berlusconi and I think the results have not been exceptional. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The gentleman who arrested me - and I close - Mr. Matteo Renzi even put him in the government to act as State Secretary, because he made preventive imprisonment a career and we must forbid these things. The magistrate is the magistrate, because 99 percent of the magistrates are serious people; but there was someone who repeatedly entered and left politics and these things are not done. Minister, in view of his role, I say to you: check well what happens throughout the country and check well if who has been Undersecretary or Minister in previous governments today has returned to be the magistrate in the district where he has arrested people! Since then she is from Florence - and we have already understood her - she plays her role as controller. Aren't you the Guardasigilli? Don't just look at those; look at what happens in this country, look at what happens in families and businesses, which are crushed not by magistrates who do not do their job but by a justice that does not have the tools to move forward and the first instrument must give it to him by politics. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u91	She is registered to speak Senator Evangelista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, members of the Government, Minister, today we are called to express our confidence in regulatory intervention, the draft anti-corruption law, of which we feel the exceptional scope, because it concretely translates the commitment, first of all moral, made to the Italians by this Parliament, to finally break down the appalling phenomenon of corruption, putting in place a coordinated action that extends astray, capable of affecting the phenomenon both in the public and in the private sector, because corruption is a dishonest practice of life that affects, limiting it, freedom and the rights of the Italians. The previous governments have given us a country sadly known for the incidence that this monstrum has in everyday life; just think that Italy is placed in 54th place in the world in 180 countries and 25th in 31 European countries. But it would be enough to read the data of the National Anti-Corruption Authority and those provided by the Observatory on corruption in the public administration or simply open any daily newspaper, even of local news, as I did the other day in my province, Nuoro, to read that 15 referrals have been requested in court for mayors and professionals, all accused of having tried a system of mischief that piloted public works and designs, guaranteeing parcels to professionals and votes to politicians. It is from this premise that, through amendments to the penal code and criminal procedure, to the civil code and to some special laws, we intend to strengthen the activity of prevention, detection and repression of crimes against the public administration, so that it is clear to everyone that those who are wrong pay and will no longer be able to work with the public administration. With the measure in question, in fact, the list of crimes to which the sentence follows the inability to negotiate with the public administration and the perpetual ban from the public offices (the definitive "Daspo" therefore) for those who are sentenced to a sentence greater than two years of imprisonment, except the effects of rehabilitation, but only after twelve years; there is no discount, not even for those who choose to settle or obtain the conditional suspension of the sentence. There is also provision for a tightening of penalties on the part of the public officer or a public service officer who acts with abuse of his quality and his powers, because those who get corrupt must be severely punished, just as those who corrupt. Administrative sanctions are also provided for a duration of not less than five years for companies that will be involved in crimes against the public administration and stop also to the choreographers, simple millers who will be punished for the crime of trafficking of illicit influences. Corruption must be severely punished even in the least serious cases, because it is a phenomenon that affects the healthy part of civil society, even with secondary effects, ruining competition between businesses, damaging the economy, the meritocracy of citizens. Those who err must pay, but in the presence of a self-denunciation or effective cooperation with the judicial authority is recognized, for some crimes, a special cause of non-penalty provided that prior to investigations useful indications are provided to ensure proof of the crime and to identify the other persons responsible, to make available what is perceived, to provide useful elements to identify the beneficiary of the profit. The use of interceptions for crimes against the public administration is also extended, recognized as an effective means of discovering criminal activity. Corruption among private individuals is also a regrettable phenomenon. It is therefore expected that the crime of corruption between private individuals and that of incitement to corruption will be processable of its own motion. However, the biggest problem remains to ascertain the facts of corruption; for this reason we have identified a valid instrument in the extension of the discipline of undercover police operations and special investigative techniques, already foreseen for very serious crimes by Law No 146 of 2006, all extended to criminal cases that constitute corruption. The same prediction of this figure can be an effective deterrent to the commission of the crime by those who do not want to take the risk of being checked and discovered. The bill still provides that inmates for corruption offences cannot access the premium benefits when executing the sentence, unless they cooperate with justice, as well as inmates for Mafia crimes. In fact, we can no longer hide the fact that the two phenomena are connected: the Mafia is now mainly concerned with concluding its affairs in the field of public procurement. I shall conclude, Mr President, by reminding the PD that it is not true that we did not have a cooperative attitude in the Commission. However, I wonder how we can cooperate with a political force that only in 2016 had signed an amendment according to which the limitation ceased to operate after the judgment of first instance, an amendment that the Movimento 5 Stars would have wanted to vote, while now contests the entire installation of this law. As for Forza Italia, on the other hand, I can only smile and remind my fellow senators that prescription does not mean impunity: it does not mean impunity for the illicit financing of parties, for the sale of senators, for the false in the budget at the time, for the misappropriation. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that this measure, as well as its structure, is a challenge to all forms of abuse of power directed against the general public interest. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u93	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u94	Mr President, many of my colleagues have already spoken on a number of points, but I want to go back to pointing out some of them, then reflecting on the use of a vote of confidence and, therefore, also on the explanatory statement that leads us to not vote for trust. Someone's already mentioned this undercover agent thing. I want to make it clear, also to colleagues who make unnecessary controversy, that Forza Italia wants there to be anti-corruption rules, but true rules. For example, I have seen - and I also say this to the Democratic Party, which established it - that the anti-corruption authority has sometimes been a cause for slowing down and confusion, because it is not clear what role it plays, it overlaps with the ordinary judiciary and makes Manzoni's cries. In the end, too much slap and intent, assuming they were noble, were not achieved. Well, with regard to this undercover agent, I'm also a bit of a laugh, because those who now want the undercover agent are the same ones who put General Mori to shame because they searched for news to arrest Totò Riina! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And where was he looking for them? On the news or at the bar? He was looking for them from those who could give them to him and Mori was right: he was acquitted many times and once condemned. So, now, you, who are the same, you and your newspapers attacking figures that we consider to be absolutely integrity, have little to say. [[Comments of Senator Marco Pellegrini.]] You have introduced this figure, which we will see, if there is, what risks it will lead to, because one thing is to fight corruption and another to set up figures that risk inciting crimes. Politics, for goodness sake, is corroded by the phenomena of corruption, but this is also the case for magistrates and police forces: alas, the virus is spread everywhere, in more or less high percentages and who knows if then someone will not be tempted by an undercover agent and by some occasion, to muddy this or that. As far as the limitation is concerned, I am going to read literally Article 111 of the Constitution, which has also been mentioned today, when we tried to vote on the preliminary questions which deserved the secret vote for respect for the conscience of Members of Parliament, but that was not possible. Article 111 of the Constitution reads as follows: The jurisdiction is carried out through the right process governed by law. Each trial shall take place in the context of a dispute between the parties, on a level playing field, before a third and impartial court. The law ensures its reasonable duration. You will remember, Mr Calderoli, because we were already in Parliament when this debate on the right process and the change of the Constitution took place. It was an important debate. Today, as many colleagues have said, this constitutional principle is being trampled on, because this process will last forever. On the contrary, government promoters are not even aware of it, so it is useless to turn to them, but this law will make the trials eternal, because when the prescription is abolished, it remains the same judiciary that let 70% of the trials evaporate during the investigation phase, because, as President Bernini said today and as Senator Balboni said, it is at that investigative stage that many times the slowness of the magistrates evaporates the trials. Well, by extending the limitation periods to infinity, there will be a never-ending end of these procedures. And - I want to add another element of reflection - who will make up for it? Not only those who must be tried: the innocent even more, because they will have to wait who knows when, but also the citizens, because the immediate condemnation of the culprit is also a refreshment of the popular conscience. A conviction of a guilty person who arrives after ten or twenty years does not compensate those citizens who want effective justice. But do you know, Mr. President, who loses? The victims of crime, because with the trial that never ends, they will never be compensated! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This is what you do with this law! Punish the victims of the crimes because, when this sentence never comes, they will have neither the moral satisfaction of a conviction nor the collateral aspects that sometimes exist. So we feel that this provision is absolutely wrong. The fight against corruption must instead be done by making the processes faster, yes. With this measure - it must be said to the citizens - you will have the opposite effect, because I believe that the processes will last even longer. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In the judiciary there were great heroes, but there are also many people who could work more. Go a few afternoons to a prosecutor's office or a courthouse: you will find a desert, most of the time. You work more in those places, to do the processes quickly. This is what is needed for exemplary justice and an effective fight against corruption. Therefore, we dispute from the roots the measure under consideration, because it will have the opposite effects. You use slogans and titles. We will not vote for confidence for a number of other reasons, ladies and gentlemen, because you have the titles, as someone has already said. The Dignity Decree: How does one vote against the Dignity Decree? He must be unworthy. Then it turned out that the Dignity Decree wiped out jobs, 26 every hour. You're the Attila of politics! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] As someone said, instead of one being worth one, anno is worth anno; this applies to you as a qualification. You destroyed 26 jobs every hour of the day and night, including Sundays. So the decree of dignity is a disaster. Yesterday the representatives of the categories, in the meeting with the representatives of the government, told you to review and delete it and that a title is not enough. The other decree of Minister Bongiorno - I don't know what it was called - established a nucleus of people who should control concreteness. Now 50 people have to check the concreteness of the other 50,000: another clown. Ask this Parliament for confidence for a very clear reason. Do you know why? In the House Parliament had amended the measure on a very delicate point: the peculate. And then, since some of the majority did not like that modification, born within the same majority, you put on your own gag to censor that provision. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You have done this: you have changed that rule, you have put your trust in it and you have prevented the secret vote on the question referred. Trust was put at the beginning of the general discussion; I know there are precedents, but they are not previous nobles. Whoever did it in the past, whoever did it, hurt. Today you have stifled the debate on the change of a fundamental principle of law: limitation. You must be ashamed to alter the fundamental principles of the Constitution with gag. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We do not vote for you because you are cheating the Italians. We are going to discuss economic maneuvering. I have just read that the amendments will come on Saturday. Meanwhile, the ecotax is - and I say this to my colleagues in the League - because in the House you voted for trust with the Pandine tax. Undersecretary Castelli doesn't even know what size they have: he said to buy those with 1,000 of displacement, instead of 1,200. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You laugh at the poor, who happen to have an old Panda and have to pay who knows how much. You destroyed and dismantled the Armed Forces - nothing but security. There's no money for proper hiring in the police force. The Armed Forces - we denounced it today in the Defence Commission - are languishing and are reduced without resources in the budget. And we'll see, after Conte's return from the meetings with Juncker, what other cuts that sector will suffer. You have taxed the house more: you have extended the Tasi on the house and have not introduced clearly the dry coupon for commercial rentals. You invented a fake citizenship income. Durigon has arrived: he retires first, but cutting pensions. Tell people you'll cut pensions, dear government gentlemen. Unemployment has grown, the TAV is not done and 50 amendments will come: a real disaster. When the measure is approved tomorrow, you will go out of this Palace with yellow balloons, you of the 5 Stars, to say, "Honestness, honesty." I propose an amendment: tell Giggino Di Maio that the slogan is as follows: "Honestness, honesty, but it doesn't apply to Dad." Scream the slogan, in a more correct way. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments of Senator Lanzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u95	He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not surprised that in this House the name of a 12-year-old sentenced person for very serious events is pronounced with unlimited arrogance and protection. We must remember that General Mori was condemned by a court of assizes in Palermo at the age of twelve, for serious facts. It is sub-iudice, but the facts of which he is accused would suggest, at least in these classrooms, to have caution when it comes to Mori, a lot of caution. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Mr Rizzotti (FI-BP). Shut up! Shame on you! GIARRUSSO (M5S). The accusation is that while the servants of the State, who made the history of our country, shed their blood, others "came under" - as the mobsters said - and went to treat the salvation of their political associates, who were on Totò Riina's death list. That's what they did! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Gasparri (FI-BP). They arrested Totò Riina! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gasparri, please. Gasparri (FI-BP). They arrested Totò Riina, say it! He didn't arrest himself. GIARRUSSO (M5S). So I am not surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that this name is now being made by these people in this House, speaking of limitation, because one of those who founded that party is still serving a seven-year sentence for the mob. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] And the other, Mr. Berlusconi... Murderer! Murderer! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Rizzotti, last time I forgave. This time go for a ride, if you can't contain yourself. Have a seat, Senator. GIARRUSSO (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. The other gentleman, founder and leader of that party for more than twenty years... RIZZOTTI (FI-BP). But can you hear stuff like that? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Rizzotti, the Censorship and the Expello from the Chamber. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] ... is the most prescribed man in Italy. It is true that there is a relationship between trial and prescription, but it is a sick relationship that has its roots in our country's 20 years of bad governance. We therefore understand why we have seen in this House the party's own insistence on the prescription and the modification we have made, because it meets the demand for justice of the citizens of this country, who can no longer see any faults prescribed. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Some Senators of the FI-BP Group leave the Chamber]] VALENT (PD). Shame on you! What are you talking about? GIARRUSSO (M5S). Let's remember what the prescription is. I'll remind you. From the penal code, it is the renunciation of the state to assert its punitive claim in view of the time spent by the commission of the crime. VALENT (PD). You're incapable! GIARRUSSO (M5S). All the words used to define the enemy prescription of those who are innocent are out of place. We're talking about a crime and a punitive claim that fails. The prescription is the defeat of the rule of law! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That's the prescription. VALENT (PD). Do you realize what you're saying? GIARRUSSO (M5S). I'm not surprised that the PD gets upset when it comes to Daspos for politicians. VALENT (PD). Don't be surprised. We do it proudly. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] The Daspus is good for the violent of the stadium, for the poor people, but for the white collars you don't like it! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then we have to say... [[Senator Valente's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u97	Senator Valente, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u98	GIARRUSSO (M5S). We have to tell her loud and clear that our idea of justice is not yours! VALENT (PD). Definitely not. GIARRUSSO (M5S). When we go to prisons and see only mobsters and poor Christians and not white collars that have devastated our country - we don't see where they should be - we understand that we have to come back here and make laws like the one we are approving today to send them to jail. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] VALENT (PD). You don't know what the rule of law is. GIARRUSSO (M5S). I understand, ladies and gentlemen, that the undercover agent scares you. It scares you! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] VALENT (PD). How dare you! GIARRUSSO (M5S). But the undercover agent doesn't scare us and our administrators. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Valente, would you like to escort Senator Rizzotti out? Even as a couple, if you like. Don't worry. Conclude, Senator Giarrusso. GIARRUSSO (M5S). I shall conclude, Mr President. We don't fear the undercover agent, as my colleagues have explained well, because it serves to strike the corrupt who sit where they shouldn't be and ruin our country. We give our administrations back to decent people. [[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]] And we'll do it with these rules. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]] Gasparri (FI-BP). Even in Corleone, without relatives of Provenzano. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gasparri, don't worry. He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alfonso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u99	Mr President, I would have liked a moment of more genuineness to address the delicacy of this issue, aware - as I am - that I have been a user of justice. I am neither an attorney nor a magistrate, but I was a user who knew and suffered the initial phase of the judicial charge - and so I saw the staves at work - and that I was then able to measure and know the phase of the sentence, of the judgment, which allowed me the full, integral recovery of my active citizenship. I've studied much and for a long time what justice is when it works, and how justice looks when it doesn't work. There is an image that helps us much more than the screams and howls that are sometimes done to mask the argumentative paucity. Who represents justice from an imaginary point of view is the blindfolded goddess. Why does the blindfolded goddess represent justice, in her consistency, in her ability to work? It must ensure third-partyness, depersonalization, genuineness, concentration. The first question I am asking is: are we not in the budgetary session? What was the need to organize this kind of regulatory push in the area of criminal justice, including a challenging retouch to the code of procedure and also to the penal code? Could we not have an appointment at a dedicated sitting of the Commission in time and of the House in time? That is what makes me say, then, that we wanted a thematic scalp that must balance other scalps that are probably supposed to represent results. I want to highlight my disagreement from the point of view of time, method and merit. I speak in the name of PD, but I speak also going beyond the political line of PD, taking a few millimetres of expressive autonomy. As far as the method is concerned, confidence in this matter would have been rejected by the greats of Italian law. In my region I was lucky enough to study - and to know it Abruzzo - a character, a personality like Capograssi, who taught us that even a single error from the point of view of criminal justice in fact makes the order pass as wrong. We need to be careful about these reform initiatives, and I am referring specifically to the provocative agent's case. It has been said - I want to point out, having so many years of administrative experience - that it is very easy to make a mistake to cross the border between lawful and illegal with respect to certain administrative instruments. I quote one: project financing, in its being a procedure - and it is the law of administrative law - is likely to resemble illegality. So, the provocateur agent has an assignment, a mission to do what? To collect what result? Accompanied by the function of the State or by another idea of the effectiveness of the State? I have suffered - for example - the poor functioning of portions of judicial rates that had the interest to spectacularize, to organize the attack and siege. Of course, justice has proved me right, and so many times: 53 times I have been compensated and approved, but I do not want to personalize. In English justice the magistrates have wigs. The robe and wigs serve to depersonalize, to overcome the emotional. That is why I wanted to ask for the floor: we must prevent a real issue that exists in Italy and that concerns corruption from leading to a wrong answer. We need to make the rules clear and clear. There is a need to ensure that the staff appointed to the administrator of justice are proportionate to the workloads. We need a reform of the process before we make intervention stalactites that risk ruining the balance we need. I want to highlight another fact: I have cultural sympathy for the corruption contemplated within the relationships between private individuals, but we must be careful because, if you make a norm on a public work that is not born then, nothing has happened; if you make a norm that changes criminal law, you do harm if there is no view of the whole consequence. As well as on political parties there is a need to do active standardisation before imagining the pathology of its functioning and financing. Why not then meet us in a place that produces the best of discernment, in the Commission, and then arrive here without the mannaia of the vote of confidence that kills the dialectical and dialectical confrontation. Why? What is the hastyness that determines this level of killing of the argumentative and dialectical deepening? What's the reason? It is not the reason for the merit: it is the reason for the show to be performed; it is the reason to collect and pocket a topic that then has to be performed on a balcony. But do we need this, now, in Italy? Does that need to be done? Dear Senators, I speak as a user, but I am aware of what bad criminal justice can do. I recently read about a mayor of Castellaneta who waited seventeen years to see the end of his personal malaise, family, territorial, political community, which concerned a malaction of the judicial initiative. We need balance then. We need to make sure that the best of deepening is born. It was coming to my mind to say to you: " cum clave " it would take to make sure that you are not mistaken; to make sure that then what rises as a normative result becomes an enrichment of the order, and not something exploited on the one hand. Is there anything about your legal vision that concerns the state or is it all part of a part always? We have the idea of the distinction between ordering, statehood, government, politics and majority. Criminal law coincides with statehood, it does not coincide with the part. We cannot imagine that every majority that intervenes will give rise to a scramble of criminal law, because then, really, downstream, they suffer the community and the economy. Corruption is the breaking of rules; it is the breaking of economic competition; it is the breaking of power for particular purposes and this unites us in the search for the best standard. But that is not the way to proceed. Then I ask you: is it not possible to suspend this regulatory procedure and resume it in a moment of tranquility, of shared industriousness, knowing that then we leave it as a legacy to our country, to the national community? Is it not imaginable that we do what we have sometimes managed to do as - for example - on some corrective passages of the decree-law in tax matters? That effort we are supporting on the budget, so that not everything is overwhelmed by the biased judgment, is it not possible to reserve it for this matter which itself has consequences in collective life? Here, these are the questions I want to accompany my emotional position, because I saw criminal law at work when it is pushed. I defended myself in the trial. I distanced myself from public responsibility. I've waited for the sentences. Compared to the prescription we must know that it is an institution that facilitates what is called the right process in the reasonable duration of the process. But it is necessary to know, however, with objectivity and secularity, ability to enter the merit. I always gave up my prescription, but I wouldn't have had the chance to wait seventeen years, like the mayor of Castellaneta. Seventeen years correspond to the age of a child who is then of age. That is why we cannot overscramble these arguments; we cannot make them oboleous of a political position in order to be recognized. I'd cry about it because I saw what Moloch, the Leviathan of justice does when he has the wrong teeth. Then I hope that there will be an increase in evaluation autonomy. Hannah Arendt said that there is a need for autonomy of the politician, but not of the political figure, but of the dimension of the politician when dealing with matters that last, that last, that go beyond the duration of a season. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u100	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u101	Minister, I was not present, because I was sick - I had had an accident - when you came to the Senate to the Justice Commission and said certain, clear words. And even though I'm far away, I really appreciate it, because I said, At last a minister who perhaps understands justice. And then I'll tell her why. On the other hand, I must say that I follow the interpretation of the title of the draft law under consideration by Mr Malan: you spoke of corrupt sweeps, but since we are not accustomed to a Minister of Justice using such terms, perhaps the colleague rightly called it sweeps justice, because we are actually outside the scope of justice. For what little I know of your activity, I must believe that you will never be like a party colleague who has just spoken, Senator Giarrusso, with whom you certainly cannot even write a norm. When one does not know the system of legality, he cannot speak. And he cannot speak because he speaks for slogans, for phrases to be made in an election campaign, perhaps in Corleone where his assistant ran, but certainly not in our Parliament. In this Parliament we are talking about the rule and whether the rule has a positive effect on the citizens. If the rule is not positive, it must be abandoned. You, Minister, said in that sitting that you would never touch the prescription before making a different organization of justice. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And this is not today, and why? You know better than I do, that you have an experience of criminal trials, as any legal operator who has experience in criminal proceedings knows, that the higher the penalty and the longer the trial is, because the high penalty leads to a long prescription and is never celebrated. I don't have to teach that all this is happening since the Rocco code period with fraudulent bankruptcy that had a very long prescription for the highest crime. And they didn't do it; they did it at the last moment, they didn't prescribe themselves: bankruptcy didn't prescribe it. Let's talk about the prescription. When I heard your words in the Justice Commission, I realized that you had already read all the statistics of the Ministry, which say that more than half of our country's judicial offices have a prescription almost zero. And then you wondered why the prescription is concentrated in some judicial offices, especially in five court of appeal? And if he did, he'll have an answer, and I'm sure he has the correct answer. The answer is that it should have, before making a substantive procedural reform of law, what is the prescription, checked whether there was a need for structures and staff in those offices. Since there is a need for staff, you rightly think of hiring 600 magistrates, but removes 15 in cassation, when the cassation is already overworked. Do you realize? Last year, with my vote against, we had to introduce the so-called auxiliary retired magistrates who go to work in the tax section. Here, however, they reason according to the criteria of the justice of Giarrusso, which says that we must have the "suspect." Do you realize that? We need to hear that the Daspus is scary for politicians. Who's it scary of? I'm afraid of the simple fact that a jurist uses the word Daspo. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] VALENT (PD). Bravo! CALIENDO (FI-BP). It scares me who doesn't understand by right and comes to talk about things that it doesn't even give the feeling of understanding. Someone mentioned clean hands earlier: I was there at those appeals trials, but since then, Minister, have you done what the magistrates said? It has not been done, or it has been done every other year. What was the indication? Prevention. Corruption in our country does not go away with higher penalties or processes: it goes away with prevention. Something happened every other year, but then we had another season. You know that better than I do, as you were in the last parliamentary term and, if I recall correctly, you were against it and, like me, you voted against the Orlando reform in the House. And he was voting against because he knew very well that raising penalties, up to the age of twenty-nine, for crimes against the public administration meant not fighting those crimes, but ensuring greater impunity, and it did not create deterrents. She, like me, voted against the suspension of the prescription after the trial at first instance and after the appeal process, because she wanted there to be an immediate ascertainment of responsibility. Only the investigation as soon as possible leads to deterrence. However, convinced of these things - and he also said them at that meeting in the Justice Commission - then he betrayed himself and presented a measure sweeping justice that was wrong, introducing within it the prescription. Why did he contradict himself? I must think probably for a run between the two components that form the majority and for the possibility of a greater consensus also carried out the prescription. I do not think you will have more consensus, because the citizens have defended the Constitution. You've gone around like me to make speeches to defend the Constitution, but you can't betray it. He cannot betray her because, when he introduces perpetual ancillary punishment, he betrays the Constitution. The Constitution wants there to be a chance of redemption. The educational function of punishment must be understood and we must ensure that in our country the criminal can redeem himself and finally no longer commit crimes. No, you want to crystallize the delinquent. He even wants to return to Lombrosian theories when he introduces ancillary penalties that are valid forever. It's wrong! You know better than I do, because you have studied it at the university, that life is already a serious penalty, but that it has been considered legitimate in a certain system. When there is the so-called double track, you cannot treat crimes that are less serious in the same way as mafia and terrorism. Otherwise - it is what Giarrusso does not understand and I hope you understand - the greater the application of those rules to other types of crime that are not the same gravity, the more the fight against the mafia and terrorism is diminished. Take a tip: come to Parliament more often. There was a possibility of finding a solution to the undercover agent as well. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish it, Senator. CALIENDO (FI-BP). I shall conclude, Mr President. My replacement amendment proposed to apply the current law to the undercover agent, including all crimes against the public administration. An opinion has been taken against this. Why? I have to conclude that that later wording, in the current rule, means that you intend to make possible a correct or incorrect interpretation that will ensure that the undercover agent can be assessed as a provocative agent. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Valente]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u102	He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u103	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this morning I listened to Mr Cucca, from the Democratic Party, and Mr Caliendo from Forza Italia, who I am learning to appreciate in the Commission, complaining that their amendments would not be heard and then approved or taken into consideration. This behaviour would degrade the role of the Commission and Parliament as a whole. I want to tell you, without the slightest controversy, that it is not so. The issue is much simpler and more trivial: we simply disagree. We are at the opposite end of your vision on these issues. You have not proposed constructive amendments, but you have tabled 250 amendments, all of them of the kind: in Article 1, delete the article; in Article 1, paragraph 1, delete the paragraph. In fact, dialogue cannot be established in such a way. We're at the antipodes. With friends of the PD, there are some aspects that separate us. You have always said that you want to fight corruption and that you want to deal with it, but then, in fact, you have never given concrete means to ensure that corruption is truly eradicated. In the same way you did not have the courage, even after submitting an amendment signed by Casson and Cucca in 2016, to carry on the rules that would reform the prescription, stopping it after the first degree, and thus preventing those convicted at first instance from being exempt from liability. Instead, it separates us from the friends of Forza Italia an even deeper vision. This morning I heard Senator Caliendo say simply that the problem of corruption in Italy does not exist. Obviously this is good for you, but it is not good for us; indeed, we trigger - as you call ourselves - we seem to be here to carry out measures such as the one we are discussing. Personally I have been waiting for a serious measure for years and, like me, many Italians; and, since you did not do it, we decided to come and do it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] For us triggers, that we are simple people who settle for small joys, today is a great day. On the other hand, I hear very strong words from you. In your opinion, we want to arrest everyone or we want to subvert the rule of law. For us this is a day when we try to give clear and simple messages to Italians. VALENT (PD). Messages? CRUCIOLI (M5S). These messages are as follows: First of all, the State intends to prosecute corruption and all crimes against public administration. By any means means means also employing investigative techniques used against organized crime such as - for example - the undercover agent or removing the ties that are there for the use of interceptions, allowing the so-called computer collectors and the institute of repentance also in such crimes. I mean, you make it easier to bring up corruption and hit it. Secondly, those who are convicted in the first instance will not be able to get away with the prescription. Finally, the parties will have strict obligations of transparency and finally we will know who are the funders of politics. That is the crux of the measure. I do not need six minutes to talk about everything that contains the anti-corruption measure and the crimes against the public administration. We intend to supplement the criminal offence to which the inability to contract with the public administration results or the ancillary penalty of perpetual ban from the public offices. We exclude that rehabilitation which, as you know, is only achieved three years after the execution of the sentence, may have an effect on perpetual ancillary penalties. I would remind those who have quoted the possible unconstitutionality of this rule that judgments no. 211 and 408 of 1993 of the Constitutional Court say the opposite. I do not talk extensively about the prescription and the data you have quoted. The interpretation of this data also divides us. According to a graph of the Ministry, 28,185 trials were prescribed in the court of appeal in 2017 and the trend has increased: since 2008 it has almost tripled. The problem exists and, therefore, it is clear that this reform will also have to be included in a broader context of the reform of the Code of the Criminal Process, balancing the rights of constitutional rank of the accused and reducing the duration of the trial. Meanwhile, however, in the face of striking cases of prescription for serious crimes, the state today - or tomorrow with the vote - will say enough to cases such as that of lawyer Mills, sentenced in first and second degree and then subject to prescription despite it was established that he had taken money not to testify to the trial with Berlusconi or Penati, or Viareggio or Eternit. And I could move on. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I shall conclude by quoting Pertini's words in 1979: Corruption is an enemy of the Republic. And the corrupt must be struck without any extenuating, without any mercy. And to give solidarity, for reasons of friendship or party, means to become accomplices of these corrupted ones. Well today or, better, tomorrow with the vote we will see who will not have pity for the corrupt and who, instead, will give solidarity to the corrupt. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Grasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to address above all the Senators of the 5 Star Movement with the following words: If you have the courage, put your face on it. Come here to Parliament and have it approved by the rules that have been laid down in our Constitution. Do not come here and gag Parliament with confidence, because we simply want to be able to debate it. These are his words, Minister Bonafede, proposing the draft law under consideration, delivered in June 2017. You remember that, don't you? Colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, do you remember when every confidence you shouted and climbed on the roofs in defence of Parliament? That is why, a few months after your establishment in power - today you are this, today you are the power - you are repeating the same mistakes and the same forcings that you have criticized for years when you were in opposition: total emptying of the meaning and functions of this House; total closing of the debate and the proposals of the oppositions. We know very well why you asked for confidence in the measure: because there is no mutual trust among the government allies. This degrades Parliament, but it degrades everyone, you too. Every confidence is an admission of weakness; the pact is shaky, the contract is rag paper, there are already those who ask to change it. Then to survive in the palaces, to hold power, to avoid a crisis that would make it impossible for many of you to reappear - alas - you are willing - and you are proving it - to do the opposite of what you have preached for years. How you change to not die. What we should have discussed today was a good starting text, which we could have improved. I have tabled amendments which will not be put to the vote with proposals which - I assure you - you would have tabled in the last parliamentary term. Even on corruption and funding for parties you have become more shy and the reasons, reading the newspapers these days, are easy to imagine. As far as I am concerned, I have always considered the fight against corruption as fundamental for the affirmation of legality, the correctness of public administration, for the prevalence of the public interest over private interests. It is important to bring out the phenomenon by means of technical-legal instruments and more sophisticated means of investigation than the law allows today, so as to affect not only the conduct of abuse of public authorities, but also those which are instrumental or connected to them. The measure before us - I give you this, Minister - introduces two important innovations. The first is to provide for a special cause of non-perpetuality for those who, after committing a fact of corruption, before having news that investigations are carried out against them and in any case within four months from the commission of the fact, spontaneously denounce it, providing useful indications for the identification of the other persons responsible and returning the sums and utilities given or received. A second remedy is the extension of the enforcement of offences against the public administration of the discipline of undercover operations, already provided for by Law No 146 of 2006. Well, let us be aware - no one has said so yet - that until now Italy has been in breach, since 2009, of the obligation of the Merida Convention to introduce undercover operations in the field of corruption. The infiltrator - it is known - is one who acts undercover in a judicial investigation relating to a crime that has already been conceived and is about to be committed. The infiltrated agent, in essence, merely acquires evidence of an existing criminal behavior. In the case of crimes against the public administration, it has been provided for in the norm that the donations, the acceptances of money are in execution of an unlawful agreement already concluded by others. There can be no doubt, no different interpretations. It is easy to realize how unfounded - in my opinion - the objections of those who oppose the introduction of undercover operations, making them improperly coincide with the figure of the provocateur agent, on the assumption that they would tempt people who would otherwise not commit the crime. In our legal system, undercover operations have long been planned for many other crimes and not only for terrorists or mobsters, as has been said so far. They are foreseen for so many other crimes, for crimes that need particular investigative means to be discovered. The aiding of illegal immigration, the trafficking of waste, sexual crimes: all these crimes already have the possibility to be prosecuted through this instrument. Why, then, should corruption not be possible? On the basis of these reasons, with the guarantee of specific modalities - let us not forget that any operation is authorized and controlled by the judiciary for the collection of evidence and not for the creation of new crimes - I am in favour of extending this investigative technique to crimes in the field of corruption and crimes against the public administration. But if - as I said - the key element in combating corruption is the possibility of bringing out the crime, one should not underestimate the importance of being able to prosecute it effectively. It has been said "never end pain"; perhaps one should say "never penance and impunity often." It would certainly have been better - we know this and you know it, Minister - to tie up the debate on the prescription at the time, which is no longer procrastinable, reform of the criminal process. The possibility of putting a long-awaited stopover is an opportunity not to be missed. Data from the Ministry of Justice have been quoted, but I want to remember one in particular: 125,564 crimes prescribed in 2017 in Italy. For one out of every 10 crimes there is no decision and the bill in question provides for the final suspension and in any case the cessation of the course of the prescription after the first degree of judgment. One of the feared risks is that the times of justice can be extended further, without any certainty for the defendant to see his trial concluded within a time period of reasonable duration, according to Article 111 of the Constitution, introduced in 1999. I would like to know from all those who complain about this fact what the rules so far have been in place to really speed up the criminal process: I would like them to be mentioned. We continue to say that the criminal trial is long, that we must shorten the time, but we must finally intervene. We need an organic reform of the criminal trial, and you know that, Minister. We have a hyper-warrantist procedure, which, however, stretches out and lengthens the time of the processes. He has failed the alternative rites, in the well-founded hope that a good defender will get the defendant to end the crime by prescription. I have tried to propose a number of amendments to the draft law under consideration, a sort of package on the timing of justice to start working on this point, that is to shorten the time. I have proposed - for example - the remote listening of witnesses, experts and consultants; finally the introduction of notifications via PEC also in criminal proceedings (why in civil proceedings yes and in criminal proceedings not?); the reading of judicial acts to the debate: a whole series of ideas that did not change the philosophy of the criminal trial, but could begin to speed up its course. Another suggestion was the beginning of the limitation of certain crimes against the public administration, not by the commission of the fact, but by the acquisition of the news of the crime: they are crimes that do not exist criminally because they are not discovered, if not after years and by chance. There is no one denouncing them, there is no victim: the only victim is the community. It must be borne in mind that such crimes are discovered after a long time and often prescribed before they even reach the first degree of judgment. There are 66,000 crimes that are prescribed before the debate: they are 50 percent and not 70, as has been said. And why do they prescribe themselves? Because they are already born with the times cut off from the late discovery. The timing of the investigations is known: six months that can be extended and two years for organised crime; there are no ten years for investigations and, therefore, they cannot be prescribed. They prescribe why they are discovered and why the date of the crime is the time from which the prescription takes effect. I therefore wonder why not put everyone on the same footing, so that all those who are being investigated for corruption see the prescription starts at the time of the start of the investigation. Looks like a lapalissian to me. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that we could have discussed this, we should have improved this text, Minister. As a magistrate I would have considered it an excellent starting point for a fruitful parliamentary work and I do not change my opinion as a senator, even though I oppose it. On matters of this importance, to which I have linked my entire procedural and professional life, there cannot and must not be any political calculation, but only the general interest of the citizens. On my first day as a senator in the last parliamentary term - you know - I presented a bill against corruption. The overall logic of that work was unfortunately only partially transposed, at the end of a very long parliamentary process, which I witnessed unarmed as President of the Senate without being able to intervene: it was my bill. Well, for consistency today as an opposition senator, I would have liked to work with you, with your government, to improve the text. And I would have done it with conviction. This is another wasted opportunity because of your weakness in the government, in Parliament and soon - believe me - in the country, but I am confident. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u105	You are registered to speak Senator La Russa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u106	Mr President, my speech will be very brief, because my colleague from the Fratelli d'Italia Group has already spoken and has expressed the reason why, although I consider some aspects of the measure in question to be positive - I am thinking of the increase in punishment and a whole series of serene intentions with which there is a desire to really try to reduce the impact of corruption in our country - but we cannot agree on a few points. Whatever Senator Giarrusso says - I do not know if he is still in the Chamber, perhaps not - in our opinion they do not meet a criterion of legal civilization and, therefore, of civilizations without adjectives. In particular, I am sorry that Senator Giarrusso is not present, but I believe that those who speak from these benches - it could be anyone in my Group - have the full title, for the history of our movement and not only the personal one, to say that the attempt to limit corruption has always been to the right and, together with the search for greater security for the citizens, one of our main objectives, even going beyond. I remember that we even put our hands a little over our eyes compared to certain exaggerated aspects of Clean Hands, which we supported perhaps more than, with the light that turned on afterwards, they would have deserved certain practices. But we do not regret it, because it was still a longing for hope of effectively combating corruption. And yet, even if we have never had to ask our leader to back off for a photo with the grandson of Provenzano; even if it has never happened to us - not even to me personally, while coming to the same city as the colleague who preceded me - an opportunity of this kind, it does not make us any kind of say that the norm on prescription is profoundly wrong, and I repeat deeply wrong. It is wrong, because the ratio of the prescription is not, as a feeling of revenge can make you imagine, in the will to strike or not to strike the culprit. The ratio of the prescription lies in the fact that the penalty is something that the State decides to impose on a guilty person to be the answer, the pay, to its violation of the law and also a teaching to society. Well, the passing of time overdoes this punitive claim of the state. All the lawyers have explained this to us in the history of law, and you, Minister, are well aware of that. To imagine that, after the first degree, there is no prescription means above all to encourage the slowness of the definition of the trials, because the first reason is not what has been said to us and that is that they are discovered late, the first reason - and I do not blame the magistrates or, at least, not only the magistrates - is that the trials are slow, for the structures. Between a criminal hearing and the other - and a criminal attorney says so, not completely in disarming - months pass, immemorial times pass. I do not think, then, that we can imagine an infinite prescription, if anything - and we have also heard from President Grasso some proposals - of the remedies to ensure that the prescription can be suspended or that the process can be allowed to last less. The uncivilized claim, which is only a spirit of revenge and which has nothing to do with the punitive claim of the State, to never allow a defendant to know whether he is guilty or innocent, will never convince us! [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u107	Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u108	Mr President, Minister, Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Minister for his presence, because you are not a frequent visitor to the House or to the Commission. We are pleased to see you here and, indeed, we hope to see you more often in the future. I must stress, however, as has been said by all the opposition colleagues who have spoken, the total silence of the Undersecretary who has followed the work in the Commission: I have heard his voice only for the expression of the assent to the opinions systematically opposed on all the amendments. Finally, I also heard tonight the voice of Senator Crucioli, whose intervention I regret. Who knows me knows that I never exploit anything and that, when I speak, I always put my face, in all the events that concern my activity, both private and public. I regret that I have heard an amendment which, of course, has not been adopted, with its name and surname, where some other Member, recalling today the amendment tabled in the last parliamentary term, had at least the common sense of not indicating the authors. As I said on the other occasion, we have to read everything when we hear the news; because my signature has been withdrawn from the list of those who tabled this amendment, because it was a mistake and therefore my name cannot be indicated in support of an amendment which was clearly contrary to what was the Democratic Party's line. An amendment resulting from the choice of a colleague because we all, thank God, have the power to think and we are all also able to discern between what we like and what we do not like. The Democratic Party did not like that amendment and, in fact, we, who are not used to approving, as you do, the measures only by force of numbers, have discussed them. In the newspapers the withdrawal of my signature has been well reported and, then, it is always better to inquire before saying things that are not true. I say this because, again tonight, I have heard many words in freedom. We have heard that the amendments were not adopted because they merely called for the deletion of articles. That is not true, and there are two cases here: either you have not read the amendments or you have not understood the scope of them. I want to think, because I am talking to law technicians, that at least you have read the content and understood what it meant and it would have been nice to be able to discuss it in the Commission. It would have been nice to hear your opinion and understand why those amendments to you were not good. It is not enough to say that you wanted to fight corruption by every means: we too want to fight it and we have demonstrated it, with all the measures that have been approved, often with the contribution of oppositions. Senator Caliendo, who was also in opposition in the last legislature, is a good witness to the debates and confrontations that took place daily in the Commission. You, on the other hand, have opposed only a useless silence. When you say "by all means," this means by all means that it is included in the legality and constitutionality of the provisions, while you are massacring the Constitution today. I have already said this once again in this House: I have sworn on the Constitution, I believe it, I will continue to believe it and I will continue firmly to oppose this kind of measures, which tears down the fundamental principles of our Constitutional Charter, the one for which we fight in here, putting our face, always. But we also heard something else. We have heard that the prescription is the refusal of the punitive claim of the State: we will see what result you will bring, we will see what you will bring home by introducing this prescription. I've heard of lawyers tonight. I keep thinking it's a road accident to define the forensic class as a good thing. I must say that I have smiled and that I do not make it a matter of will: sometimes they run away from words in freedom. I believe that the Italian forensic class deserves the place it has in our society, precisely because it has always defended those values of which I spoke before, sometimes even at the price of its personal events and sometimes even at the price of its own life. I've heard lawyers often try to lengthen the time of trial. But you know, you must know, that when an attorney or defendant asks for a postponement of any kind, the prescription suspends and does not have any effect on the lengthening of the trial. They cause the constant changes of the magistrates, the fact that they lack the staff and therefore the trials are postponed, because often and willingly they cannot proceed to make the notifications. These are the things that make the trials prescribe, not the activities of lawyers, not what you say about the instrumental use of referral or appeal to try to lengthen the trials and get to the prescription. We begged you and we begged you: let's discuss these events, let's talk about it with a face open, let's find solutions. President Grasso told you that, as you know, in more than one circumstance he expressed positions that I myself did not share, and I said so openly. But he also begged you: let's try to find solutions together. Nothing, silence of grave; no everything, the answer was always the same. The same complaint was also addressed to you by the entire opposition to the House where the debate took place exactly the same way, except for an accident in the way, which was caused by that amendment, then fortunately deleted here in the Senate, which modified the figure of the flaw for the events that we well know. Now, this is the thing that worries me: this irrational attitude of oppositions, irrational of the basic principles of our order. I repeat that and I really want to say it: I'm a lawyer for almost seven lustres, so I've seen it in courtrooms. But every time I'm a lawyer in courtrooms, I wear the robe and wear it convinced, firmly convinced, that it's not a piece of cloth. President Grasso said earlier: it is not a piece of cloth. It is a symbol of the defence of constitutional values, of the values of freedom, of the values of democracy and of legality and for this reason I will continue to fight, even in the face of measures such as this, that tear the legality and constitutional principles. Do you expect to teach us lessons on these issues? I'm sorry, but you are completely out of the way and you will suffer the consequences and the citizens will leave. Your measures are intended only to act as a manifesto, a commercial, to fool the people, who will be convinced that tomorrow the prescription will no longer operate. Instead, it will continue to operate more than before, because in this way, I repeat, you are seriously blocking the procedural activity, because there will be no magistrate who will think about what happens after the first degree of judgment, the trials will go to be blessed and the civil parts will wait for a life that is concluded and defined, if it is true, as it is undeniable true, that the majority of the processes are prescribed during the investigations. And why do they prescribe themselves? Once again, because there is no staff and because we do not have adequate staff to do the investigations correctly. But fortunately we introduce measures that frighten me very much: on the one hand, the Daspus and therefore we order the civil death of people, on the other hand the ancillary penalties, which remain forever, even after rehabilitation and, finally, we introduce the reckless use of the trojan. Last parliamentary term - it is never known that there are any amendments, which have been signed by me, but which have never been approved - in an open way I conducted a personal battle on the trojan and I had managed to postpone its introduction in more than one circumstance, because it is something that intervenes in the life of the private citizen. It is not by every means that we fight: we always fight with the legality and democratic instruments that the system offers us. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We have them, you had the opportunity to exploit them and implement them with better tools, but you preferred the short way of imposing a shameful measure, which mortifies constitutional values, fundamental in the judicial world. You'll pay for it, because sooner or later the results will come out. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u109	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law. I regret the exclusion from the Chamber of Senator Rizzotti, who can therefore return to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u112	CONZACTS (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to recall, through a thought from the Senate Assembly, my fellow journalist and compatriot Antonio Megalizzi, who is a friend of Trentino, a person I have known for years and who is currently struggling between life and death because of the vile attack that we once again had to see happen in one of our European cities. I express a thought of closeness to him, so that he continues to fight, to his family and to his girlfriend, who has applied with us, for our political strength. I express with deep emotion this thought, which I hope will unite all of us in a strongly Europeanist message, as has always been that of Antonio. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u113	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-71.ana.u114	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 13 December, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.55 p.m.
