ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Carossino, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 604. The rapporteur, Senator Augussori, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, draft law No 604 extends the deadline for the exercise of the legislative delegation conferred on the Government by Law No 106 of 6 June 2016 for the reform of the third sector, with reference to the possibility of issuing supplementary and corrective provisions. The aforementioned law, which entered into force on 3 July 2016, provides for a period of 12 months for the exercise of the delegation, concerning in particular the revision of the discipline in the matter of associations, foundations and other non-profit private institutions, recognized - or not - as legal persons; the construction and definition of a code of the third sector; the revision of the discipline in the matter of social enterprise and civil service. In implementation of the delegation, for the exercise of which the law indicates the principles and the guiding criteria, legislative decree 3 July 2017, no. 111 (regarding the measure of 5 for 1,000), legislative decree 3 July 2017, no. 112 (in the matter of social enterprise), and legislative decree 3 July 2017, no. 117 (representing the code of the third sector, published in the Official Journal of 2 August 2017). The delegation law provides that within 12 months of the date of entry into force of each of the legislative decrees, in compliance with the same principles and guiding criteria, the Government may adopt, through the same procedure, supplementary and corrective provisions of the decrees themselves, taking into account the evidence of implementation in the meantime emerged. In particular, with regard to the legislative decree in the matter of code of the third sector, the process of approval of the relative supplementary and corrective decree is still in progress. In the specific case of the third sector code, the delegation to the Government will expire on 3 August and the Government itself, before proceeding, is required to wait, among others, for the expression of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, scheduled by 21. However, the allocation to the Commission is still with reservations, as the Council of State's preliminary opinion has not yet been received. Therefore, the expression of the opinion in question was forcibly delayed, at least, on 24 July. A period of only nine days seems insufficient to implement, in the supplementary and corrective decree, the numerous requests received during the 36 hearings held, which will presumably be referred to in the opinion itself. Therefore, in the light of the scale and complexity of the issues covered by the legislative decree, as well as the need to take adequate account of the experience gained in the meantime, it seems appropriate to extend the deadline for the exercise of the delegation for the adoption of the corrective supplementary decrees, ranging from 12 to 16 months. Compared with the eighteen-month deadline laid down in the original text of Law No 604, the Commission has already examined the extension from six months to four months - in fact, it will be three months, including the month of August - with the precise intention to respect and satisfy the will of the institutions and associations in the sector, which have asked to make changes to the corrective decree, to do so quickly but above all to do it well. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u6	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u7	Mr President, we will vote in favour of this proposal. After much further study, we in the Commission have realised that the rules contained in it are very much awaited by associations and by all those working in the third sector and how important it is to support and feed the third sector. Nevertheless, we realize that there are some issues that need to be examined in depth and that, due to the tight deadlines that have been allocated to us, they deserve an additional thought and attention. Let us not forget - for example - that two thirds of the turnover associated with the reception is borne by the associations in the third sector. We are also concerned about the rule that raises the threshold for transparency in business management from EUR 100,000 to EUR 220,000. It is clear that this is the term we were given was absolutely insufficient. Our position in support of the proposal stems from the fact that in the Commission we have noted that there is absolutely no delaying will to address the problem. On the contrary, there has been a commitment of the majority and the rapporteur to dismiss in any case an opinion for this measure which, however, by its expiry on 3 August, would make the Government unable to proceed and, above all - as the rapporteur has said - in view of the fact that we still have no news of the requested opinion of the Council of State. For these reasons we were, among other things, signatories to the proposal, pursuant to the Rules of Procedure, for the urgent debate on the measure under consideration. Therefore, I repeat the vote in favour of Forza Italia.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u8	He is registered to speak Senator Di Piazza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators and representatives of the Government, last year Istat published data on the third sector in Italy: a reality that affects 350,000 bodies, involves 600,000 organized volunteers and is at a rate of growth higher than that of all economic sectors. Resources are generated for around €64 billion, representing 4.3 percent of GDP. With this reform, what was previously defined as a difference in the economy, neither the State nor the private sector intends to take on regulatory, economic and financial rigour. With this reform, the State will no longer be a concessionaire of legal forms for the provision of services within pre-constituted schemes. The need for services to the person will, on the contrary, be intercepted, photographed and processes will be put in place that will allow social policies able to improve the life of each person. With the reform, changing perspectives, we will be able to look at a real economy of the person. The reform will therefore seek to fill a legal vacuum and an ethical, political and cultural vacuum. I would like to talk not so much about reform of the third sector as about a new economy. What's all this about? It involves a plant that has to be linked to the production of services - let's be careful: production - and the typical elements of the business processes in the perspective of non-profit. So much has been produced in this first phase born from the need to regulate a sector, unique in Italy, for growth indices. Today there has been a good regulatory system, which has necessarily been followed by a phase of debate and review. Many are the open themes, summarized by the recognition of the "productive" function and no longer "redistributive" of the third sector. The first days of this government have highlighted a number of debated issues that still have to be linked between them to make a system. The newly formed Permanent Commissions found themselves having to express themselves on the many points of the reform. I quote - for example - the opinion of the Finance and Treasury Commission, of which I am a member, which also concerned the issue of bonds of solidarity by banks. It was stated that these securities should be used exclusively for the activities of the third sector. At the moment, it is clear that these issues need a more structured debate involving stakeholders and all the actors involved. Every day, new demands are represented to us, something that is not negligible: we are called upon by banks, onlus in their delicate phase of transformation into ETS, social enterprises and representative bodies of people with different fragility. We propose not a horizon of time indefinite, but only a few months that will allow this reform not to be plundered of its main meaning: attention to the person and to the common good. The real change needs very solid foundations and processes that, once started, work at full speed. This reform has a very high value: to recover the relationship, now worn out for several years, between the State and citizens; a real revolution that gives the sense to everyone to take part in the welfare choices to which our Constitution is inspired. The extension of a few months, proposed by the Government, which will be put to the vote shortly, seems to us not desirable, but absolutely necessary. Nothing must be neglected at this stage that will determine the true, new and sincere face of an Italy that wants to change. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u10	He's enlisted to speak Senator Patriarch. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u11	Mr President, we do not agree with the extension and we did not see any urgency, as you proposed at yesterday's sitting. I'll try to explain the path we've made. It is true that change must continue, but it must also be studied. We need to study the files and the files. The work done on the reform law for the third sector in the previous parliamentary term must be recovered. One cannot improvise, because otherwise change becomes unworthy, as is happening with the decree-law dignity. When we do not study, we do not understand where we have come from with the path we have made so far; it happens that we talk about change and we say we start again. I recall only a few figures: the first, Mr President, is that this reform and all the decrees adopted so far have been tenaciously opposed to the Movimento 5 Stars and the League. Therefore, the doubt that the extension wants to change deeply what has been done since the previous legislature is legitimate and we are really concerned. I try to say where we were and why there is no urgency. I am referring to Legislative Decree No 117: it is the last measure that closes the path of reform of the law of the third sector. It is a reform started in 2015 - I say this to my colleagues from the Movimento 5 Stars who took part in the itinerary - who saw a year of work in auditions to the Chamber and the Senate, with data collection and cognitive elements, after which we came to the reform and approved Legislative Decree no. 117. This measure, which we do not want to approve here, has been discussed extensively by the National Council of the Third Sector and the social partners in the last year of the previous legislature. The proposals we have tried to confirm and which are referred to here are of adjustment which Legislative Decree No 117 already indicated in its wording. The decree provided for a year of rethinking of an undoubtedly complex legislation that concerned the civil and fiscal issue. We were aware that Legislative Decree No 117, made up of 104 articles, had a complex architecture, yet we shared it. We have foreseen some changes and those which we were asking for to be approved here - as we did in the Commission too - where we did not even discuss at the end, because we stopped at the general debate - were intended to modify some of the errors in the measure. To postpone for four months - I do not know how many - the approval of the measure seems then an operation that will damage the small associations. I say with extreme loyalty and sincerity that, as it had been formulated, it created problems for the small world of volunteering that is heartfelt to all of us. The Government's proposals for amendment and those put forward by the National Forum of the Third Sector, the largest representation, which we could somehow approve at this sitting, went in the direction of improvement. The legitimate suspicion - I am telling you, Mr President - is that in fact the extension - but I really hope that it is not so - conceals the attempt or desire of the majority not to cancel the reform, which is the law of the state, but certainly to change it deeply. It is a reform that speaks of the common good and dignity of the person - I say this to my previous colleague - just read Law 106. It speaks of subsidiarity, a principle that has been forgotten in recent months. I would like to put a question to the Government and the Undersecretary: I would like to understand what the Government thinks. The government hasn't said a word. Mr Laus (PD). He doesn't listen. (The Undersecretary Cominardi confers with the Senator Catalfo to the benches of the Government). Government, he's talking to you!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u12	Senator Catalfo, you must move away from the benches of the Government and allow the Undersecretary to listen to the speeches. Mr Parrini (PD). You're in the Senate! Respect!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u13	In this month of unnecessary work - I must say - in the Commission I work - it was not the Commission which referred, but we have never heard the opinion or a single thought of our colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars and the League - only I and one colleague in Forza Italia have spoken: no one else has spoken. We don't know the government's opinion. The government never came to tell us what it thought. Mr Undersecretary, I would ask you here publicly to explain what the project is and what the extension is proposing, because you cannot be silent about a measure that closed the reform architecture of the third sector. Legislative decree no. 117 of 2017 closed and completed the reform. Then, as you know, Undersecretary, that decree provides for another 30-35 ministerial decrees and, therefore, the project must be carried out and concluded. The question I ask you, then - since we have not heard a single word, not even from Minister Di Maio, on this issue - is what the Government intends to do here in the Senate with respect to the reform and what the extension implies. Please bear in mind, Secretary, that the extension will probably have to go to the House and I do not know if you will be able to approve it. After that, do you know what's gonna happen, Undersecretary? Legislative decree no. 117, which we proposed to amend, with proposals from the previous Government and the National Forum of the third sector, will remain such and which, making the situation worse than we imagined. President Calderoli, we do not see the urgency of the measure and we therefore vote against it, hoping that the Government will give us guarantees and answers on what it will want to do with a reform on which - I repeat - it has voted tenaciously against. In the previous legislature, in fact - you know, Undersecretary - on all passages Movimento 5 Stars and League voted against. You are well aware, Undersecretary, that the Lombardy Region and the Veneto Region have opposed the reform. The design must then be clarified with respect to a text which we confirm as valuable and important. The reform of the third sector has been awaited for fifteen years. For fifteen years now, the National Forum for the Third Sector, associations and NGOs have been calling for the overcoming of organ law - as they say - and for confused taxation, which continually threatened the possibility of taking action even in gratuitous situations. The reform has concluded this path, with its problems and difficulties, which you know, Undersecretary. We have proposed amendments to a legislative decree that we have approved, having realised the shortcomings contained in it. We have proposed these changes here: the previous Government has proposed them, we have put them back in the Commission and the answer has been to postpone them. Mr President, we will vote against it. I look forward to understanding with precision and punctuality what the government intends to do in the coming months. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u15	Mr Calderoli, I would simply like to explain to my colleagues how, in fact, I and Forza Italia, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we have agreed to join the four-month extension in relation to the correction on the third sector code. We believe that, beyond the position of majority and opposition, the duty of each of us is to meet the needs of Italian citizens, in this case those directly interested in the world of volunteering, in the world of the third sector, and for this reason we are working. We have heard in the Commission many of the protagonists of this world: important protagonists such as the Red Cross, the National Forum of the Third Sector, the ACLI, alpine rescue. So many people have come to the Commission and have explained to us the need to apply corrective measures as soon as possible. However, they also told us that some changes and some interventions must still be taken into account by the Government. Well, from what has emerged - from what the rapporteur has said at my side and from what Vice-President Calderoli himself said in the Commission - the will is, however, to arrive at a solution in the shortest possible time. In fact, this measure represents a parachute in the event that the peremptory deadline of 3 August should not be sufficient for the Government, also in view of the fact that unfortunately it is missing the opinion of the Council of State that - as is known - should have already delivered to the Government, and not only to the 1st Senate Commission. Well, we believe that in the next few hours the opinion of the Council of State can reach and that, above all, the accession by Forza Italia to the proposal of Vice-President Calderoli is certainly also linked to the granting by the rapporteur Saponara and Vice-President Calderoli himself to share in the widest possible way the opinion that will have to be voted in the Commission also by us. We have been told - if I remember correctly - that by tomorrow morning the opinion will be delivered to us and I thank for the collaboration, but this is the way in which we wish to work and contribute to the solution of our country's problems. Forza Italia has no form of opposition end in itself. Forza Italia simply wants to be useful to the country and try to meet the demands and needs that, in the specific case, are those of the world of volunteering and the third sector. Therefore, we could only adhere to this good creation that is generated within the Upper House of our country. We believe that this is the political activity that Forza Italia must carry out in the Senate, and this is the reason why Forza Italia, through the Parent Company, myself and Vice President Vitali, has adhered to the proposal that has been addressed to us. In conclusion, before announcing - as Mr Vitali has already done before me - the vote in favour of the four-month extension measure for the correction of the third sector code, I hope that in the short space of a few hours we will be given this opinion and that it can also be shared within the Commission with the other political forces, including the Democratic Party, present in it. I would remind you that voluntary associations play an extraordinary role in accordance with a principle in which we believe, that of subsidiarity, which must be extraordinarily useful in the liberal logic of the functioning of the State. For these reasons, we shall vote in favour. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u17	Mr President, I should like to add a few words to what my fellow Members, Mr Vitali and Mr Pagano have said. We are faced with an important measure that involves a sector that commendably engages hundreds of thousands of people in Italy who carry out a task that the State would not be able to replace, and do so free of charge. The concern of the law of delegation that gives rise to the legislative decree, that has been under consideration and that with the requested extension can be examined in more detail, was above all to prevent abuses; just because that of the third sector is a noble activity, it must be avoided that there are abuses. However, it must also be avoided that, in preventing abuse, uses are also prevented. We think of non-profit associations, whose members and operators work for free; therefore it means that they put their own, because free of charge does not exist: if one spends time, that time there somehow costs him, because he moves, moves, spends time out of the house and consequently even incurs a cost. These people and organisations must therefore not be subjected to excessive bureaucratic constraints. The temptation of bureaucratic constraint is always present in every area of our social life and I would say that it is a temptation to which the current majority succumb very often, to regulate everything and control everything: then we must control the controllers and control the controls. In the end everything is very controlled, but then nothing can be done. If a number of organisations in this important sector have expressed doubts, I believe that Parliament should be given the opportunity to do its best to gather them and try to resolve them. I certainly do not trust that the Government will make a perfect delegated decree: it is certainly impossible, because already the delegation is anything but perfect. In this way, however, with the extension of the deadline for exercising the delegation, let us give Parliament first of all an opportunity to express itself and to ask the Government to intervene in an appropriate way. If the Government does it right or wrong, or does it not, it will be judged in the opinion of the relevant Commissions and then on what has been done. It must be borne in mind that, if the Government had wished, it could not have exercised at all the delegation: it was in its faculties, not being obliged to exercise it. Therefore, even if it is understandable, I really do not believe that the reasons for those who say that with this extension we are even in danger of not having the code and the rules that we are discussing. This is not the case: if the government wanted to do this, it could have done so quickly, not by exercising the delegation. It could have found a number of good reasons, in a few days the delegation would have expired and, consequently, the legislation could not have been enacted. I trust that the Government will exercise this delegation in the best possible way, according to what has been agreed in the competent Commission, as Senator Pagano has said, by collecting the notations and interventions of the organizations in the field during the hearings, always bearing in mind that we must absolutely contest the two aspects I was talking about before. It is certainly necessary to avoid abuse, but it is also necessary to avoid burdening obligations, controls and excessive constraints: this applies to everyone, to all organizations and to all people in Italy who produce and work for profit - or for entrepreneurship - as well as to those who work for free in the third sector. We must have confidence and give citizens a chance to express their abilities in every area of social life. Already there was very little attention in the delegation law on this issue, but it was all about regulation, control and constraints. Instead, let us restrict them as much as possible and make effective controls, in order to give way to the extraordinary energies expressed in the third sector to continue to offer their contribution to society and, if possible, to improve it: it is really very important and deserves the gratitude of all and therefore a particular attention from the legislator. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u18	Senator Vono is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u19	Mr President, Senators, Senators, Representatives of the Government, the following debate is about the method by which to evaluate the measures taken by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This method is perhaps new, because it aims to examine in depth and seriously the regulatory provisions to be examined. In particular, therefore, I will not dwell on the substance of the measure but on the reasons for the request for the extension of the delegation by the parliamentary majority as represented by the 1st Commission. The code of the third sector entered into force on 3 August 2017 but on the measure already the unified Conference, at its meeting of 21 June 2018, did not reach an agreement for the opposition of the Veneto and Lombardy regions. The need to make corrections has also become necessary following meetings with the National Council of the third sector that have highlighted the need for systematic coordination of the legislation in place already after the adoption of the code by the previous Government, that same Government, now a minority, that seems, in this new and different role, not to take into account not only such technical and legal requirements but above all the multiple requests coming from that diverse world of the third sector to which the reform addresses. In fact, it is precisely in order to respond to the requests of associations, workers, volunteers and professional groups that the corrective measures in question need to be deepened, so as to be rapid but careful and competent. Therefore, the delay in time required will serve to better assess the considerable number of improved proposals coming from all the representatives involved in the reform and heard at the hearing by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs last week. Therefore, the work carried out by the Commission is perhaps overly picky but certainly balanced and not schizophrenic, as some superficial statements appear which I do not think deserve to be included in the right political criticism, since these issues cannot be reduced to small provocation but on which, precisely for the sake of the required respect, we must finally give adequate concrete answers. Given that no agreement has been reached on the draft decree but also that today the measure is without the necessary opinion of the Council of State, there is currently the impossibility to proceed legitimately with the opinion of the Commission to that Member. That would be enough to support the request for an extension. However, I think it is right to explain the reasons for the right of the request for an extension so that not only this House, but above all stakeholders, can understand the importance that we have given to their demands, in order to allow a broad understanding and sharing of the text. Although the intention to intervene in the world of the third sector in order to give a systematic framework of the matter is appreciable, it cannot be assumed that the measure is exhaustive of such a broad subject. That is why it was important and necessary to listen to the requests and proposals of associations and professional bodies. Our efforts are aimed at reducing to unity and balanced synthesis the complexity of the interests at stake, favoring both the greater inclusion of small non-profit associations as well as the structural and functional operation of the large associations. Correct in this sense have been requested by the forum of the third sector regarding social cooperatives, mutual assistance societies and amateur sports associations whose contribution to the improvement of life has been underlined during the government's programmatic declarations also by Prime Minister Conte, who referred to the thousands of small amateur sports associations that promote sport in a dimension of social inclusiveness, aggregation and education that the Government now intends to enhance and protect; a attention that must however also pass from listening to their proposals also regarding the maintenance of fiscal legislation that provides for facilitations. Further instances have been proposed, both under the accounting and legal arrangements, by the National Council of Accountants and Accounting Experts and by the Notary Council. I will conclude by saying that, ladies and gentlemen, what has been brought to our attention is only a part of it, but I wanted to, and I had to focus on a few points in order to make it clear how important it is to deepen the issue in order to allow for a truly effective implementation of the reform. The reform of the third sector represents a great opportunity for convergence of intelligence and resources, looking at the challenges and opportunities of the future and not at the positions established in the past and therefore it is necessary for the Commission to have the time - albeit minimal - to combine ethical motivations at the basis of altruistic and supportive behaviour with the economic dimension of human actions. The extension requested is therefore essential in order to fully protect organized volunteering, social cooperation, associationism and foundations of social utility, recognizing that social formations cannot be reformed in Parliament or by governments that follow each other and that, in our task, we must limit ourselves to intervening to the sole aim of guaranteeing the possibility of development that results in the development of our country, with a qualified interlocation on the level of public and social culture that so far, unfortunately, has completely failed. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u20	The general debate is closed. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u23	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, the reform of the third sector has seen us engaged in the last parliamentary term for a very long time and I must say that, even with regard to the work of the House, a number of very important and even substantial changes were made to the approach of the reform itself during the examination of the Senate. I would also like to remind you here of the work we were able to carry out in order to correct the very essence of the social enterprise, which was distorted; at the beginning, in fact, the approach of the work coming from the Chamber produced a twist in the social enterprise, making it take on a connotation that made it closer to the company tout court than to the social enterprise, for example, providing almost a redistribution of dividends and a possibility of prevalence of profit over the social purposes. I say this because in some cases they were dealt with positively and in others less, also other issues that concerned a number of corrective measures. We abstained on that reform, but felt that it was absolutely essential that there should finally be a complete reform of the third sector. Now we in the Commission, when expressing our opinion of competence, have begun to examine a series of corrections and integrations; we have held hearings with many associations, such as the National Forum of the third sector, the ARCI and the Red Cross; in short, a series of third sector bodies that daily in this country offer a fundamental contribution where public bodies, administrations often do not arrive and which, I would like to stress, are a great resource for the country itself. We have begun to examine a number of additions and corrections and so, Mr President, I believe that we could have achieved a result quickly, because we have been holding hearings for a few weeks now and the draft legislative decree is at the attention of the 1st Commission with the possibility of supplementing it. I would also like to remind you that yesterday in the Council of Ministers you approved the corrective decree on social enterprise. This means that, beyond the fact that the opinion of the Council of State has not arrived, we could have expressed the opinion and the additions in the planned terms, because we did not need much more time, because we had already heard all the stakeholders; I believe that the rapporteur, Senator Saponaro, has now quite clear what are the elements on which to intervene, the corrections to be made and the improvements that can be made with the cooperation of all. The delegation is due to expire on 3 August, so I believe that it would have been absolutely appropriate and also possible to comply with this deadline, doing our work well and giving absolutely our contribution. I would also like to point out that the auditors, for the most part, have given us indications, have expressed their opinion, have made their requests for amendment and integration, some of which are very important, such as the amendment of Article 33 of the third sector code. For example, it is absolutely necessary to make self-financing possible, so some corrections must be made, because otherwise the text as well as it would make self-financing impossible for many of these institutions. Or I think about the issue of the workers' roof and a number of tax rules. I am thinking, for example, of the use of public assets. A number of improvements have already been introduced in the reform of the third sector: improvements can be made to ensure, for example, that certain public goods can be used fully for social purposes and removed from abandonment. As they set out their requests, the auditors highlighted the critical points, the issues on which to intervene in order to improve the legislation. However, most of them - I am thinking, for example, of the Third Sector Forum - have made it clear to us that we are calling for this to be done quickly; I repeat, there is an urgent need to close all this work, which has been going on for a long time, and to give an immediate response. This means, in our view, that the extension is not only not appropriate, but could also be harmful. In fact, with a work that was being done and which - I believe the rapporteur can testify to this - could have been completed, beyond the delays of the Council of State, we would have been absolutely able to express our opinion and the Government could therefore have fully respected the deadline set by the delegation. Unless you want to ask for an extension to do a job that, perhaps, intends to modify much more the code of the third sector. That, however, should be the courage to say so clearly. On the other hand, I hope that only and only (as I hope the 1st Commission will do with its opinion) will stick to the real issues to be addressed and the corrective measures to be taken to ensure that all third sector entities can fully fulfil their role. Improvements and corrections are right and desirable but could be safely made through the time already foreseen by the delegation itself. We therefore reiterate our opposition, although the extension initially proposed has been extended from six months to four months, so it is certainly an improvement. However, we believe that it would have been urgent to respect the timetable and to close the reform as a whole, through compliance with the deadline. For all these reasons, we shall vote against the extension. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u26	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, in the last parliamentary term, a series of measures was adopted after many years of waiting, which responded to the needs expressed by the world in the third sector on several occasions and with great force. We knew - and we said so from the outset - that these measures, because of their complexity, would need to be corrected, that we should have tested them and should have, from their implementation, drawn the indications to improve their effectiveness. The measure proposed to us today does not convince us precisely for this reason; it is proposed that we postpone the adoption of these corrections, that we prepare the ground for not giving the answers that the third sector asks the Government and Parliament. We therefore believe, first of all, that this measure is wrong, because it runs counter to the expectations, interests and demands that the world of the third sector and volunteering has made to the Government and Parliament, including in the hearings. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this measure, as well as the wrong one, is unmotivated. I have listened to the reasons by which, by climbing over the mirrors and making a great noise, an attempt has been made to justify the measure. The first reason would be that the opinion of the Council of State did not arrive. But, I mean, let's stick to the facts. The opinion of the Council of State will probably come a few days behind the deadline. And we respond to a few days delay with a four-month extension? Is that a proportionate and appropriate response? It seems to me that this is an incorrect thing and only a pretext. We are then told that many realities have been heard during the hearings, which have given suggestions and complex indications, which must be taken into account and to which an appropriate response must be given. Colleagues, all we'd need is for this to come out of the auditions. Every time hearings are held on important measures, there are many audits, and whenever there are many audits, there are many indications. Whoever governs must be able to transpose them, elaborate them and transform them into proposals, soon and well. I do not think that there has been this capacity to date, nor do I think that the number of audits can be invoked as a reason for adopting an extension of four months like this. Finally, I would like to say the real reason for my concern. We cannot understand - as volunteering and the third sector are not - what is the real reason behind the request for this extension. Why do we not respect the deadline of 3 August to take the final measure? If you want, you can very well comply with this deadline. Then let's ask ourselves some questions. Do we want to bring these measures down? Are we gonna turn them over? Why do we get to vote on the draft extension law, even if we fail to reach an agreement in the Commission, even before we have enabled the opposition to view a draft opinion? In order to give the opposition a draft opinion, it did not take the opinion of the Council of State but only the will to do so. And if the draft opinion did not arrive, it is not because the opinion of the Council of State did not arrive, but because the government did not loose the knots it was facing. With great respect, I would like to say to the Undersecretary Cominardi that, in the continuation of the examination of the measure, I hope that a greater involvement of the Government will be achieved than there has been this morning. In fact, during today's examination we have been discussing for many minutes without being able to count on his precious attention - at least apparently - given the things in which he has been engaged up to this moment. Mr. Undersecretary, we need more attention. I repeat, more attention. Someone is then trying to say that the wound we are inflicting is less painful and bleeding, because the measure entered into the Commission contained an extension of six months, while today the forecast is four months. However, as I said yesterday, you have to be careful about how things look, because if making a six-month extension is a very big mistake, making a four-month error is a big mistake (there is only a very different one). It is not enough to reduce the size of the error to move from the wrong side to that of reason. Finally, I would like to make an appeal. We still have an opportunity for constructive work to be done together. The draft opinion which the rapporteur, in the Commission, will have to submit to the opinion of the opposition can be an opportunity to build a shared path, in the expression of an important will of Parliament. I hope that this will also be done on the basis of what we have said in the Commission and that, at least on the opinion of the legislative decree, a broad consensus decision can be taken. Finally, I hope that there will be no need for this extension, which runs counter to the interests of the voluntary world and the third sector. I hope that the Government will learn that its duty is to decide soon and well and that, therefore, by August 3, the final decision to adopt the legislative decree without upheavals will be issued, which would also be unlawful in relation to the opinion that we will express. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u29	Toffanin (FI-BP). Mr President, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote in favour of this measure. In fact, we believe that Parliament and the Government need more time to analyze the critical issues related to the measure under consideration. In fact, the opinion of the Council of State is lacking and for us this lack would risk jeopardising the reform of the third sector itself, reform long awaited by the operators, as we remember. In the Commissions, as has already been mentioned by my colleague Senator Patriarch, there have emerged observations and critical issues related to the contents, such as the extension of the third sector also to commercial companies. I do not want to go into the substance of the content which - I repeat - needs to be studied and analysed more carefully, but it is essential for us at this time to have more time, precisely because problems have emerged, in order to receive the opinion of the Council of State. We shall therefore vote in favour of this extension of the deadline for the exercise of the delegation for the reform of the third sector. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u32	Mr Saponara (L-SP). Mr President, fellow Senators of the Republic, according to the Act of the Government submitted to Parliament No 33 the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Senate was asked to give an opinion on the draft legislative decree concerning supplementary and corrective provisions to Legislative Decree No 117 of 3 July 2017, better known as the third sector code. The act was incardinated in the Commission on July 5, just less than a month after the expiry of the delegation law no. 106 of 2016 which, in article 1, paragraph 7, states that it can make changes to the single text of the reform of the third sector within a year from its entry into force, a deadline that identifies itself on August 3 next. At the same time as the incardination of the Act of the Government, various associations and organizations in the third sector, as well as trade associations, have received requests to be included in the corrective decree and to make changes; very short time, if one considers the extent of the matter being dealt with, which affects various aspects of the associative world. Hence the need, agreed with the other members of the Commission, to hold hearings to listen to the various players involved, in order to receive useful comments in order to better carry out the work of the Commission, with a view to expressing a shared opinion taking into account the various comments and suggestions that would have come. Choice, however, considered necessary for the delicacy of the matter, for an act of respect towards the institutions of the third sector and to the citizens who take advantage of their services. The various hearings, as many as 36, set out as a matter of urgency took place on 10 and 11 July, with the aim of issuing an opinion by the deadline set for 21 July. Despite the commitment to express the opinion and the exercise of the delegation, it was not possible to express itself in the absence of the opinion of the Council of State. Therefore, the deadline of 21 July, as mentioned above, cannot be respected. In view of this and of the need to better evaluate the observations collected during the hearings, it was thought to request an extension of the deadline for the exercise of the delegation for the reform of the third sector, as established by article 1, paragraph 7, of the law n. 106 of 2016 proposing the draft law currently under consideration, which provides for the replacement, in the same paragraph, of the words "within twelve months" with "within sixteen months" in question. It is, therefore, only four more months from August 3rd to give quick answers to the world of the third sector. Stressing that the opinion of the Commission, on which we have worked immediately, will be expressed however within the useful time limit to allow the Government to exercise the delegation, as the Government would only have a handful of days to intervene on the required modifications, we considered it appropriate to request precisely the extension of the delegation law. Reaffirming that the intention is to improve the corrective decree and not, as has been repeatedly said and repeated in the Commission, to throw away a job and a reform expected from the world of the third sector, we of the Lega-Salvini Premier Group clearly express a vote in favour of the bill today under consideration concerning the extension of the aforementioned deadline. I would like to thank my fellow Commissioners, Mr Vitali and Mr Pagano, for having accepted this desire to reach a shared opinion and to welcome the comments made during the various hearings in the best possible way. We hope that our colleagues in the House will do the same and that they will accept the proposal for this extension for the good of the associative world. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u35	GRASSI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, the 5 Star Movement will vote in favour of draft law No 604. It is good to stress immediately that the Movimento 5 Stars is well aware of the importance of the code of the third sector. As a jurist, I cannot help but express appreciation for the courage that the previous majority had in dealing with such a complex issue. I remember well the discussions around 2010, 2011 and 2012 of doctrine and scholars in relation to the need to deal with such standardization that concerns a sector that has been defined by several parts as a galaxy of heterogeneous entities, different and united all by the desire to pursue objectives of general interest not for profit. This social phenomenon is not only a matter of altruism or charity. We are well aware that this is a phenomenon that fits into a historical flow. It is not by chance that third sector entities have established themselves in the aftermath of the collapse of ideologies, when the democracies we call Western have taken as the sole benchmark the market. Yet, at that time, some citizens felt the need to counter the logic of profit at all costs and to intervene in support of the most disadvantaged groups, the weakest and all those activities that do not immediately generate profit, but a social advantage that cannot be measured in money. I am talking about those activities that are consistent and in line with the very first articles of our Constitutional Charter. As a jurist I know that the work done on the drafting of the code was immense. I understand that there have been 1,016 audits of associations during the work, but be careful: this does not necessarily mean that the text produced is up to the goodness of the end. The third sector code is, in some respects, involuted, complex and difficult to read. Attention, this exquisitely technical criticism does not even want to be a censor to the operation. It is historically inevitable that when matter is magmatic the product of the legislator is not linear, it is not clear. To us came the corrective decree that was prepared by the previous majority, but it continues to present some criticalities. A PD colleague said the government needs to work quickly and well. Let me point out that these two terms are sometimes in conflict: they may not be reconciled soon and well in this case. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-SP groups]] I have pointed out with intellectual honesty the appreciation for the work done. Nobody should be offended if we see that the text produced and currently in force needs considerable improvements. It must be clear and clear and it is - I repeat - difficult to read. We have also now done a substantial job: we have listened to the trade associations and received many indications that must be transposed into the supplementary and corrective decree. But some observations are even conflicting and contradictory. Time is needed; I am amazed to see how the mere extension of a period of time has taken on political significance. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-SP groups]] The importance of the third sector code is not under discussion. Nobody wants to deny the importance of this sector which plays a very important social role; our aim is only to do good work. So, if anyone is concerned about this extension, it's good for them to relax. We do not want to take time because we are opposed to the code or the system of the code. How can you be against the work of those who work without pay for volunteer work? Clearly, we are in favour. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-SP groups]] But the serious questions, including technical questions, which have been raised (I think, for example, of the notary's objections) need a thoughtful answer. This extension is necessary in order for the third sector to have a code that is up to its importance. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-SP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u36	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the draft law as a whole in the amended text as a result of the amendments made to the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Allow me now to wish Senator D'Angelo a happy birthday, for both gender and political reasons. [[Applause]] Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to express my satisfaction, which I would like to share with President Zanda, President Bernini, President Grasso and Senator Buccarella, for the operation of the reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. This measure was incardinated at 3 p.m. on Tuesday and therefore, after less than 48 hours, is passed in terms of law. And it is a bill of parliamentary initiative: finally not only decrees-laws. Now the ball goes to the House. I want to think about who wanted to abolish the Senate. [[Live, sustained applause from the M5S, FI-BP, L-SP, FdI, Mixed and Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), whose components stand up. Protests from the PD Group.]] Thank you but that is enough now, also because every reference to really existing people is purely wanted! [[Applause from the M5S, FI-BP, L-SP, FdI, Mixed and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV). Senator Mirabelli's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u39	COMINANCES (PD). Mr President, let me say this to someone who was not present in the last parliamentary term: the reform would not have abolished the Senate, but would have given it different functions and competences. [[Comments from the M5S Group, and Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u40	Senator Begin, you weren't there in the last parliamentary term, but I was, and I was also, unfortunately, rapporteur for that measure. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u43	Mr Bergesio (L-SP). Mr President, I rise on a tragic matter. [[Brusio.]] BELLANOVA (PD). The propaganda you've made is unbecoming, President! [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u44	Colleagues, please, Senator Bergesio wants to intervene on a tragic episode. I believe that he should be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u45	[[Protests from the PD Group.]] BINI (PD). You had to think about it first, ma'am! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Bergesio. [[Lively protests from the PD Group.]] Mr Bergesio (L-SP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention in this House the figure of the chosen Major Corporal of the alpine Maurizio Giordano, who died in Pakistan on 11 July. [[Applause. The Assembly stands.]] Thirty-two years old, unmarkable military and model son of our homeland. With an international mountaineering mission promoted by the Army, together with other colleagues, he had left for Asia to retrace and commemorate, giving new lustre, the first ascent to Gasherbrum IV, 7,925 meters set in the Karakorum mountain range, which was realized by Italian mountaineers Bonatti and Mauri, now sixty years ago. An unpredictable misfortune: an ice sheet that overwhelms everything and everyone has left no escape to our valiant fellow citizen. Tonight, in Malpensa, the remains of the unfortunate military will return to national soil, and the burning chamber will be set up in the hamlet of San Benigno a Cuneo, of which it was originally. On Saturday, in the cathedral of Cuneo, Monsignor Aldo Giordano, Maurizio's uncle, who is an apostolic nuncio to Venezuela, will hold the funerals. The city of Cuneo has declared the city mourning for the tragic event. A young life that breaks the soul of those who remain, and only the enormous affection that the memory of the major corporal has aroused and continues to arouse at local and national level can try to soothe the pain of Mother Ornella, Father Angelo, Brother Marco and the company Ramona. To all of them, beyond my personal, warm embrace, the condolences of the entire Senate of the Republic come. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u46	Senator Bergesio, the Presidency joins your memory and thanks you.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u49	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, safety at work is also a central issue for this Government. In fact, the first intervention in the Senate of Minister Di Maio was precisely set on accidents at work. At Casoria Ambiente SpA, a single-staff company managing urban hygiene services (a company in house under the control of the Municipality of Casoria), on 27 October 2016, Mr Stefano Basile, an ecological operator, was overwhelmed and killed by an eco-compactor during the reverse operations of the vehicle. Also on that occasion immediately the 5 Star Movement, through its municipal councillors, requested the opening of a specific investigation in order to shed light on the tragic event, in order to verify compliance with all the safety procedures provided for by the legislation on health and safety at work. Still, on November 25, 2016, then only a month after the violent death of the ecological operator Stefano Basile, an accident at work occurred that caused the death of another ecological operator in service at Casoria Ambiente SpA: the latter was crushed between a self-compatter and a van for the collection of paper. In addition, despite the dramatic events previously exhibited, on June 28 of this year, Mrs Carmela Favina was overwhelmed and killed by a sweeper during cleaning operations. According to a first reconstruction, the truck was making the reverse maneuver when it overwhelmed the victim. Therefore, again at the centre of attention are the safety measures taken by the hygiene firm. The phenomenon of accidents at work is so significant that it requires a continuous analysis of the state of health of companies with regard to safety at work. For each company it is therefore essential to devote part of the training activity to safety courses: fewer cards and more substance. In particular, in view of the various accidents at work at Casoria Ambiente SpA, we urge the company, controlled by the Municipality of Casoria, to ensure effective and punctual control in order to protect the health and safety of workers in the workplace. Among other things, this seems to be a contradiction when it comes to a company which is in charge of a public service on behalf of a public administration. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u50	Colleagues, the President intends to apologise for the fact that someone may have interpreted it as a position of political attack, with respect to one side or the other, my speech, which was only in support and in defence of the institution I represent at this time, namely the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups. Comments from Senator Bellanova.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u51	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-24.ana.u52	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 24 July, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 11.32 a.m.
