ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-13.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:01 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 19 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-13.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-13.ana.u3	I inform you that the parliamentary groups have appointed their representatives to the standing committees, the composition of which will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-13.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 435. The rapporteur, Senator Patuanelli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. [[Brusio.]] I call on my fellow Members to sit down and keep a little more silence or at least lower the buzz. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-13.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we come to this House after very intense days of work in the special Commission on a subject that affects the most sensitive cords of each of us, because it is a matter of responding to citizens who have lost relatives and friends, who have seen their homes destroyed and who have completely destroyed the productive fabric of very large areas of four regions. I want to start this report by thanking, first of all, the Special Commission Offices, which have done incredible work, but also all the political components of the parliamentary arc for the availability, competence and willingness to solve the problems of the citizens, to whom an answer must be given to begin to glimpse a light at the end of a tunnel: we will not be able to give that light, but at least we will be able to show it to them. I believe that the way in which we have worked in the special Commission, all together, is an example of how politics can really unite on some issues to give the answers that citizens have been waiting for a long time. In particular, I would like to thank the Special Commissioner for the reconstruction of the earthquake, Mr De Micheli, for the institutional correctness that he has put in place even in the weeks preceding the arrival in the Chamber of the decree of 29 May and the issuing of the earthquake, involving all political forces in a debate on what the rules were to be carried out. So what I feel like doing here is not ritual but sincere thanks. An old adage says that the best is an enemy of good. I believe, however, that, unfortunately, for those who do politics, this brings some frustration, because seeking the best can not help us from doing things well. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-13.ana.u6	Colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-13.ana.u7	Patuanelli, rapporteur. However, we must aim at the best: we are aware that the work carried out in the special Commission probably leaves out some issues that we have not been able to include for reasons of time, because the process for the conversion of this decree-law, and the examination of it in the special Commission with the need to close the work in that forum, has led to leave outstanding some issues on which, however, there has been a great deal of confrontation and a fundamental agreement between all the political components. I trust that on many issues - and I will come back to this later - also thanks to the work that we will do here in the Chamber or in the House, we will still be able to integrate the text of the measure from today before this House with additional regulatory elements. Therefore, coming to the merits of the measure in the text assigned to the Special Commission of the Senate, it regulates the extension and suspension of the deadlines relating to tax and contribution payments, the suspension of the payment of the RAI fee and the suspension of the payment of the utilities towards the populations of Central-Italy affected by the earthquake from 24 August 2016. I would point out that one of the problems is that since 24 August 2016 there has not been a day when the earthquake has not been felt in those areas. The decree-law was born with only two articles: Article 1, which regulates the extension and suspension of the time limits in relation to tax and contribution payments and the suspension of the payment of the RAI fee, and Article 2, which provides for its entry into force. In particular, the first paragraph of Article 1 (a) makes amendments to Article 48 of Decree-Law No 189 of 2016, providing that the recovery of the levy suspended in favour of persons other than holders of income from undertakings and self-employment, as well as operators of agricultural activities, starts from 16 January 2019, instead of 31 May 2018, with the simultaneous installment of the payment of the amounts suspended in 60 monthly instalments of the same amount, instead of the 24 currently planned. In addition, the forecast that the insufficient and late non-payment of one or more instalments involves the entry in the role of the amounts due and not paid, and the penalties for them, is added. It is also laid down that in the event of repentance of the taxpayer, registration in the role of the taxpayer shall not be carried out. Paragraph 1 (b) also provides for the extension of the suspension of the payment of social security contributions and insurance premiums, postponing the starting date of the reimbursement from May 2018 to January 2019, while providing for the possibility of extending the period of installment from the current 24 to sixty months. Paragraph 2 extends from 1 January 2019 the time limits for the notification of payment records and for the collection of the amounts resulting from the acts referred to in Articles 29 and 30 of Decree-Law No 78 of 31 May 2010, i.e. the acts issued by the Revenue Agency and the INPS. The provisions of paragraphs 3 to 5 provide for the suspension of the payment of the RAI fee until 31 December 2020 and the resumption of collection, without the application of sanctions and interest, from 1 January 2021. In particular, the objective scope for such suspension affects a total of 138 municipalities earthquaked, as identified by the legislation in force. The rule under consideration also provides for the payment of the amounts temporarily suspended by instalments of the following characteristics: up to a maximum of 24 monthly instalments of the same amount, non-application of penalties and interest, as from 1 January 2021. Again, in the event of insufficient, late or non-payment of one or more instalments, or of the single instalment, the amounts due and not paid, as well as, in that case, the corresponding penalties and interest, are to be entered in the register, provided that the relevant folder is notified, penalty of forfeiture, by 31 December of the third year following that of expiry of the single instalment or the repayment period. On the other hand, registration is not carried out if the taxpayer makes use of the institution of repentance. Paragraph 6 amends Article 2-a, paragraph 24, of Decree-Law No 148 of 2017, intervening on the suspension of payments of invoices and utilities related to electricity, water and gas supply services, as well as for insurance and telephony sectors. In particular, it is established that the suspension is deferred until January 1, 2019 for those who declare with a specific self-certification the impossibility of the building, home, professional studio or company. I will therefore dwell on the paths contained in the decree-law, which was born as an extension of tax and tax obligations. I would like to give a brief picture of the numbers related to the emergency management provided by the head of the Civil Protection Department, Dr Borrelli, and by the Extraordinary Commissioner of the Government for Reconstruction, Dr Paola De Micheli, whom I thank for the contributions they have made to the Commission, in order to highlight the problems that make it necessary, almost two years after the earthquake, some changes to the regulatory framework. As regards the forms of assistance to the population, the Head of Civil Protection, at the hearing at the Special Commission, reported that in the aftermath of 30 October 2016, the number of persons who could not return to their homes increased considerably; from 4,800 persons assisted in early September, to more than 30,000 persons assisted in the first week of November, until today to a total of 50,157 people, of whom 38,668 beneficiaries of the contribution for autonomous accommodation (CAS), 7,125 in emergency housing solutions (SAE), 2,341 in hotels, 781 in temporary rural emergency housing modules (MAPRE), 722 in container modules and campers provided by Civil Protection, as well as 520 in other facilities. The data I have quoted give the dimension of the tragedy that these areas have had to suffer and above all the continuation in time of seismic events that have caused damage to buildings that had already been shaken. I would also like to recall, as reported in the report on the earthquake of Central Italy 2016-2017 of the Extraordinary Commissioner of the Government, that seismic events have affected a territory of almost 8,000 square kilometers, of which 2,000 square kilometers inserted in protected areas or natural parks, and inhabited by about 600,000 people. The buildings existing in the territory of the four Regions are 185,541, of which 162,991 with residential destination, for a total of 340,000 houses, 30 percent of which are empty or occupied by non-residents. Finally, I would like to focus on the data on the checks carried out on the building stock affected by seismic events, showing that over 250,000 controls were carried out on the stability of buildings: 4,600 on public buildings, 5,800 on churches and cultural heritage and the remaining part on private building stock. More than 6,500 technicians have been credited with the damage census, and I believe that my personal thanks go to the whole House. The figures given above clearly show that it was essential, during the examination of the measure, to carry out an analysis that went beyond the areas of intervention of the decree-law, as adopted by the previous Government, taking into account that, in addition to the question of the suspension of tax and contributory payments, there are several issues related to the reconstruction of absolute importance for the populations involved. To this end, even in a short period of time, a series of hearings was held, during which the Head of the Civil Protection Department, the Special Commissioner, the mayors of some Municipalities of Marche and Abruzzo, the mayors of some Municipalities of Isola d'Ischia, business and professional organisations and some technical experts of the sector were audited. The need to extend the Commissarial structure and the state of emergency from 31 December 2018 to 31 December 2020 has emerged from several quarters, to create areas equipped for owners of second homes for a period which coincides with the completion of reconstruction operations on original buildings, to extend the suspension of loans, to extend the income support measures - the so-called derogation fund - to exempt companies from the payment of the public land occupation tax for reconstruction, at least in historic centres and red areas, to finance measures to adapt to fire and sanitation legislation, as well as adaptation measures to remove architectural barriers, to accelerate procedures for light reconstruction. The post-sysm reconstruction phase appears to be slowed not only by the continuation of the shocks, but also by slight urban and building discrepancies on buildings that prevent the continuation of the procedure for granting contributions. On this point, the Special Commission for the examination of urgent acts presented by the Government, in agreement between all political forces (as happened with almost all the issues) has tried with great commitment (but unfortunately, at the moment, without success), to find a solution to those problems, which, by example, can consist of a window moved by 30 cm or a wall moved by 40 cm, which today do not allow, for these small discrepancies, the acquittal of urban conformity by the technician and therefore access to the contribution. I believe that an effort must be made in this respect and that the House can also try to do so. If we fail to conclude the discussion of this issue in this House, it will at least have to give strong indications for the House of Members, who will be able to revisit it. There is therefore the greatest willingness on the part of the rapporteur to work even in the next few hours, to try to understand whether it will be possible to intervene in a sensible and concrete way on the issue already in this House. I would also like to thank the luck that has made it possible for mayors and local administrators to be present within the special committee, who live on their own every day, these issues and these problems: their contribution has been fundamental to the work of the Commission. Going back to the requests made in the audition cycle, it has been asked to postpone the deadline for the presentation of the documentation established for the interventions of immediate execution and to foresee the compatibility between the deduction due for the interventions of seismic security of the buildings (the so-called bonus earthquake) and any public contributions paid for the reconstruction or restoration of buildings affected by seismic events. It has been asked to accelerate the revival of the productive fabric of the areas hit hard by the earthquake, supporting productive investments, which also allow small companies to access the benefits provided by the legislation. In the course of the constructive debate between the various parliamentary groups in the Commission, a number of amendments were adopted, which largely took up the requests made by the various parties heard during the hearings. 42 amendments in total, six of which have been drawn up and six identical ones, have been adopted - I quote a few figures - so there are 30 issues we have dealt with, I think almost all of them with a very broad, if not unanimous vote. The first amendment that I wish to highlight with respect to the amendments adopted is the one proposed and accepted by the Commission, which provides for the extension of the state of emergency to 31 December 2018. It is a proposal that of course can be revised later, in order to extend this term further with the budget law that will be made by this Government, which will be able to allocate even more resources on the issue of the earthquake, as President Conte has already announced. At the beginning of the report, I made it clear that not everything has been successful. There are some issues that we have not been able to touch and some problems that we have not been able to solve. From the territory it has emerged the necessity to verify some possibilities. I am referring, for example, to the props (which have a cost) of buildings that will have to be demolished and that probably do not have a need for props or the question of rubble: the rubble of many collapsed buildings must be carried to landfill, but perhaps there are alternative solutions to recover those stones that are so important from the urban and environmental point of view for that territory. There will have to be urban reflection on the extensive reconstruction. This theme highlights the general need for the country to review its norms in this matter: the urban law of our country is seventy years old and I believe that this Assembly must take the commitment to understand what are the contemporary tools that we can give to our country in order to face the urban emergencies of our suburbs. Turning, therefore, to the issues raised in the special committee, which have then been approved of amendments and reiterated the extension of the state of emergency, there are provisions on the creation of areas equipped for owners of second homes. We wanted to address a very heartfelt theme: large parts of the territory affected by the earthquake are composed of buildings used by families who live in another part of the country, but who used those buildings as second houses, not so much for holidays, but for a rooting at their origins, which is fundamental to carry forward. We intended, therefore, to propose the creation of some areas equipped for campers, to give these families the opportunity to go to those areas and continue to feel that strong connection with their origins, although their home has been destroyed. We wanted to include in the contributions the costs for fire-fighting adjustments and for overcoming architectural barriers. We have reiterated that, within the scope of the call for economic support, the burden on public land employment is also included: this is a very often significant cost, especially for construction sites that will have to last many years. We have put in place a rule that raises the SOA threshold for business reconstruction through private procurement. There is an amendment which provides for a request, by law, to the Commissioner, which will have to deal with a very sensitive issue and which we have often heard mentioned in the hearings: legal clarity. The Commission's structure has, I believe, issued 59 orders, some of which are still in suspension, on a full-bodied regulatory system, which Parliament has retouched many times, rightly because the requirements changed over time and there was a need to adapt the regulatory instruments. This means that today a technician who has to draw up the practice for the application for the contribution does not have a single text on which to work, but is faced with jagged legislation. We have therefore asked for a single interpretative guideline so as to facilitate the work of technicians. We have approved an amendment for the extension of municipal loans and allowances for mayors. We have approved some rules for simplification of legislation. We have approved extensions for the suspension of private loans and for companies up to 2020-2021. We wanted to reopen the deadlines for the submission of applications concerning the extensions to 31 December 2018 of the IRPEF and IRES deadlines and to insert a derogation rule, of course in agreement with the Municipalities, as regards separate collection, since we cannot today ask municipalities so seriously affected to proceed to the achievement of the objectives on separate collection, so it was right to give a signal in this regard. We have also considered exemptions in the red zone for users and dealt with the issue of pending condons, which have not yet seen the issue of certificates of habitability and agibilità due to lack of documentation and which therefore hold the applications for contribution. In this sense we wanted to combine the process of access to the contribution, therefore the design of the building, to the practice of existing pardon. We wanted to heal a situation that has been created in different parts of the territory, that is that of owners of destroyed or severely damaged houses who wanted to build, in an extemporaneous way, a small housing building next to their own house, in their own land of relevance, to stay close to their own domus, therefore to their own land. The situations that presented discrepancies are obviously seen as emerging and will be demolished at the end of the emergency, then the issue of the certificate of agibility of the main building; however we could not think that these people, who made an effort to stay on those lands, just to give a signal of proximity, were hit by the prosecutor who was investigating against any crimes. We have prepared the continuation of income support measures throughout 2018. Finally, moving on to the last two issues, for companies with more than 400 employees, the integration fund was proposed by way of derogation for the first six months of 2019. This is a topic that this Government knows well; a crisis table will continue in days for one of the largest companies in the territory. I would like to thank the proposers of the amendment that put this issue at the centre, giving the Minister that he will open that negotiation the instruments to try to give a greater margin to the solution of a problem that will certainly have to see in the industrial plan of that enterprise the most definite and sure answer; however, having the availability of six months of cash integration by way of derogation gives a guarantee, especially to the employees that that that job does not want to lose it, of having the tools to continue to survive being affected at the same time, as well as from a crisis linked to the earthquake, also from a difficulty of the production plant itself. Finally, we have addressed a very important issue concerning the Eagle earthquake in 2009. I am referring to the contributions received from companies for which there is an infringement procedure because they are deemed to be State aid. First of all, I would like to point out that the Commissioner of the European Union has been open and willing to resolve this problem together with the Government, but certainly a signal that absolutely needed to be given was to engage the Government in this negotiation. This is what has been proposed, but above all the deadline for the submission of comments and communications by companies has been deferred compared to the procedure which expired in July. This deadline has been extended precisely to give time to the Government to start negotiations, which I hope will bring a definitive solution to this problem which, if not resolved, will lead many companies to failure. This is something that we absolutely cannot afford to do, because - I repeat - we are talking about an area that has suffered a drama both human and material. So we need, with the strong commitment of the Government, shown also in the Commission, to solve this problem and give more certainty to those companies. I repeat my thanks to all those who have contributed to the work of the special Commission, which has worked very hard but with great skill and competence. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-SP Groups, whose senators stand up, and from Senator Errani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-13.ana.u8	I thank Senator Patuanelli for his report. I would remind you that the debate on the measure will continue at 4.30 p.m. on Tuesday, 26 June. The sub-amendments to the amendments adopted by the Commission will have to be tabled by 7 p.m. today. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-13.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-13.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-13.ana.u11	TRENTACOSTE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, two days ago, the House of the Municipal Council of Nicosia, the Sicilian hinterland municipality in the province of Enna, was peacefully occupied by a group of farmers and farmers, who want to express their great discomfort about the delays accumulated for years in the delivery of the contributions provided for in the 2014-20 Rural Development Programme. These are the contributions to agriculture and animal husbandry, sectors of important importance, especially for a region with a strong agricultural vocation such as Sicily, but I am also thinking of Sardinia and most of the South of Italy, where these activities can represent a flywheel for the local economy and a new source of income and employment for our young people too. Every year, rural entrepreneurs are struggling with an overwhelming bureaucracy to meet the deadlines set by the RDP and thus have the opportunity to access the funds, putting great hopes in them, but after years liquidity is rarely available and farms and zootechnics find themselves forced, once again, to wait and suffer. Colleagues, it is no longer conceivable that the rural development of our country is hindered by highly bureaucratic procedures, inherited from a political class failure. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There are about 4,600 young people who have submitted the request for settlement, now almost a year ago, and still do not know whether or not they will be able to start their own company in Sicily. There are hundreds of companies in the agrozootechnical sector waiting to receive the payment of the ban on organic crops of 2015, 2016 and 2017; payments blocked for three years due to anomalies generated by a computer system that is forcing farmers and farmers to borrow to survive, seeing their companies go to collapse. To these workers I give my full solidarity. Addressing them my first speech in the Assembly, I immediately undertake to take charge of their requests, urging the responsible parties, first of all Agea, to find, together with the government authority, a solution to this serious problem that hinders the development of rural production activities and the development of the territory and large areas of our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-13.ana.u12	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-13.ana.u13	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 26 June, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 9:36 a.m.
