ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 9.34 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Castaldi, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 840. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report and the general debate took place. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u5	Mr President, I would like to refer to yesterday's report. At this point, I think it's more important that the government responds, if you think so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u6	I call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u7	Mr President, I will make a quick reply to this question to reiterate the opinion we have given on the decree-law before us, which does not change after the debate we have been witnessing. Beyond controversy based on the past, the criticisms we have made about this decree relate in particular to the lack of new and binding measures to ensure truly more security for citizens. Moreover, the rules introduced on the migration issue will make the country more insecure, because they will increase the dimension of clandestineness and will rage on figures who are not guilty. The children who were born in our country and who today, in order to have citizenship after eighteen years, will have to wait no longer only twenty-four months, but forty-eight months; they are not guilty of the people who are here with a regular residence permit for humanitarian reasons, who will rush into hiding when that residence permit will not be renewed because the requirements that had determined its release have been removed. Our judgment therefore does not change; we would have liked to hear from the benches of the Government and from the forces of majority their own reasons or arguments of merit to counter the statements that we have advanced. Instead, we have heard a series of general evaluations that confirm us that this is a manifest law, that serves to give the idea that we take care of the security of Italians and that we identify an enemy in immigration and we think of frightening those who are hungry, those who are desperate, those who are not free, announcing a hard life in case they come to our country. It seems to me that our assessment has not been opposed to the substance of the debate. Therefore, the opinion we have expressed in the minority report remains the same and we continue to think that the decree-law at our examination is useless, harmful and - let me say this - horrible from a humanitarian point of view. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u8	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a brief reply from the Government in the light of the important, useful and interesting debate that took place yesterday in this House, but also in the light of the many points of interest and loyal confrontation that have taken place in the Commission during the three days when so much and good work has been done on a very important decree-law for the Government, the majority and - I dare say - particularly for the country. In my brief reply, I would like to begin by thanking Parliament and all the political forces of majority and opposition; by majority for the suggestions, reflections and improvements to the text which have been proposed and accepted with joy and satisfaction by the Government. I will then explain to you the reasons why we have always said and said that this was an important measure, which could not be demolished and dismantled, but which had to be improved. I believe that the majority but also the opposition amendments which have been tabled go in exactly this direction. I therefore believe that the work done has been useful and has led to improvements in the text. I say this starting from an aspect of the decree-law that has been the subject of less attention, at least in the parliamentary debate and that instead with regard to the Government represents a qualifying point of its action and of what contained in the measure itself. I am referring in particular to the issue of combating organised crime and mafias, a subject which must unite and not divide, which must see all national policy moving in the same direction. In contrast to organised crime and mafias, the country, Parliament and politics cannot be divided. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] I have appreciated, and I say this after ten years of politics, that on these issues - from the extraordinary plan against the mafias, the new anti-mafia code, the establishment of the National Agency for the Administration and the destination of property seized and confiscated from organised crime - fortunately Parliament has never divided between right and left forces, because the fight against organised crime cannot and must not be political. Fortunately, we have always worked well, all oriented in the same direction. The decree-law in question, with regard to the fight against organised crime, goes exactly in the direction of giving an important response on an aspect that has been correctly and rightly pointed out to me several times also by my colleague Mirabelli: organised crime and mafias are also opposed but not only through the police instrument. Arrests and precautionary measures and prisons against mobsters are necessary, but organized crime is seriously opposed through the subtraction of property to mobsters, attacking their assets acquired in an illegal and mafia way. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] It is with the removal of this mountain of movable and corporate property that organized crime is attacked. In this decree-law we try to strengthen one of the tools created to combat organized crime, that is the National Agency, through a serious and important strengthening of men, endowing it with new officials, qualified and professional, who can work for the purpose for which the Agency was created, with the possibility of having territorial dislocations and therefore allowing it to have seats detached from North to South precisely to attack on the territories, therefore close to the citizens, the assets of the mobsters. We have also arranged to speed up the procedures of seizure, confiscation and readmission to society, to the community and to the civilization of the stolen goods, as well as a reduction of the bureaucracy that has often and willingly caused slowing down, particularly as regards the possibility of reusing companies that lived through a mafia system and that, once removed from organized crime, risked going into decoction; well, we wanted to recover them in order to create induced and employment and therefore positive energy situations on the territory. It has also been done to speed up processes, simplify procedures and remove all bureaucratic obstacles that made this process too slow and cumbersome and hindered the purpose for which the good, once stolen, had to be put back into society's availability. In particular, the instrument of sale has been envisaged, which we have considered appropriate by sharing with legal practitioners and by implementing all possible and imaginable guarantees and requirements. The Agency still has "in the belly" about 16,000-17,000 real estate and companies that have not been able to make available to the community and the institutional and social aims for which the Agency is born: we have therefore considered to sell them precisely with the aim of putting the good back in a virtuous and not vicious circle, obviously with all the prescriptions aimed at preventing that the good can return to the hands of the mobster or his forerunner and to foresee an immediate and effective action if this should happen anyway. In addition, this will allow us, by accepting an amendment by my colleague Mirabelli, whom I have shared, to allocate part of the money from the sale to the benefit of the local authority. In recent years we have asked the local authorities to take responsibility for the seized and stolen assets, their restructuring and accommodation, precisely to make them available to the community. Often and willingly mayors, local administrations and territories do not have the economic resources to take such initiatives. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Therefore, with the amendment of Senator Mirabelli we will place part of these resources in a fund at the Ministry of the Interior and they will be made available to local authorities, precisely to preserve the purpose, which is not touched and remains such, of making available the good for social and institutional purposes of the local agency, but also for many associations, ONLUS and virtuous organizations that fight on the territory to combat organized crime. Therefore, I believe that the provisions on organised crime and the National Agency for the Administration and Destination of property seized and confiscated from organised crime (which, moreover, transpose the requests from the Agency itself) go in an absolutely virtuous direction. I hope that Parliament will not split up on this point, but will be able to give a clear and strong response in terms of combating organised crime. In fact, the nerve for the Ministry of the Interior, the President of the Council of Ministers and the whole Government is that the fight against organized crime is done without if and without but, door to door, precisely because the mafia, not only with this Government, but also with this Government, must have no chance of continuing to perpetrate its own traffic. [[Applause from the Groups and L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S.]] I say this to the dignity of the Government, but above all to the dignity and respect of Parliament. Another equally important and significant part of the measure concerns immigration. I say this very clearly, taking up the speeches made by some of my colleagues, especially the opposition and, in particular, the Democratic Party. This is not a manifest decree of propaganda. In fact, it could not be a decree-law of forty articles, which intervenes on the fight against organized crime, on a serious management of migratory flows and on a serious, fast and rapid management of asylum applications in our country. Never in the past has an organic, structural and system reform been adopted, while we have the ambition to promote it with the decree-law under consideration. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] I say this by bringing to the attention of Parliament a very significant figure in my opinion. I am referring to the landing figure, which is, of course, the precondition for everything we wanted to include in the measure. From 1st June 2018 to today 8,737 migrants have landed on our territory; in the same period last year (i.e. from 1st June to 6th November 2017) 53,743 migrants have landed on the Italian territory. The reduction in the last five months (since there is a majority of League and Movimento 5 Stars) is therefore 83 percent. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] This is an important and significant fact, the result of work to defend borders and borders and cooperation and cooperation. You will remember well that in July last Parliament converted a decree-law that strengthens relations with the Libyan authority, making available about 12 patrol boats, so that the Libyans are finally equipped with an SAR area and a national coordination centre in order to defend and control the borders, rescue and rescue at sea and then bring migrants to Libyan territory. The first significant fact - I repeat - is therefore that we are now registering an 83% reduction in the number of landings. I said that, in terms of immigration, the reform is organic. I say immediately, in the absence of misunderstandings, that in recent years our country has been marked in a serious way for the protection of the rights of migrants. In fact, I dare say that no other European country has defended the dignity of those who have a better right to asylum than our country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Therefore, our country does not take lessons of dignity and protection of the rights of migrants by any European country, in a particular way - may I say - on the issue of unaccompanied foreign minors. In fact, unaccompanied foreign minors in our country are not rejected, unlike, for example, what happens in France, where they reject them. Italy does not reject, Italy does not return, Italy does not expel unaccompanied foreign minors. So the threshold of protection of rights was high and high remains, as it is right that it is in a civil and democratic country like ours. What are we going to fight? We are going to fight waste, we are going to increase controls and we are going to do an integration, as Mrs Pirovano said yesterday, based entirely on her intervention on the concept of integration. Integration is an important concept. However, for there to be integration, there is a need for two subjects: the integration state and the migrant person who gives their willingness to integrate. We expect this through a mechanism, that of guaranteeing all forms of integration towards those who have obtained a form of international protection. With regard to those who have obtained a residence permit through a form of international protection there will be every possible and imaginable form of integration: there will be social integration, social inclusion and all those services that our system provides. Of course, this cannot be foreseen with regard to the simple asylum seeker, to whom we will guarantee reception and all primary services, but who, precisely because asylum seeker with an application still in progress, will obviously enjoy protection, albeit guaranteed, slightly less than that of those who are subject to a form of international protection. I say this, because it is absolutely not true the affirmation of those who claim that the protection system for asylum seekers and refugees (SPRAR), that is, the secondary reception and the widespread reception, has been dismantled, as Senator Bonino reminded us yesterday. The SPRAR centres are not being dismantled at all, but are being efficient, because the logic and policy of this Government is not to spend less, but to spend better. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] In fact, EUR 4.6 billion can not be spent on paid and perhaps not paid services, compared to which no one in recent years has ever been eager to check whether certain services (I am thinking of linguistic mediation, cultural mediation, training, territorial observance and psychological support) have actually been carried out. I believe that it is the duty of a serious government, when it spends a flood or a mountain of money on reception and integration, to ensure that this money is actually spent, but above all that these services are actually provided. This is why proudly we, on so many of these services, will go to carry out more and more checks than those that have been done in the past. Therefore, the SPRAR system is not clearly dismantled, while one of the fundamental and pivotal elements of this Government's action is being implemented: the policy of return and expulsion. I stress that a country like ours, which makes between 5,000 and 6,000 returns and expulsions a year, obviously makes too few expulsions and too few returns. In order to do expulsions and repatriations, of course, we need agreements. We were reminded yesterday that our country has four bilateral readmission agreements; one of them works in an integral way, which actually works in half, the one with Tunisia. In fact, we should repatriate about 4,000 Tunisians every year, but we have repatriated them until last year 1,800; so it means that the agreement is there and works, but it can be improved. The objective of this Government is evidently to improve the agreement that exists and to implement it. At this moment, Minister Salvini is returning from Ghana, precisely because Ghana is one of those countries, like others, with respect to which return policies and policies of economic cooperation and collaboration, within which to anticipate reserves for return and expulsion, are clearly one of our main actions. However, in order to be able to do the repatriations and expulsions, our government must do its homework. And their tasks are to have more Centers of Stay for Return (CPR). Today we have six CPRs for 800 seats, totally insufficient to manage those 500,000 or 600,000 illegal and irregular immigrants present on our territory, who, by political will, but also by legal provisions, must be repatriated. Article 2 goes exactly in this direction: to have more CPR, obviously in agreement with the territorial authorities, to have more space available for the CPR and to bring the period of detention from ninety to one hundred and eighty days, perfectly in line with the European directives. The European Return Directive provides for the possibility of extending detention to 18 months. We believe that one hundred and eighty days, six months, are sufficient and appropriate time to arrive at the identification of the subject and to be able to open with the country of readmission all those procedures and mechanisms that can allow the return itself. We put funds, half of the national government and half of the European institutions, not only for police returns, but also to make assisted voluntary returns. A 12 million euro ban has just been banned from the Ministry of the Interior in order to be able to return 2,700 irregular immigrants to some countries with which our country has no readmission policies. Therefore, with the policy of assisted voluntary returns we pay to train the irregular migrant and send him back to his country, where he can actually be a resource useful for his development. We believe that these measures go exactly in that direction: increasing returns. We insert the list of safe countries and the obvious unfoundedness of the application, which do not remove any right to the migrant. This simply allows us two things: to be able to have accelerated asylum or return procedures, in case the irregular migrant obviously has to be repatriated [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] , and to enable the asylum seeker to know whether or not his application will be granted. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] You see, when we arrived at the Ministry - and I tell my friends on the left - we found something like 140,000 pending asylum applications; I repeat, 140,000 pending asylum applications: it is a huge one, which, fortunately, thanks to the activity of the territorial commissions, has been reduced to 110,000. But we still have 110,000 asylum applications pending. Evidently this takes away time and money, and does not give guarantees to the asylum seeker. For this reason we considered it appropriate to set up another ten territorial committees and hire another 172 officials - in addition to the 250 we had already hired in July - to clear all asylum applications within a few months, so as to give certainties and guarantees to our country. The list of safe countries goes exactly in this direction. It is surprising that almost all European countries have got this list, while our country and the governments that preceded the current one have not considered it appropriate to have this instrument of guarantee of our State. This is the direction we have taken. We also envisage accelerated return procedures. It was unacceptable, for example, for the irregular migrant, placed on the flight ladder to be repatriated, to have the possibility (because this is always a guarantee possible), even when the expulsion was carried out, to be able to submit an application for asylum which would have restarted, as in a vicious circle, the whole reception system. Here too, we believe that accelerated asylum procedures, on the one hand, and accelerated return procedures, on the other hand, should be necessary conditions for improving a system which has obviously not worked and which has been left to us. There is still one important, fundamental element, and for this reason I would particularly like to thank my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars. I believe that one of the fundamental elements in terms of reception and integration, since we are talking about public money (because 99% are public funds of Italian citizens), is the following: Italian citizens have the sacrosanct right to know that money as it is spent. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] There is the sacrosanct right to have a traceability and publicity of those funds, and to have their reliable and secure reporting. This is why, by collecting an absolutely virtuous amendment that goes exactly in the direction of the prerogatives of the Government and the majority of the League and the Movimento 5 Stars, we considered it appropriate to oblige the social cooperatives, of whatever political color, to report on their site, euros for euros, cents per cent, the ways in which this money is spent. This goes in the direction of guarantee and transparency: the Court of Auditors asks us to pay more attention to controls; controls which probably have not been done in the past; of course, this does not lead me to condemn anyone at all, but I believe it is a guarantee from all of us - and especially from every Member of Parliament - to know that finally there is a government that will control, 100th per cent, public money that is spent on an area on which, unfortunately, Mafia capital has taught us that for some people the management of immigration makes much more than drugs. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups and Senator Perosino]] That is why we want to reset this ill-advised and unclear system because I believe that a serious government should be in this direction. I'm going to conclude by touching on two issues. First of all, the possibility for local police, for the territories and for the mayors to share better and more in the control of their territory; the possibility of extending the use of the taser, which is now used experimentally by the national police forces, also to local police. At the same time, the possibility for local police to access the data banks of the CED in order to immediately get the feedback if the subject stopped is or not dangerous goes clearly in the direction of being able to guarantee greater security to the territories and to allow local police, territories and mayors to have better control and a better prevention of the territory, besides to predict - extremely important fact - that mayors, territories and local autonomouss will finally be able to return to assume local police precisely in order to better control the territory. Again, in response to the absolutely virtuous and shared demands that have been put to me by Forza Italia as well as by the Brothers of Italy, I would like to address the issue of security and the implementation of police force personnel. We have considered - it will be so, it will be so, and you will see it when the draft budget law is presented to the attention of Parliament - that this country needed an extraordinary plan of recruitment of the Forces of Order. I say this in a special way - knowing the sensitivity - to my colleague Gasparri: there will be an extraordinary recruitment plan that will lead to employing about 8,000 men in uniform in order to have greater control of the territory, with more men on the territory and more efficient and qualified police officers. I think it is an absolutely qualifying element that this Government wants to invest in security and public order, and it does so not only by hiring more men and more policemen through the extraordinary recruitment plan, but also by recognizing men and women in uniform - which I thank daily for what they do for the security of the country [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S, FI-BP and FdI Groups) -]] the possibility of doing their job with the dignity and pride that have been taken away from them in these years. We do this, for example, by recognizing in the decree-law immigration and security the possibility of finally paying those overtime that had never been paid and that in this measure are finally allocated: 40 million euros to pay overtime to women and men in uniform. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FI-BP and FdI Groups]] President, in conclusion, I believe that this at our examination is an important decree-law, I would say fundamental, because it will finally solve so many problems that this country, for too many years, has not faced: 700,000 landings since 2013 is a huge, impressive number. Immigration is a global phenomenon, I am reminded of it every day, I am fully aware of it. To a global phenomenon the answer should be global. Unfortunately, that was not the case. The answer should have been European and, unfortunately, the European response on the phenomenon of immigration was not there, we have not seen it [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] , because of the fault and responsibility of a Europe far away and insensitive to the problems that our country has had to face in solitude. Therefore, if from a global point of view we are not helped, if from a European point of view we are not helped, this Government does itself, and does it well thanks to its loyalty, correctness and consistency and thanks to an important and extraordinary majority that up to now has loyally supported and supported this Government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u10	I note that a request has been received for no passage to the examination of the articles signed by Senator Marcucci, pursuant to Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure. Since no one intends to intervene, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the proposal not to proceed to the examination of NP1 articles by Senator Marcucci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing it - has received the opinions of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u13	Mr Molteni, Undersecretary of State for the Interior. Mr President, I would like to speak briefly on a request for a suspension until 1 p.m. for the tabling of an amendment. [[Comments from PD and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u14	I would ask if anyone would like to speak on the motion for a suspension tabled by Undersecretary Molteni.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u17	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business, of course, and not in order to declare favour or opposition to the proposal because I think that we are in an unacceptable situation for this House. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We have been held hostage to a political and technical approximation for six days, because I remember the forced entry into the Commission, and a forced entry was requested at the Conference of Leaders in order to be able to schedule this measure in this House from Monday morning at 9.30 a.m. In the face of this forcing, we closed the measure in the Commission on Wednesday afternoon. Wednesday afternoon! It has been six days and in the last few hours, before this long night which obviously did not bring advice and did not loose the reservations and doubts that yesterday the rapporteur Mr Borghesi had said he wanted to try to dissolve, the knot has not been loosed yet, which is a political knot. I think this situation is unacceptable. This provision is dressing up with further names. It was already a propaganda decree, it was already a decree of insecurity, it was already a decree of greater illegality, it was already a decree of uncertainty because no one, not even the passionate intervention of the Undersecretary Molteni, has clarified where the 600,000 people go after its approval. And it is all the less clear - and the name of uncertainty on this point will be strengthened - how it can ask the European Union for help from this country, help without which there is no possibility of closing international agreements that really allow people to be repatriated. To all these appellations, we add then that of being a decree of confusion; yesterday we realized that it is not a confusion between those who are more right in this Government and those who are more left: they are all right, because the brand is unique. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Movimento 5 Stars and League have chosen a cultural approach, although totally inadequate in technical terms, but very clear and evident. It is also clear, and we understood it yesterday, that there is a total mutual misunderstanding about the political strategies of the two parties, Movimento 5 Stars and League. It is not clear to us, however, what has happened and what is still happening in these hours to the extent that it does not allow the Government to proceed either by assessing the amendment measure by amendment or by trusting it, since for twenty-four hours it has been said with certainty that the imposition of confidence will be certain. I think that, out of respect for our work, everything we have done - concentrating it in a short time in the Commission last week - of the Presidency and of this House, this political problem must be resolved as quickly as possible. It has never happened to me that there is a doubt as to whether confidence is being imposed or not and the House and the Presidency - which represents it - are being held hostage for six days: this is unacceptable. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u20	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, perhaps we should inform ourselves when the plane arrives from China and when the plane lands from Ghana to understand how we must proceed. That is the point: the Assembly is hostage [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Leonardo]] of trying to understand the two contracting parties to the government contract how they must get out of this situation. Mr President, you know better than I do - because you were chairing the Conference of Leaders - what has been recommended and told us about the harmonisation of time and the absolute need to adopt this decree-law at all costs by Tuesday. Let's move on with a farce. You want to step up to explain to us how important this measure is, Mr Undersecretary: the answers have continued not to give them - and you know perfectly well - while we are hostage to the attempt to understand what the strategy is; if the League wants to do another operation of enlargement of the Government - because we are talking about this, since it does not want the trust, of course - the 5 Stars will have to decide once and for all whether to hand in arms and luggage. That is what we are talking about, but out of respect for this House and the procedures - and I appeal to you, Mr President - we can no longer tolerate this move, which we have already had in the Commission: we were called at a certain time; after two hours the opinions of the 5th Commission did not arrive, where we did not know what was happening; and we went on like this. Then we arrived in the Chamber: just now there was a vote on a proposal not to go through the articles; do you have any doubts? Would you like to look into it? Do you want more time? Very well, I have already told you: return to the Commission. We must respect the procedures, it is no longer possible that all the debate is extra-parliamentary and takes place in condominium meetings (which however have clearer and more precise rules). So we cannot go on, out of respect for this House and for each one of you. In the last parliamentary term, Members of the Movimento 5 Stars, you would never have tolerated what is happening now, and you know it perfectly well, because we have also waged battles together to enforce Parliament and this House. The debate on trust is already a forced one, and you know that perfectly well, Mr Undersecretary, because there was no need for it, and trusts cannot continue to be put only for internal political needs. This decree-law is already in place and is causing damage to the country: it gives the illusion to the citizens that who knows what will happen and that finally immigration will be governed, but the disappointment will be enormous. When citizens realize you're making fun of them, they won't forgive you and this moment will come very soon. However, I would ask you, Mr President, to enforce this House, the procedures, what we have said and which was established at the Conference of the Leaders. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u23	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, we have had a completely cooperative attitude since the Commission's work. We have tabled a limited but significant number of amendments, which unfortunately have not even been taken into account (except very small exceptions, perhaps 0.2 of the total). We have had the same attitude in this House and I must say that no one has obstructed it, either in the Commission or in this House. Yesterday at 16.30 - 18 hours ago - we were all ready to move on to the amendments. In an official statement we have also publicly given our willingness to vote on the measure, of course without confidence and with the possibility of examining our amendments. Unfortunately, it is not up to us that the government is considering whether to raise the question of trust, even if, after 18 hours, there would have been all the time to decide, beyond the fact that since last week it was well known that we would have had this debate: it is not that it was born yesterday at 16.30 the possibility to put trust in the measure. Amendments were adopted in the Commission. If the government wants to put its trust, do as it has almost always done: take the amendments approved in the Commission and turn them into a single maxi amendment - I do not think we have to teach it, or perhaps I do not know - and put the trust, without making Parliament and the country wait perhaps for reasons of "take-off" or for internal conflicts that then want to be paid to the country. In fact, there is a strong impression here that there is not only a negotiation on the amendments relating to the security decree, but also on the prescription, perhaps on some appointments, on the "manina" of Palazzo Chigi which means his to then blame for something for which no one wants to take responsibility. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] So it takes some seriousness. We are an institution; it is we who must make the laws and we must not wait for "manine" or voices from Palazzo Chigi or from elsewhere. Let us move forward for the dignity of these institutions. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u26	BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, today we have had a pantomime which has lasted for several days. In the Commission we saw a delay from time to time because there was no cover because there was no cover or there was no cover. We were called to come here on Monday because this was a measure that had to be voted on urgently, because the country is looking forward to it. Yesterday, the President said that it would be appropriate to refer the matter back to this morning for further consideration. This morning we saw a very dense and very thorough report by the rapporteur, which made us understand why he needed the night to make the speech he gave this morning. I would give you a council, Undersecretary Molteni: since you are not in a position to decide why the two Vice Presidents of the Council are around the world, withdraw the measure and start again, when you will be present and you will have clear ideas. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u29	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, we too take the view that the situation of uncertainty has been going on for a long time. Unfortunately, we know how the work in the Commission went: many of our amendments have been declared inadmissible. We have had a particularly closed attitude on the part of the Government, and it is still not clear where the Commission wants to go at the moment. So, as far as we're concerned, we want government clarity on this position. Do you want to put your trust in it? Put your trust in it. Do you want the vows of Brothers of Italy? Let us examine all the amendments one by one and, at the end of the measure, there will be the votes of Brothers of Italy. But decide what you want to do. Thank you. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u32	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I have asked for the floor to announce, of course, the opposition of the Senators of the Democratic Party when the request for suspension of work is put to the vote, but allow me to add something and also to address your person. You certainly know, also because we have passed several legislatures together, what is the respect that I have for you and that I want to confirm here now, publicly, in the Senate. At this moment, however, Mr President, there are values at stake which go far beyond the question of a mere suspension of the sitting, even if it is serious. You know very well how important it took you at the Conference of the Leaders to anticipate the work of the Assembly to Monday, because it is true, as the Senator said, that the Senate is open from Monday to Friday, but it is also true that Monday, in my memory, the Senate has never held in the last years of the sessions, among other things of this importance. What I want to put before you, however, is a matter that I consider to be much more serious. On Sunday, an important Italian weekly came out with the title "Zombie Parliament" on the cover and then, in its internal opening, there was talk of Parliament of ghosts. I am telling you honestly that I would have expected the President of the Senate and the President of the House to have a reaction, some kind of defence of Parliament's dignity, the request for a correction to be made publicly attest to Parliament's functional existence. If I have to tell you the truth, reflecting on the fact that this reaction by the Presidents of the House and the Senate has not been there, I think this is due to the fact that there was something true in that title, that is, contempt for Parliament, which comes from afar, but that in this last phase it is giving final blows. We are starting again, in fact, President, with the practice of draft laws, decrees-laws, major amendments, vote of confidence, with Parliament continuously exonerated, with oppositions that never see their amendment, an important observation recognized by them, in a situation that I believe must be considered precisely by the Presidents of the House and the Senate. You, Mr President, represent the Senate (this says our Rules of Procedure) and I believe that you have, among your duties and - allow me - also among your duties to defend Parliament. And this can also be done by putting his authority at stake in order to prevent such scenes as we are witnessing this morning from happening again. I appeal to you, President, because I know your person and I also know your attachment to the rules. He has demonstrated this in Parliament and demonstrated this in the Supreme Council of the judiciary. I believe that in the spirit of Parliament's work there is also a need to prevent the government from teasing it in the way that the government of our country is doing it now. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u33	Since the Assembly does not agree with the request for suspension, I shall put it to the vote. It's approved. Mr Ferrari (PD). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved. I therefore suspend the sitting until 1 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 10.31 a.m. and resumed at 1.06 p.m.) The session is resumed. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u34	Mr President, I would like to inform the House that the amendment has been tabled and is to the Ministry of Economy and Finance for boiling. I would therefore ask for a postponement until 4.30 p.m. [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u37	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I do not understand what is happening and I ask you for help. We are now at the third or fourth postponement; as we have already mentioned in the morning, this measure came out of the Commission six days ago; we were called to work yesterday morning at 9.30 a.m.; today the Undersecretary was very good in reply after the general debate, but obviously he did not know what he was talking about since the amendment he had just announced had not yet been written and it was not yet known what it contained. Mr President, the House does not yet know this amendment, there is a new regulation and you must give an opinion on that amendment. I believe that this attitude of the Government and the majority is unsustainable and unacceptable. They are trampling Parliament again. You have a duty to defend the Senate from shame [[Applause from the PD Group]] and from the spectacle that this Government and this majority are giving on important issues for our country such as security, or more likely the insecurity they are guaranteeing to our country. AIROLA (M5S). You're a broken record! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's finish Senator Marcucci. Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, the fact that we are speaking during my appeal shows that they are not even aware of the insult they are making to our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] and the shame that should prove the 5 Star Movimento and the League after what has been said in the last five years. Mr President, I would ask you to bring the Conference of Leaders together immediately. This is a situation that requires immediate clarity on its part, as well as an attitude towards the Government and these political forces that are causing shame and discredit.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u38	Senator Marcucci, you have so much experience that you know how many times in the past legislatures we have witnessed referrals. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI groups. Senator Marcucci's protests. Comments from the PD and Mixed-LEU Groups.]] Senator Marcucci, let me finish. This is a decree that does not pass on the head of the Senate, because the text has been deepened in the Commission and, moreover, you have all repeatedly urged that there be thorough work in the Commissions for the centrality that has been given by the new Rules of Procedure to the Commissions. [[Comments of Senator Marcucci]] If you let me finish, I'll finish my reasoning. That is why I hope that the question of trust will be an instrument which will not be overused. I would add that this is the first time in this legislature that this request has been made to the Senate. That's what I said... [[Live comments from Senators Marcucci and Verducci]] If you're done... Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I have not finished. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Terms, then, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u39	In the meantime, I have not understood whether the question of trust has been raised. The Secretary referred to an amendment, you refer to the Commission's work, so you are telling us that this amendment will only contain the amending proposals adopted in the Commission: are you telling us? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I am recalling the Rules of Procedure. You have to let me finish, Mr President. I demand the respect you demand. I would add that there are no precedents of this kind: six days after a measure has been removed from the Commission, a fourth postponement, we have to come on Monday morning and not be able to work in this House. [[Live comments from M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups]] You must be ashamed! You must all be ashamed! Shame on you! [[Protests from M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u42	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I would also like to address my fellow Members. In the last parliamentary term we have always questioned the fact that the question of trust was repeatedly raised, because it had become the norm. But that is another matter, Mr President. Now, I don't know: have they asked you privately for trust? The question of trust has not been raised here! The real problem here is that yesterday we finished the general discussion, the rapporteur stood up and asked to be able to reflect in order to make the replies; this morning he reflected and clearly decided that he had been convinced by our motives, so he passed the word to the Government, and the Undersecretary again explained to us the magnificences of the decree itself. But have you, Mr President, seen Mr Fraccaro? Did you see anything? Another time we were asked for a suspension, as was done yesterday, and as happened in the Commission: we spent the days there to reconvene and wait for another call from hour to hour, two hours in two hours. The point is the defence of this House: what must we do in this House? Tell us. Do we need to make a private phone call to the two contenders, who may have gathered somewhere and decided to ask the question of trust, or are they still looking at whether the prescription is okay or not? These are the procedures, Mr President. Someone must come here on behalf of the Government, put their trust, you must express your opinion on the amendment. On the other hand, the opposite is the case here: we are being asked for another suspension and the Undersecretary informs us that they have prepared a major amendment, which, in our view, means that the question of trust is raised. You understand, Mr President, that although you have seen so many in this House, this is the first time it has happened. Mr President, I am therefore very determined to restore order in the procedures and also in the political dynamics of which we are now victims. I called them political dynamics, but maybe it's better to talk about dynamics related to agreements and counter-agreements. At this point I would ask you officially, Mr President, to convene the Conference of Leaders, because in this way you cannot go on: you cannot come here and ask for another suspension, take the vote, and maybe when we come back they will have changed their minds: someone will get up and say that he was wrong, that there was no major amendment and then we will use another procedure. You understand, Mr President, that this is, indeed, to put your feet in the face of each of us, even of you, even of the majority. The problem concerns not only those who are opposed, but the whole House and the respect of all of us, the rules and procedures. That is why I would ask you, Mr President, calmly to convene the Conference of Leaders. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u45	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I was a little surprised by the animosity of my fellow Members, who seemed to be more addressed to the President than to those who asked for a postponement. I believe that the President has responded exactly as he should have, recalling the precedents, recalling occasions when similar events have taken place with governments of opposite sign. However, on the part of Brothers of Italy, there is certainly no satisfaction with the progress of the work on this decree-law. There is no satisfaction because, Mr President, we are still uncertain about the fate of the amendments that we have tabled, which have been declared strangely inadmissible in the Commission: it seemed to us a political choice, not a technical one; we have retabled them. This situation prevents us from understanding, where trust is not placed, that there is not yet - everyone is talking about trust, but trust has not yet been placed - whether those amendments have actually been accepted or not, and why not. Therefore, Mr President, having forewarned that we consider the decree-law to be insufficient for our examination, but still a step forward in relation to a development of the past, I address myself without animosity or pretext to the Government asking him to tell us where we have to go. It is not normal to continue to postpone the decision to place trust or not. You can tell us that for boiling it takes time; you can also make us understand - without confessing it - that there is an arm wrestling between incompatible things (the prescription to the House and the decree-law to the Senate) because we suspect it: you cannot tell us, but you can make us understand it, but tell us at least what fate we must die of. Tell us, that is, if there is confidence, if we vote today, if we vote tomorrow. We do not do as the delays of Alitalia, which are announced from hour to time; we are not at the airport, where the delay of an hour appears and, at the end of that hour, the delay of another hour. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Tell us now, truly and irrevocably, what is the programme of this House, which depends on the decisions of the Government. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u48	BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I only speak for clarification. I have listened very carefully to your words, but at some point - and I would like to understand what you have said here - you have made explicit reference to trust. Are there any institutional news that you have received that you are going in this direction? In this case, the request for a further amendment and a postponement seems to be an unnecessary delay. I would not like you, at this moment, to have been in the midst of a problem of the majority which is certainly not up to you to solve and unravel; but we cannot remain in uncertainty either.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u49	As regards the convening of the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups, I will immediately give you the floor at the end of the sitting. As far as the rest is concerned, Senator Bressa, we have been discussing the question of possible trust all day. It seemed to me that even in the intervention of Senator Marcucci, who had addressed me with regard to the various referrals and agencies that came out this morning, all the reasoning was directed on the possible request for a vote of confidence. That's why I responded in these terms. Perhaps it was not the most appropriate way, but beyond the speeches about the various referrals, it is clear, and it was clear, that this could revolve around a possible request for trust. I think I answered your question. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request for suspension of work.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u50	I would like to ask you to speak on the request for suspension, Mr President. You tell me if this is the right time.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u51	The request for suspension shall be allowed to intervene for five minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u52	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I believe that you are accentuating the seriousness of the situation. Is the presidency of the Senate informed via agencies about the government's trust? But where are the institutional relations, where is the correctness of this Executive? Where is the correctness of this majority that does not have the capacity, the will and not even the dignity to intervene in this debate, precisely because you are ashamed of what is happening today? I am opposed to suspension and I think we should finally start working. We were called here at 9.30 a.m. yesterday morning to begin voting on this measure. [[Comments from the M5S Group. Senator Lanzi's lively protests.]] Take the floor! If you have the courage, take the floor! MIRABELLI (PD). Let him speak! Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, you see, one of your colleagues, the authoritative Vice-President La Russa, called me back because I was standing during a debate in this House. That you do not call my colleague who is trying to prevent me from finishing the speech is unacceptable, and I want to tell you this too, it is one of the many abuses that are being done in this House. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We call on the President to take note of this situation and finally to start defending the institution of Parliament and the Senate. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u55	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we are clearly opposed to this suspension, but let me say, Mr President, that you have been seriously embarrassed. That is the point, because this majority and this Government are putting the Assembly, with the constant voices and counter-voices circulating, in a situation which is detrimental to the institution. That is why I, Mr President, asked you to ensure that the rules and procedures were respected. I told you quietly because I understand that we are spending whole days, hours, between tweets and communications. We arrived in the Chamber this morning after reading that Salvini, by plane, had said that this afternoon or at the latest tonight everything would be over. Evidently, we must now receive communications in this way. You understand, Mr President, that it is time to restore the rules clearly and call on the Government and the majority to respect these rules. For this reason, not only because it is unacceptable to continue with the suspension, we are against it even more, because all the rules are being systematically violated. Read to everyone the Rule of the Rules of Procedure which governs the procedures for requesting trust in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u58	BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I very much appreciated your decision to convene the Conference of Leaders at the end of this debate, partly because the rule needs to be restored. You, as President of the Senate, are of very great institutional importance, you have actually announced that the issue of trust is at stake. I believe that, during the Conference of Leaders, you should clarify whether this is a communication that came to you from the Government, which, being present in that forum, has the duty to clarify it; otherwise, any further meeting of ours ends with no more sense, because we are playing outside of any institutional rule and regulation. I am therefore pleased with your decision to convene the Conference of Leaders, during which I hope there will be a solution to this problem, which otherwise opens up a very sensitive issue from an institutional and regulatory point of view.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u61	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, we have already expressed our position on this suspension and on the two previous requests. I repeat that the request made publicly by the Forza Italia Group, both in this House and outside it, is to proceed with a normal procedure. If we had started voting on the amendments yesterday at 4.30 p.m., we would have almost finished the examination - given that, moreover, there are also contingency times - and the House and the senators would have been able to express themselves on each of the many important points, some of which are controversial, while others shared by large majorities, perhaps with different situations on the basis of the various groups. It is true, Mr President, that this is not the first time there has been such a series of referrals, but it is also true that, when it happened, those who are practicing them today criticized very harshly those who postponed. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] It would therefore be appropriate to move more closely towards the dignity of this institution and of our work. Frankly, I do not see why there should be this further waste of time: we are against suspension; we are about to move forward and discuss the measure. The amendments are numerous, but not too many, while on other measures, in this parliamentary term, we have already voted hundreds of times without particular problems: there have been no obstructions and, also thanks to the leadership of the Presidency, there has been a normal and satisfactory progress of work (then the final outcome is another matter, but at least the work has been carried out satisfactorily). We do not see why it should not be so on this very important measure: guaranteeing the security of citizens, in fact, is the first duty of the State and cannot be put below the hagglings within the forces of government. [[Applause from Senator Alderisi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u64	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to announce that we will of course be voting in favour of the suspension. First of all, taking up Senator La Russa's words, let us remember the fact that the President of the Senate is actually doing his job, so the question is never in the dialectic between majority and minority, as it is in things and in the ordinary; it is clear that, if we ask for suspension, you complain: in reverse parts, it would have been the same thing (it is the game of the parties, it is there; we are here and that's okay). However, we are also starting from the assumption that this is not clear, which is why we shall be voting in favour of the suspension. I understand that the representative of the Government has not come to this House to say that there are still problems to be seen and evaluated, but that we are waiting for a technical boiling: this means that the amendment is there and has been tabled, [[comments from the PD Group]] But we're only waiting on technical issues. That is why the request for a suspension does not imply that someone tramples on the dignity of Parliament: you will have time to intervene on the possible position of trust or not, moving your remarks; there will be votes and you will be able to express yourself. It does not seem to me to trample on this House simply because we suspend for two hours waiting for the technicians to actually tell us that everything is okay. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] All right, the debate, we are, we take note, you have done your job, you have done it well, there are cameras, there are televisions, they have all seen you and so fortunately we can now proceed to the vote. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u66	I'm sorry, but what are you asking for? MIRABELLI (PD). The order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I take note of the enlightening speech by the League's Parent Company. I have only been for one legislature in this House, and I have never seen the Government calling for the suspension of the sitting of this House to request a boil on an amendment. I would like to understand what amendment we are talking about: are we talking about a maximing, so the government is telling us that it is waiting, in order to put trust, to have the boiling? We would like clarity on this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u67	Senator Mirabelli, I let her speak, but we were actually about to vote. MIRABELLI (PD). I am asking for an answer, because understanding what amendment we are talking about is not irrelevant to the vote. [[Senator Verducci points out that he wants to intervene.]] I'll put it to a vote... Mr Verducci (PD). I'm asking you to talk about the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You have already spoken, we cannot speak on the order of business, we are voting at the moment. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] I shall put to the vote the request for suspension of the work. Mr Marcucci (PD). But until what time? PRESIDENT. - The debate is I shall put to the vote the request for suspension of work until 4.30 p.m. It's approved. FARAONE (PD). Shame! [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u69	Excuse me, Senator, but we just approved the suspension.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u70	Mr Verducci (PD). No, you haven't suspended yet. I would ask you to allow me to speak on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. Mr Verducci (PD). I must stigmatize what is happening in this House: the sitting has been suspended at the request of the Government, without knowing what the content of the request was, on a mysterious ghost amendment, of which nature is unknown. Let me say, Mr President, what we have witnessed on your part: instead of guaranteeing the prerogatives of this House, you have allowed the majority to violate the guarantees of this House. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Yes, Mr President, because the fact that trust has been announced not by the Government, but by you, violates the prerogatives of the new Rules of Procedure and guarantees for this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u71	Senator, I invite you to respect the rules, because the suspension was decided by the vote. Mr Verducci (PD). I have the utmost respect, President, for your personal and institutional status. President, let me finish! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The democratic exercise in this House is carried out through the vote and the House has decided to suspend it, so the sitting is suspended. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group]] . (The sitting was suspended at 13.35 a.m. and resumed at 16.41 a.m.) Let's get back to work. He asked the Minister for relations with Parliament and direct democracy, Mr Fraccaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u72	Mr President, the Government submits to the Presidency, pursuant to Rule 161 (3) - 3b of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the text of an amendment entirely replacing Article 1 of the bill of conversion of the decree-law under consideration, on which, subject to the permission of the Council of Ministers, it intends to raise the question of trust. [[Comments from FI-BP and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u73	In accordance with Rule 161, paragraph 3-b of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency reserves the right to evaluate the text of the amendment in accordance with and for the effects of Rules 8 and 97 of the Rules of Procedure. I suspend the sitting until 5 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 4.43 p.m. and resumed at 5.20 p.m.) Colleagues, forgive the delay, but reading the text was more complicated than I thought. Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidency has examined the entirely replacement amendment tabled by the Government. This amendment, in addition to transposing all the amendments adopted by the first permanent Commission, with some amendments of mere drafting, contains nine additions. In particular, the additions incorporated in the maxi amendment reproduce, with some amendments, the text of five amendments tabled by the rapporteur, Senator Borghesi, to the Commission, which were subsequently withdrawn and then transformed into agendas: 31,0.600, 35.0.601, 35.0.602, 35.0.603 and 38.0.600 (correct text); the text of a series of amendments, already submitted to the Commission and retabled for examination by the Opposition Groups at the Assembly: 1.25 (Mist Group), as well as the identical 12.37 (Italy Brothers), 12.38 (Forza Italia), 12.39 (Democratic Party) and 12.43 (Mist Group); the text of two amendments tabled directly to the Assembly by Senator Grassi. In particular, one of the amendments which contained provisions on the functions of the staff of the prison police force in the matter of security was incorporated in the maxi amendment, limited to paragraph 3, which allows the national prosecutor anti-mafia and counter-terrorism to avail of a core composed of officers and agents of the prison police body for the acquisition and analysis of data from the prison environment. The further amendment, at first signing Grassi, which amended the text of Article 23 of the Decree-Law on roadblocking, was also incorporated with amendments. Finally, the President takes note of the conditions represented by the General Accounting in the technical report, which will be evaluated by the Budget Commission. In view of the close relevance of the additions proposed to the provisions of the decree-law under consideration, the Presidency considers acceptable the amendment submitted by the Government, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 97, referred to in Article 161, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure. He asked the Minister for relations with Parliament and direct democracy, Mr Fraccaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of confidence in the approval of the amendment entirely replacing the single article of draft law No 840, conversion to law of Decree-Law No 113 of 4 October 2018.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u75	The Presidency takes note of the position of the matter of confidence on the approval of the entirely replacement amendment submitted by the Government and forwards the text of the amendment to the 5th Permanent Commission pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure. I therefore call upon the Conference of Leaders to organise the relevant debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u76	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education (Maurolico) in Spadafora, in the province of Messina, who are attending our work. [[Applause]] The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 5.25 p.m. and resumed at 6.21 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u77	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the amendment entirely replacing the bill of conversion of the decree-law on public security. Two hours and forty-five minutes were allocated to the debate, which will begin once the opinion of the Budget Commission has been received, to conclude today's sitting, on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. Explanations of vote will take place tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. He'll follow you. After the vote of confidence, the draft laws on the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry into the banking and financial system and on the national cancer register network will be discussed from the drawing up site. The sitting is suspended and will resume at the end of the work of the Budget Committee. (The sitting was suspended at 6.23 p.m. and resumed at 7.21 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u78	I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on Amendment 1,900, which is entirely a substitute for the single article of the draft conversion law.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u79	The Economic Planning Committee, the budget, examined the further amendment of the Government 1,900, relating to the draft law in title, transmitted by the Assembly, expresses, as far as it is within its competence, an opinion that is not precluded, conditional, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, on the insertion of the following amendments: - Article 32- bis, establishing the High Studies Centre of the Ministry of the Interior, replace the first two paragraphs by the following: "1. For the valorization of the institutional and professional culture of the staff of the internal civil administration, the Centro Alti Studi of the Ministry of the Interior is established within the Department for the policies of the staff of the civil administration and for the instrumental and financial resources, which operates at the educational-residenz headquarters, with tasks of promotion, organization and realization of initiatives, also of seminary character, aimed at the study and deepening of the regulatory and administrative profiles related to the exercise of the functions and tasks of the internal civil administration, as well as the realization of studies and researches on the powers of the Ministry of the Interior. 2. The Centro Alti Studi of the Ministry of the Interior, without prejudice to the organic endowment and contingent of prefects placed at the disposal in accordance with current legislation, is presided over by a prefect with functions of President and operates through a board and a scientific committee, whose members are chosen from representatives of the internal civil administration, university teachers and experts in administrative, historical, social and communication disciplines. The President and the members of the bodies referred to in the previous period shall not be responsible for the payment of any remuneration, reimbursement of expenses, contributions or tokens of presence denominated in any case. The Centro Alti Studi of the Ministry of the Interior does not constitute an articulation of managerial level of the Ministry of the Interior."; - in the same Article 32-a, in paragraph 3, replace the word "reduction" with the word "use" and replace the words "available for" with the following: "destined at"; - in the paragraph: "In Article 39" in point (a), press the following: 0 (a); after the words: "Articles 9, 18," add the following: "comma 3, limited to 2018,"
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u80	Undersecretary Molteni, will the Government accept the opinion of the Budget Commission?
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u81	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u82	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u83	Mr President, what a difference between 2008, which you will remember, and today. In 2008, at the beginning of the legislature (it was the first time I entered the Senate) we discussed security decree-law and security bill. But the government of that time, the last center-right government, was concerned with reaching the unanimity of Parliament on paragraph 25 of Article 2 of the security bill which concerned the rewriting of 41-a, and we managed to achieve unanimity. Today this is not done before the offer of collaboration and request for corrections. You see, Mr President, the decree-law that was fired and on which trust was placed needed some additions and corrections, which we had formulated with special amendments. There was a willingness to vote in favour, because we needed to reaffirm the need for security against attempts to counter it in our country, but we were told no. Moreover, today, Mr President, I have discovered something that I do not even know how to define: the rapporteur of the draft law of conversion has submitted five amendments to the Commission and has then decided to turn them into agendas, which, with the Government's favourable opinion, have been removed from the discussion and discussion. I do not know what was the reason for all this, since the rapporteur himself has tabled the same amendments in this House as he had turned into agendas; you understand very well the difference between the preceptive rule and the agenda. I then asked myself why: is it not by chance that - here I am addressing the President of the Budget Commission - you had given the opposite opinion at the first stage, since those five amendments concern the clearance of occupied houses? I turn to Mr Salvini, whom I appreciate for his determination (but also in his determination we need to have the ability to dialogue and confront those with whom an electoral and government programme has been presented, in case we have won the elections): why have those evictions not been carried out before? I thought that perhaps the Budget Committee felt that the funds allocated were few and that there was no consideration for the owners of occupied houses, since for compensations two million were established for the whole of Italy. Do you realize this is ridiculous? It is one thing to achieve mackerel - and I agree - but we must also achieve compensation, a serious compensation to the owner of the occupied house, because if we want to restore the legality in our country, we must start from violations and minimal operations. In the same way, for occupied houses too, owners should be given back the possibility of setting up the necessary restructuring measures after employment. I do not think it is possible to continue with this way of regulating or acting in this House. We should get used to it, regardless of the majority and opposition, as we did in 2008, to finding solutions that are in the general interest, regardless of our political position. Beware that the policy, the identification of your Group and the identification of your party take place on the choices and general options, not on the individual rules. The effectiveness and the possibility of determining a change in the country's way of life must be assessed on the individual rules: not a change in words, but a change in the reality of the facts. So when we have to get rid of them, that means that we no longer create the conditions for employment. Then we need more police forces. [[Recalls of the President]] I realize that I can no longer speak, but what is there, Minister, is little for the police. I hope that his words can be followed by deeds, which means extending the funds to be allocated to the police forces, guaranteeing the possibility of serious intervention so that there is greater security in cities and countries. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u84	She is registered to speak Senator Rossomando. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u85	Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues, of course, the first thing we want to stress and that you, the majority, certainly expect from us is the denunciation of freedoms. You rightly expect - and we do not disappoint you, from this point of view - that we say that we cannot compress personal freedom without indicating certain parameters, for unreasonable times, for a long time, as you do again, in the identification centres, without there being a connection to the legal criteria. You rightly expect us to say - and we say so forcefully - that we cannot treat a humanitarian issue in a bureaucratic way or as a matter of public order alone. We cannot compress freedom, humanity, legal certainty, the principle of equality of all citizens of the world before the law. Integration cannot be abandoned. It is not the price necessary to have more security and serenity in our homes. You expect this and we repeat it. I don't know which living rooms the Deputy Minister frequents (surely he will explain it), but it is not a problem of living rooms, it is a problem of which roads trample, which paths of history, which municipalities are frequented, which stories of mayors, regardless of the political side, that have engaged in integration paths, for their communities in order to find solutions. Of course you expect this. But we want to tell you something else, and we want to tell the citizens: it is not the price that is needed to have more security. The Italians, on the other hand, are paying a price to political propaganda, with a measure that is not marked by more rules and more order and that will give them more insecurity. You have given many justifications today: inequitable practices, faster, all things for which there had already been measures to improve, because the increase in commissions you did not invent, we did it rightly, but if there is continuity it is fine. Humanitarian protection, which included people in a visible, controllable and integration path, is deleted, without prejudice to the controls that were to be carried out on the viability. It is not a measure of more rules: people are forced into clandestine paths and irregularities. You want to make them invisible and in doing so you give them to organized crime, with heavy consequences; you make them a bit 'invisible extending their stay in the identification centers, knowing that - given to the hand - it is not the extra time that gets more results on the identification (it has also been said by the guarantor for the prisoners and for the persons in the way of identification that the data are absolutely identical, regardless of the time of stay), but if you keep them closed and you make them disappear for a while, you give the illusion to the Italians that a problem has been solved. You made the SPRAR, a project shared by the municipalities, practically unusable, which gave the opportunity to deal with the problem in a much more wide and manageable way. It was an experience on which one could invest and which the National Association of Italian Municipalities (ANCI) recalled so as not to kill already ongoing projects. You know very well that you will not be able to make forced returns because we need international agreements and cooperation, which is not the figure and strategic plan of this Government. Finally, as well as merit, I believe that the political method should be denounced. Once again, in fact, the majority and the so-called Government of Change have helped us - I would never use these terms because I think they hurt, but you have used them in the past and continue to do so - to a theater of the worst politics. The Government of the so-called change has reproposed the by-product of what in the past denounced as moments of mediation and agreements, which are high moments of politics. Political mediation, however, must take place in the parliamentary classrooms in order to be high and useful, with a parliamentary debate. Then it's a high mediation. We do not belong to terms such as 'agreements', 'inciuci' or anything else - indeed I reject them - but how to define these last hours that you have made us live in Parliament? I can't find any other references. How can we define an impasse between what is being discussed here and what is being discussed in the House in a somewhat improvised and - allow me - amateurish way? What is the innovation on the method of politics, but above all, for what interests us, for democracy? Are these the new models of democracy? We have been firm these days and these last hours because there is obviously an ongoing negotiation whose price or political exchange is not yet known. From this point of view, the opposition to this measure can only be on the whole, but above all we want to denounce the citizens that there is very little change and that perhaps it is true, even in this case, that when history sometimes repeats itself it never repeats itself at the same level, but in a farce. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u86	Senator Berardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u87	Mr President, there are days and hours that are a little excited: there are those who get off the plane, those who tweet, those who go on Facebook. Everything is being done, unless we are talking about security in this House, about the decree-law and our amendments, on which we have been working for more than a week with passion and without obstruction to bring something more to a measure that we largely approve, but which can be improved. I wanted to steal you a few minutes to tell you about an unfortunate event that happened in Grosseto on the morning of November 1st. A lady, while trying to go to work quietly, as she did every day around 7 a.m., is chased, thrown on the ground violently, beaten and even attacked by a beast. In fact, it can't be defined as a man. There is someone who has called it such, but surely those who carry out these acts are only and only a beast. Luckily, with her promptness of reflections, she managed to divide herself and she did not achieve what was in the intentions of the beast. Thanks to the intervention of the Forces of the Order he was also arrested. I really hope he rots in jail. I hope that Minister Salvini will send him back to his home because these are people who have to serve their own time at home and on this I am and we agree [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] There is, however, a problem. Minister Salvini has declared that four policemen and 15 policemen will arrive in Grosseto. All right, well come on in. They will arrive in February but, unfortunately, they would serve before and - perhaps - would serve 40 policemen and 150 policemen. We know, in fact, that our Forces of Order are in shortage of staff. They intervened promptly to arrest this beast, but we must do something more. We need to be on the ground. Today we don't have to be on Twitter or Facebook. Today security is given on the territory, it is given with the presence of our forces of order, it is given by voting on the amendments that we had proposed with my colleague of the Group, Maurizio Gasparri, also in favour of the Forces of order, to have more and more resources. This, in fact, is what is needed. We really need to give a sign of presence. We need to prevent and make sure that these people really don't even think about being the creator of these terrible acts. Because for me who tries to offend the woman is only and only an animal; it is a beast, that must be returned, if possible, to his own place of birth or, if perhaps an Italian citizen, must still serve up to the last of his days what he has done. Right now I'm here physically talking to you about the security decree-law, but my heart is in Grosseto. Forgive me if I say it again, but if I repeat it is because at 7 pm a demonstration began to light the light. A demonstration of solidarity with that lady, to whom of course all my solidarity and closeness goes and, I hope, also that of the whole House and also yours. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I heard her a few minutes ago, through a mutual friend, and I can assure you she's okay, actually, she's better. It is not exactly true, in fact, to say that he is well, because the wounds will surely heal, but what will remain in the mind of the lady is the attempt of aggression, which took place just on 1 November last, that he will morally remember for the whole of his life. However, as I said, right now I feel with my heart in Grosseto, along with them, to light the light. I hope, however, that the light will be lit in every part of Italy, thanks to a security decree-law that we will certainly go to vote but that we wanted to have the opportunity to improve: without obstructionism, but only and only for the good of our citizens. Security comes first. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u88	He is enlisted to speak Senator Jacob. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a sad day for me, perhaps the saddest of my presence in Parliament. I, who live abroad and I am part of the great family of Italians in the world, find myself having to decide on how to vote on a decree-law that encourages discrimination rather than civil coexistence, which closes the doors to those fleeing from hunger, war, persecution, which encourages social divisions rather than promoting integration. More importantly, it identifies the problems of security in our country in fear of difference and fear of diversity. It is as if the criminals are only immigrants, different from us for the color of the skin or because they do not speak our language well, and instead organized crime, not the mafias, the mafias of illicit trafficking, of politics, of power. I wonder, thinking of all this, how the millions of Italians who emigrated and continue to emigrate to all over the world in search of a better job and a better future would have reacted if, in the countries we went to, we had found a law similar to what we are discussing today in the Senate. It also surprises me as colleagues who often, in words, praise social justice and the defense of the weaker classes are today promoters and accomplices of such a measure. I, Mr President, can only vote no to this decree-law. It is not with the violence of the law that a better society is built. We must overcome the fear of diversity and achieve integration processes. It is a long social process, which the law should encourage and which the ruling class should encourage, inviting the community to tolerance. It is the same process that we migrants have had the opportunity to live in first person and that has allowed us to integrate and be part of multicultural societies in the countries where we live. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Having said that, Mr President, allow me to refer to Article 14 of the Decree-Law, which deals with the provisions on the acquisition and revocation of citizenship. I do not want to go into the substance of these provisions which have the negative effect of restricting the right of citizenship. I am referring instead to two amendments which we have tabled, which concern a very sensitive issue for our communities abroad and which, because of the use of trust, we cannot discuss or vote. An amendment aimed at reopening the terms for the repurchase of Italian citizenship for Italian residents abroad who lost it before 1992. The second amendment met the need for full equality, the regulatory effects on citizenship between men and women and, in particular, those women who, emigrated abroad in the last century, were deprived of citizenship for themselves and their children as a result of a rule of the Italian citizenship law dating back to 1912; yes, precisely 1912, not 2012. Unfortunately, the majority remained deaf; the aim was to resolve an unfair situation with regard to those born in Italy who lost their citizenship and failed to get it back under the 1992 law. It is a residual audience of people and of advanced age who have suffered an injustice even moral; people who have the desire, as they personally tell me when I meet them, to end their lives with the recognition of their citizenship of birth: Italian citizenship. I am surprised, Mr President, that the Vice-President of the Council, Mr Salvini, says the Italians first. Perhaps, in his definition of Italians, we do not include our fellow countrymen born in Italy, but who today live abroad. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Unfortunately, we have lost the opportunity and as time goes on, the number of people who could avail themselves of these rules becomes smaller and smaller, if anything, they will be approved. I don't despair. In the 1960s, one of the greatest defenders of civil rights in human history stated: "I have a dream." It was Martin Luther King who said: I have a dream, that my four children will live one day in a nation in which they will not be judged by the color of their skin, but by what they are, that is, human beings. Allow me, Mr President, I too have a dream; I have the dream that our fellow citizens in the world will be able to regain Italian citizenship, but above all I have the dream that Italian society, contrary to what the Government proposes today, will reflect in the future in full the beautiful qualities of the Italian people, including tolerance, humanity, altruism, generosity and civil coexistence, which all of us Italians are proud to have. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u90	Senator Garnero Santanchè is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u91	Mr President, first of all I am sorry to have to say that we did not like the attitude of the Government during the past days and yesterday. We can understand everything, but we call for institutional education and respect for this House and for the institutions. The Brothers of Italy Group has always said that on the decree-law security his votes were there and there would be because we believe that however a great step has been taken. We realize that from Alfano to Salvini the world has changed and we note this with satisfaction and we cannot deny that many are the right things that we have shared. We regret, however, that the issue of trust has not allowed us to discuss our amendments in the direction of what all of us in the centre-right have said in the election campaign. We are all aware that security and immigration are issues on which Italians have rightly shown that they have great sensitivity; for this reason we did not like the fact that we were not allowed to make our contribution to what for us is the decree Salvini more than the decree-law immigration and security. Minister, I am very pleased that you are here, because I believe that this is an attention on your part that not all ministers have, and we thank you for that. However, I would have liked to have liked to have introduced the crime of Islamic fundamentalism in this measure, because I believe it is very linked to the insecurity of Italians. I thought it was a common feeling of much of this government that it wanted to put an end to hate preachers, funders of DIY mosques or the many Islamic centers of worship that are not regular, whose budgets we do not know, that we do not know from whom they are financed. I thought this was an issue absolutely shared by you and this government. Too bad, you missed an opportunity, but the Italians lost it, because there is nothing about hate preachers and the introduction of the crime of Islamic fundamentalism. We are also sorry to note that there is nothing about the contrast to international mafias, with particular attention to Nigerian mafias, because we know very well (and we do not say hate preachers) the racket of the exploitation of prostitution, that the dealers of death in front of the schools of our children very often are just them and instead all this has been lost in the drafting of the decree Salvini. I am very fond of the term ruspa. I must confess that I always liked it, because it made good and gave the plastic representation of the end that should have done all the Roma fields. Instead, the measure did not accept an amendment of ours which provided for the removal of Roma camps by 2019; this was not enshrined in the immigration and security decree either. Positive is the grip on humanitarian protection, but in our opinion the meshes are still too wide and there are too many special cases. Finally, Minister, there is no topic dear to the Italians and to all of us: that of expulsions. I believe that Desirée cannot be forgotten so few days after his death and I must not remind this House that those who killed her were people who were not supposed to be in our country. They were people who had to be kicked out, whom I keep calling illegals and who should not have been on national territory and maybe we would have an extra life today. I am also Catholic and I always thought that who saves a life saves the world and instead also on the subject of expulsions there is nothing in the decree Salvini. I conclude my speech by saying that the Brothers of Italy Group will always be there on security issues. We don't think it's so much worse. Every time the Government or yourself, Minister, has done something right, we have not only stressed it, as I said at the beginning of my speech, stressing that from Alfano to Salvini there is a world of difference, but we wanted more courage, we wanted that many of those words used in the electoral campaign, in the talk shows, in the squares and among the people, for you too could be translated into action. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u92	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the middle school "Paolo VI" and of the Institute "Ludovico Pavoni" of Tradate, in the province of Varese, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u93	Senator Astorre is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u94	Mr President, I would like to call the decree-law in question a clandestine decree. You, Mr President, may wonder why. Well, I think that security must be pursued with integration and acceptance: especially with integration, because if there is no integration of our cultures and people who have the most weaknesses and need, it is only underground, which often, if not almost always, can feed the ranks of malvivence and delinquency. I think it is clear to everyone, ladies and gentlemen, why this is not a security decree, but a clandestine decree. We are thinking of the substantial repeal of permits for humanitarian reasons and the substantial dismantling of systems for the protection of asylum seekers and minors. In this regard, I would like to congratulate you on the fact that we approved the law on the protection of unaccompanied minors in the last parliamentary term, as well as many other laws on rights, which was also an important law. Mr President, at this point I would have expected so many return agreements, because, with all the permits we deny and with all the protection systems for asylum seekers and refugees (SPRAR), which we disband, I thought there were agreements with the nations of origin in order to be able to repatriate the applicants immigrants. However, I do not find a return and not an additional return agreement. In fact, the risk is that even those countries with which we have signed return agreements will not, by means of "waving" all of them. Wasn't the main theme of the election campaign to repatriate all illegal immigrants in a few months? Mr President, the fundamental danger of this decree-law, I repeat, is that illegality should be increased, because when a person who is in Italy is denied a humanitarian permit, sees every reception system dismantled and every hand stretched out and is not repatriated, does it not increase the ranks of illegality, in which often - very often - they can lurk the trade, delinquency and prostitution? I would have expected more state and more money for the Forces of Order, but there is no euro for the strengthening of the State, nor for the strengthening of the Forces of Order. We must reject the idea that the reception and integration of immigration is against state security. It is not true: the more welcome there is and the more integration in our social and territorial services, the less clandestine and delinquency there are. Mr President, I shall conclude by saying that, dear Salvini, we only increase illegal immigrants by means of this law. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u95	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet a delegation of volunteers from the Pia Opera Croce Verde Padova, who is attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u96	Senator Grassi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are at a political and parliamentary stage to which the Government attaches particular significance. This phase highlights our objective of pursuing the general interest, the quality of civil coexistence, the spread of well-being and culture and sustainability as a beacon of our development. The main objective of the decree-law that we are examining is to restore the principle of equality. As is well known, the principle of equality, according to a teaching that dates back to and is authoritative, consists in treating unequal situations, identifying, in the specific case, the point of balance between solidarity and the effectiveness of State intervention. The fight against inequalities is part of the soul of the Movement, it is a pillar of the political and social commitment of the Movement and this Government. Soon we will be called to discuss a budget law that contains first of all the funds to implement the citizenship income: it is a historical battle of the Movement, it is true, but it is also a battle of civilization. Citizenship income - it should be stressed - means supporting, for a transitional period, those on the margins of the labour market and on the margins of dignity, because they do not have an income or do not have enough to lead a dignified life. To the detractors I remind you that among its supporters there is even Milton Friedman (who certainly cannot be blamed for having extreme positions), who believes that it is necessary, in a mature economy, to cope with the inevitable cyclical crises. To be honest, Friedman defined it as a negative tax; but I do not bore you with further details. The same direction was then taken in the decree of dignity, approved in July, which intended to give a first answer to the problems of precariousness, a misconception that deprived an entire generation of their future. So let us talk to those workers who were asking for more protection and who have the right not to be full-time workers for years and years. I would remind you that, in order to achieve this objective, it is also essential to support the companies and industrial activity of this country, which is an element related to the protection of the worker, because the worker cannot be protected if the work is not there; and the work is given by the companies. So, beware, it is another profile that also falls under our attention, as a government first. Let us not also forget that in that same measure we have dealt with the problem of gambling, because gambling is a drug that spreads precisely in times of crisis, when citizens and people are deprived of hope. [[Senator Malpezzi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u98	Senator Malpezzi, don't worry.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u99	GRASSI (M5S). We therefore believe in the work and the indispensable role of workers and businesses in achieving a healthy economy. Combating inequalities also means self-styled acts of Parliament, because equality is a principle that applies to everyone or to no one. So here is our intervention in terms of vitality and privileges, if we want to call them that. But let's call them by their name: welfare services, peculiar, the result of a single ius. Well, we've closed the bad chapter on the vitals in the House and the Senate. MALPEZZI (PD). But this is the security decree! GRASSI (M5S). Ladies and gentlemen, a rule of law is not such if sanctions are not effective. So we are preparing to intervene also in criminal matters in order to address, for the first time in Italy, the issue of corruption, a theme that weakens and vulnerates the action of this society and the action of our economy. [[Comments of Senator Bellanova]] We want a change in the statute of limitations, because the principle of legality is not such if the State fails to prosecute crimes committed on its territory; a reform that is consistent with constitutional principles, but that contributes to a full realization of the sanctioning function of the State, which - let us remember - is also mentioned and underlined by numerous judgments of the European Court of Justice. The process is not just a prescription, let's not forget it. The citizens are calling for more efficient, faster justice. Therefore, it is also our concern to provide the means to those who administer justice. We must not forget all the actors in the process - everyone, no one excluded - because without them the process cannot be supported. It is good, therefore, to put all the parties involved in the best possible conditions to work and ensure what, in any case, is a common objective; whether one is a lawyer or a judge, everyone works for the same objective: to ensure justice for the citizen. Our commitment will be inflexible against the mafia and organised crime; we know how important this issue is for our development. We know well how much resources are drained of this serious social experience - I do not mean plague, because it is an abused term and has lost meaning - from which we are difficult to free ourselves, but we will free ourselves. Let us remember that organised crime - as some well-known people have said - is a human fact and, like all human facts, has a term. We are in full swing to change this country; we are five months away from the government's establishment. Well, we have already achieved important goals that we are proud of. STEFANO (PD). Where do you live? GRASSI (M5S). It would, however, be short-sighted to believe that effective government action will only be resolved within national borders. The relationship with Europe is an essential point of all reasoning, whatever the opinion you want to have, as a filter of analysis of the relationship between States, between them and with the European Union. This government knows well and strongly warns that it governs a country that is part of a continent, the European one, pregnant with creativity, desire for progress and well-being. Woe to those today who think they can be a monad. No less, the recognition of our role as a Member State and founder of the European Union does not prevent us, rather it requires us to make criticisms and observations, where we should believe that others are wrong. Let me stress that the opposition presupposes that one recognizes in the other not an enemy, but an opponent, and the opponent contrasts with arguments, discussions, facts and proposals. And that is exactly what we intend to do. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senator Malpezzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u100	Senator Malpezzi, don't worry.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u101	GRASSI (M5S). I would like to remind you that this European Union - I have stressed very well that it sees for us the recognition of its historical and social importance - has imposed such a severe economic regime on Greece that it is indifferent to the protection of the weakest. I refuse to believe that a supranational body can one day become a state where it can really think that budget balance is more important than people. I remind you that the protection of the person is a principle of constitutional rank, is our lighthouse and has been so since the beginning of the foundation of this Republic. MALPEZZI (PD). What article is in this provision? GRASSI (M5S). Our dialectic with Europe - because it is dialectic - is also a commitment to progress and civilization so that it is clear - let me say this playful quote - that the last ones will be the last if the first ones are unattainable. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u102	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u103	Mr President, while I was checking the notes to try to say something smart enough, I read Senator Nugnes' statement, which communicates to all of us through a press agency that tomorrow, together with three other senators, will not vote for trust. I think this is news; if you haven't read it yet, I'll tell you. I would very much like to go into the substance of the whole measure; we have already done so in the Commission. We are a little concerned, albeit happy, about a measure such as this to the attention of this House with regard to some of these cases, some of the amendments which have been approved by the Commission. I will try to be more political than technical, having been I administrator of long course of the territory of my city and having had to deal with a whole series of problems and unresolved issues: with the beggars in the parking lot, with the abusive parking lot, with the unpunished people circulating on the territory, with subjects who are arrested in the afternoon and released in the evening; with people to whom we gave hospitality, we gave spaces, we gave more than what we were able to give to our fellow citizens, Italians or foreigners, but resident in our territory. Those same people delinquency, but still maintain the same rights and characteristics that we gave them as a kind of hug to receive them on our territory. I mean, if there is any problem of unconstitutionality about citizenship, I am quite disinterested and, therefore, it was good for the government to go in that direction: you have to take it away from them, you have to send them home. In this regard, there is a lack of force in the decree-law, so much so that at some point I thought that the colleagues of the League had softened somewhat from this point of view: I have seen you a little tarnished, colleagues. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I am telling the truth, I know you - particularly Undersecretary Molteni - as the most combative and combative people on this front. We did demonstrations together, we do them again, and we govern many cities, including mine. But frankly taking lessons - I tell you - from colleagues in the Democratic Party I never expected that. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Colleagues of the PD, today you have defended measures that have destroyed and disintegrated the Italian territory in recent years. You spoke of the SPRAR as the manna from heaven, when it was the ruin and the noose around the neck of those mayors who accepted it thinking of going in the direction of solving the problems of the Italian State and condemned themselves and their communities. The SPRAR should not be lightened, as was done in the decree-law under consideration; it should be deleted. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] That is why I say to Undersecretary Molteni that we should have done more. The SPRAR must be deleted: it is an institutional disgrace, a legislative disgrace. It must be removed definitively, because dozens and dozens of families are waiting for the house today, waiting for work, waiting for help from local authorities, and we are unable and unable to give answers. And you come to talk about solidarity? Solidarity must be done to those we have at home. [[Applause from Senator Berardi]] These are the things we need to think about. We are embarrassed, sorry, dismayed that we cannot vote on the security decree-law. We are dismayed because, if the Government has decided to put the question of trust on this provision, to people like us, who share with the League the government of Regions and cities, living together all the problems that I have just mentioned, appears an unjust, incorrect measure. I am very sorry, very sorry, because such measures must not be subject to a matter of trust. These measures must be left free to be amended and improved by the House, which has the right and duty to vote on them. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that we believe that this measure is an improvement on the situation we have witnessed so far. We believe that this is a necessary measure. We believe that this is an important measure, but we very much hope that having put the question of trust is not an element of exchange for a tragedy that I have just heard from my colleague Grassi that it is called a prescription, because on this you do not have to - please - step back. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Someone tells you that he has given up his prescription for his own judicial matters. I believe it is civil, in a democratic state, that such measures cannot come from a government of which a serious ally is part, as it is for me on the territory of the League. Therefore, I recommend that we watch and on this - I honestly say this - we will not and will not want to make discounts. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u104	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u105	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are measures whose inspiring philosophy is far more important than the substance and measures. There is no doubt that some corrective rules compared to devices of the past can also be considered right by those who speak to them. I am thinking of the changes to the road code which also have an influence on the issue of security; I am thinking of interventions that encourage the work of the Forces of Order and that are properly disposed. The philosophy that inspires the measure, however, marks a point of passage decided by a society open to a society founded on ethnic nationalism. This is not the measure that marks the passage. This is the measure that starts the transition from the society in which we have lived, the daughter of intentions and republican values, to something that seems of a decidedly different nature. On the merits I gladly remind Senator Santanchè that in the middle, between Alfano and Salvini, there is the resolution of the issue of landings entrusted to the Minister of Interior Minniti. It is not a leap that can be made easily or simply, and it is the reason why, on the substance, I define this measure as ambiguous. And I call it that, Mr President, because, if he had been hired at the moment when we were in the midst of chaos and difficulties caused by an excessive number of landings, he would have had a reason to be. But it has no reason to be in these terms when the topic landings can be considered buffered - and I read the numbers, this evaluation does not concern a subjective opinion - since June 2018. On the substance, in this case, eliminating humanitarian protection means creating a very real risk, that is, the risk of having potentially at least 60,000 migrants who come mostly from countries with which we have not contracted any return agreement. I quote four: Gambia, Pakistan, Mali and Senegal. On this front - and I spend my minutes on the subject, giving me one on the political consequences of this measure - ambiguity is linked to the difference between what is publicly supported and what is actually written in the measure. There is a premium for reception centres run by private individuals; there is no doubt that this has led to greater insecurity on the ground over time. There is no forecast of involving regular migrants in socially useful work for the community that hosts them; it was a measure that had been planned, programmed, of which there is no reading. I don't think like Senator Mallegni. I followed the migrant issue a while ago, for one part. There is no doubt that the SPRARs, that is, hospitality in small communities, have generated fewer problems than the presence of large numbers of migrants within small local communities. There is no certainty of punishment. As we are debating in a branch of Parliament to change the terms and times of the prescription, I would have expected that, beyond the general view on the certainty of the penalty, we could also read in the measure a concrete measure that would make it operational. Measures against black mafias, which now manage and govern certain markets, are lacking - it has already been mentioned - in the lead of the drug market. And God forbid, Mr President, that it will remain - but will remain - that measure which concerns beggars. It has been a controversial issue for centuries. The Church decided - and I say this as a layman - that it is not up to us to examine the lives of others and has become a fundamental principle in all the liberal democratic Constitutions. It is not enough - I address the absent interior minister Salvini - to show the gift received from the Madonna of Medjugorje. It is appropriate to show less the Madonnas, Medjugorje or from whatever holy place they come from, and perhaps to stick to a constitutional dictation. The last question concerns the political consequences, which have not been discussed at all, at least so far. Politics, Mr President, is compromised. There are high compromises, mediocre compromises, low compromises. We are faced with a measure which does not present any form of compromise. We are faced with the failure of the 5 Star Movement in relation to the agenda dictated by a minority component, even in the majority polls, which composes the Government led by the President of the Count Council. There is no doubt that there will be effects; they will be political effects and they will not only occur in surveys. Who writes the political agenda always wins. The problem is the component that is next to those who write the political agenda, all the more so when faced with a break in the soul. This measure represents, for the world 5 Stars, an exversion to the values that, at least in this field, have sustained for long years. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Petris]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u106	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u107	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have already said, in the general debate, when the Government's amendment had not yet been tabled and expressed confidence, that the security decree, for me, for the Forza Italia Group, was and remains one of the most important measures. Mr Mallegni rightly said before me that these are such important measures for the citizens who were waiting for them that they would need the cooperation of the parliamentary groups and Parliament, as Senator Caliendo also reminded us. This applies to us twice, because we have been campaigning in colleges, but also with individual and proportional lists, on security and immigration. It was no coincidence that we prepared a number of amendments and, above all, tried to understand where the resources were to protect a measure so long awaited by the citizens that it had to be approved. We came here on Monday and worked on this. Now we find ourselves with an amendment or a maxi amendment by the Government - I do not know exactly what you want to call it - which obviously does not collect our indications, but contains only one amendment proposed - I think - by Senator Gasparri. 20.26 (Modena follow). We are faced with some content that we share: I am thinking of video surveillance, which is very important; I am thinking of the issues on which the Municipalities are in complete disagreement with what the Democratic Party says, because they do not hold up the presence that has been imposed on local communities over the years by excessive numbers of non-EU citizens in the name of reception. So, we share the provision from this as from other points of view. However, we are not in a position to make the contribution that we would have liked to make - frankly, I say this - even with enthusiasm. In the election campaign, we seriously thought that the issue of immigration and security could not be reduced only to perception is right or wrong. It is the scream of a people, of the Italian people, who can no longer stand up, from the point of view of the social state and the services we give, a welcome, as imagined by the Democratic Party, which instead has provoked - let us be honest - social conflicts, crimes and the degradation that we are witnessing today and to which we are trying in part to put a piece. In such a situation it is decided to put trust. I wondered, why do they put trust? The Government knew perfectly well that it had the necessary votes: they had declared it Brothers of Italy and the Forza Italia Group. Frankly it remains an incomprehensible question mark, because it is the classic measure that would have had no problem passing, as it was for self-defense, without the need for a vote of confidence. Having said that, I do not repeat myself about some things that were dear to my heart and that I have already said before. I would like to remind the women who sit in this Parliament that there is a prediction - and I am speaking in particular to the women of the majority - that it is that of electronic bracelets. We are pleased that the possibility has been extended to cases of ill-treatment in the family and in case of stalking, but look that there is no money, no resources are provided, so you can find yourself faced with cases, as happens every day, of maltreaters put to the housekeepers who then remain there without the bracelet. One last consideration, given that there has been talk of a prescription: be careful, because the 10,000 recruitments, of which so much is said and which should cover magistrates, Forces of order and I think also some place in the public administration, cannot to date meet the needs that should be met instead. This was to be a moment - in our opinion - of great celebration and joy for those who were elected and did battles in the center-right. We regret and do not understand why - I repeat - trust was placed, since the votes to approve it all together, as we did also for the measure on self-defense, were there and had been declared. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u108	He's enlisted to speak Senator Patriarch. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u109	Mr President, today I listened with interest to Mr Molteni's speech, rounded up, conciliatory, and I would also say that I agree with some of the opposition's passages, so much so that I felt that I had the wrong decree-law, sitting and position. Then I reread an appeal that some associations have addressed to us all, and that I allow myself here to reread, that made me recover from the loss generated by those statements so welcoming, supportive and punctual about what is being discussed. I allow myself to read it, even though I think you've all read it, because I think it can help us to understand what we're talking about, to sort out the subject behind the clandestine decree. I read it: The Decree-Law of 4 October, which is being converted into law, introduces in its first part radical changes in the rules of asylum, immigration and citizenship, some of which have been added by means of amendments that further harden an already very harsh legislative initiative. In advance, we observe how the transition from the figure of the residence permit for humanitarian reasons to a limited number of residence permits for "special cases" would require some additional measures compared to the provisions of the decree-law, which are suitable to make this passage less traumatic. At today's date, in fact, about 140,000 people holding a humanitarian residence permit risk falling or falling under a condition of irregular residence that will expose them to the risk of extreme poverty, marginality and deviance. With regard to the new rules on residence permits for special cases, we express concern that such residence permits are configured as extremely precarious permits, almost always non-renewable and non-convertible, for example, in a residence permit for work reasons. This means that after the first year of application of the new discipline, many of those who are about to take a residence permit will lose it, becoming irregular. In the name of security, therefore, we are creating a tightening of the rules of residence which will increase the propensity to illegality and will make social cohesion more fragile for Italian families, while for companies it will become more difficult to legally find young and motivated workers, for the sole benefit of the few dishonest entrepreneurs and organized crime. On the other hand, we are convinced that there can be no real security without the knowledge that, in the face of the absence of adequate regular flows of entry and a drastic drop in landings on our coasts, it is necessary to promote maximum integration and not venture into rules that risk widening the irregularity. The signatories therefore look with great concern at the loss of the sense of balance and moderation in immigration policies, replaced by the satisfaction of gestures and signals of hardness which, however, by producing suffering, do not solve the problems but exacerbate them. The signatory associations - I assure Minister Salvini - are not subversive: Comunità di Sant'Egidio, ACLI, Centro Astalli, Associazione comunità Papa Giovanni XXIII, Casa della Carità di Milano, Caritas Italiana, FCEI (Federazione delle Chiese Evangeliche in Italia), Tavola Valdese, Fondazione Migrantes. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u110	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u111	Mr President, I would like to say a few words in order to say goodbye to me with relief and pleasure. I am referring, fortunately, to the amendment in the maxi amendment: the original text of Article 23 of the Decree-Law on roadblocks has been amended. In fact, that article provided for the modification of a rule that lives and accompanies us in our order for seventy years, unchanged until then. But Article 23 provided for a worsening of the penalty or, indeed, a different penalty: not more of a pecuniary type, but detention for those who obstruct or prevent road traffic. It is clear that the State cannot encourage such attitudes; however, if that rule had not been amended, it would have gone from a pecuniary and administrative sanction to a prison sanction which provided for an edittal window from two to twelve years of imprisonment: more precisely from one to six years, but the penalty would have been doubled if they had participated in the demonstration or a sit-in at least two or more persons. Fortunately and with great relief - it had strongly attracted my attention and concern - Article 23 was amended by accepting the amendment tabled by Senator Ugo Grassi that I had also asked to subscribe if it had been subject to examination and vote. For my part there is only this communication of relief because it was a rule that would have a strongly liberticidal character, that could be used in a dangerous way by the usual officials of public order or prosecutors and that would have seen - I repeat - for this crime the application of a sentence from two to twelve years for those who manifested peacefully, without using violence or threat to things or people. It was really something undigestible. The vote of confidence on a decree-law for those who, like me, shared the parliamentary past in the last legislature is never a pleasant thing, but one of the main risks, dangers and less digestible aspects of the decree-law under consideration has failed. Therefore, I would like to thank the majority and of course also the proposed senator, who saw the amendment become a legislative amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pinotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u112	Mr President, I listened very carefully this morning to Mr Molteni, who is now not as attentive to my speech. Undersecretary, now that you listen to me, I tell you that I listened very carefully to you in your reply. There are passages on which you have spoken that find not only my agreement, but also that of the whole Democratic Party. When you say that you will assume 8,000 units in the law enforcement and police forces, how can we not agree on this, being, moreover, a measure for which we have put the resources for hiring? [[Applause from the PD Group]] When you recall the need to speed up the territorial committees in order to verify asylum applications and, therefore, to speed up the process, you rightly referred to the 250 that were hired in July. And they were hired because we did a contest and you made the prediction to hire more. The speeding-up of the route by which a migrant is told whether he is entitled to international protection or not is a point that we certainly agree with. Similarly, we are dealing with difficult, but important, work carried out for the situation in Libya because, without cooperation with that country with regard to stability and security policies, it is very difficult to intervene in those territories. Given the extremely difficult situation, it is thanks to the agreements made in past years that the UN and UNHCR and migrant associations can enter Libya. They couldn't do that before. But from this point of view, we think that the steps that can be taken in that country are certainly important. As we agree on assisted returns: we have worked very hard and we have had significant numbers compared to them. On the transparency of the accounts, I remember that the relative provision had already been outlined by the last Government. We see, however, a gap in exposure. On the one hand, you say that we must make returns much faster; but on the other, you ask us why agreements have not been made with other countries so far. The countries are still the four with which Italy has long been in agreement. [[Applause from the PD Group]] On the subject of relocations, which you did not mention today, we passed, at the European summit where these issues were concerned, from mandatory relocations, however carried out, even though with difficulties - some countries did not want to accept them; but, in any case, in other countries there have been - to voluntary relocations. I agree that Europe has been deaf in recent years in sharing the problem on this issue, but since you have been working on this issue, it has become not only deafer but also more closed. What, in fact, he had previously accepted, is now no longer accepted. Relocations become volunteers. Here, however, the part on which we can say that we find shares ends, because then the sign of this measure is completely contrary to what we have tried to do, and not because a state does not have to manage immigration legally, which is very correct, but because there is a sign of punitive will, as regards the situation of the migrant, that we do not share. We believe that the issue of security should be and remain united with a theme of humanity. The most striking example in which you see this philosophy of yours, which we do not share and indeed deeply dislike, concerns SPRAR. That of the SPRAR and, therefore, of the widespread reception was a theme on which until now there had been an agreement by governments of different sign. In fact, it has always been said that it was one of the models that we could present in Europe. In fact, there is no doubt that, where there are large centres with large numbers, in a situation in which no one can manage the overall living and safety conditions, this is a negative element; while the possibility of having a widespread situation is, also from the point of view of safety, a better response. You know that not all municipalities accepted the reception: out of 8,000 there were about 1,200. On the basis of the experience gained, I do not agree with the intervention of the senator who preceded me who said that the municipalities were obliged. I have heard many municipalities: some municipalities have not accepted SPRAR and others, instead, that they have managed to do so and manage this path with intelligence, have had important results. To better understand, as the theme is complicated, in recent months I have also tried to understand how Caritas and the community of Sant'Egidio have acted, i.e. who has dealt with integration paths that have worked very well. Listening to the experience of those people, the first thing they say is: small numbers and spread. The second thing concerns the fact of integrating: teaching to use public transport, teaching the language, inserting immediately into the school, making sure that you can learn a job; and all this with the figure of mediators who have been cited. You're gonna take the SPRARs out? No, you keep them for those who have already finished the journey and are recognized as in need of international protection and for unaccompanied minors. However, you will soon exclude from the SPRAR route those who are waiting to understand whether or not they are entitled to refugee status. She gave us numbers today and told us that you are doing an important job: there were 140,000, now there are 110,000. Today the time to conclude an iter is about a year and a half. I imagine that with the greatest effort you can reduce by a few months, maybe even six months; I exaggerate by saying that the time can be reduced by half. Well, keeping even eight or nine months of thousands of people in a condition where they just wait, in large centres, with a risk for security, is a punitive message to them, but also, paradoxically, an element that contradicts all that seems to be the philosophy of your intervention. It is a situation that makes it more insecure because only a path of integration allows you to have better control and a better situation. For this sign, which changes radically also some questions that you take from an already defined path, we are profoundly opposed to the philosophy underlying the provision. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u113	Senator La Pietra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u114	Mr President, I too, like Mrs Garnero Santanchè, would like to stress the presence of the Minister who, after so many kilometres, has also come to hear what is said in this debate. I was hoping, Minister, that it would come a little sooner, because maybe a lot of misunderstandings wouldn't come out. Today, after so many stops and many resumptions of the provision, we arrived at the epilogue and, unfortunately, we do not like it. Having decided to put trust on the measure traces in fact a precise groove with which in practice it says: there are those who are in the government and who are not. 20.50 p.m. (Follows PIETRA). The measure, however, Minister, needed the support of many, others. As Senator Mallegni also said, there was a real possibility of improving the measure; in fact, we share the underlying philosophy and we are convinced that the policy that has managed immigration up to now has been unsuccessful. I said this yesterday in general debate and I repeat this: those who have failed to manage this emergency situation have in fact institutionalised lawlessness, transforming illegal immigration into humanitarian reception. This is the real problem and hearing today that probably with the decree-law at our examination many people will go back to hiding, not surprising. They were already in a situation of non legality. The decree-law goes in this direction. But it is not enough, Minister, because we were convinced that with the measure you could finally say in a strict way: in Italy you do not enter if you are not regular; in Italy if you delinqui discounts your sentence and if you are a foreigner go back to your home to smash it. Instead, with the decree-law, in our opinion a little 'down and that it did not have the opportunity to enjoy the support that even with the amendments of Brothers of Italy wanted to give, the message that comes out is that if you arrive in Italy there is a "perhaps": if you enter and if delinquency maybe you discount the penalty. We wanted to get rid of this whole thing, maybe. We wanted it to be a very precise message. On the subject, Minister, our amendments went in that direction and we were also quite grounded when, for example, they were declared inadmissible amendments which, as Mrs Garnero Santanchè mentioned, concerned the introduction of the crime of Islamic fundamentalism, on which I believe you are rightly doing a political battle to be claimed. The amendment proposing to eliminate the torture offence is also unacceptable. This law that we do not understand, but that in fact takes away the dignity of our policemen and policemen, because it does not allow them to do their job well. Amendments calling for the expulsion of European citizens who do not have the opportunity to remain on our territory, following a European directive, as well as amendments calling for the eviction and demolition of Roma camps, have been declared inadmissible. I would not like to make an easy joke, Minister, but I hope that the snouts are not over, because otherwise we would not agree objectively. Our proposals have always been inadmissible so that foreign citizens of Italian origin can have a privileged channel to obtain citizenship. Many other amendments have been rejected, such as those on safe roads. We have tabled an amendment aimed at restoring road patrol; many mayors from all political parties are telling us that the patrol carried out by that operation had killed some 20% of the crimes on the ground, yet you have rejected that proposal as well as others. For example, we asked to include, as regards the use of Taser, the possibility of consulting the databases by the municipal police, not only the municipalities over 100,000 inhabitants, but also all the provincial capitals; you did this with an amendment in the Commission, but we said to ensure that all the other municipalities, having heard the Provincial Committee for Public Order and Security (composed by the prefect, the quaestor and the mayors of the territory that have a true perception of security on their territory), could also request to return to this extent. Instead, you rejected our proposal and approved a measure in which you included a number of parameters, including the number of municipal police officers based on the population, or the number of traffic offences committed on the territory, as if they could allow the state of safety to be assessed. I mean, Minister, even a camorrist or a mobster can stop at the red and go green. I conclude by saying that some fellow senators have posted posts on Facebook asking why the Brothers of Italy Group criticizes the provision. We do not criticize the measure, because we agree on the security and measures contained in it, but the fact that it is most likely due to political problems within the majority does not have the determination that instead Brothers of Italy wished. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u115	Senator Valente is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u116	Mr President, I should like to begin by making a comment. Ever since this measure took its first steps, it has been immediately clear to all of us in this House and I also believe outside of it, as many of my colleagues who have spoken in general debate have mentioned very effectively, that we were essentially faced with a manifest law, the one that for many months this majority led by Matteo Salvini had announced and signalled to the whole country. Then we went ahead and read it (and the more we read it and the more we understood this provision) it was even clearer that it would be a measure with few, very few, effects on the real issue of security and with many dramatic and devastating effects on the issue of immigration. It has been said and I do not intend to repeat myself and extend on this: thanks to the choices we are making today there will be more illegality in our cities, greater social marginality, more exclusion and obviously more tension, therefore other than security. It was thus increasingly clear that the only objective actually pursued by the measure under consideration was to allow Minister Salvini once again to wear the shoes of the embosser: an iron man who plays with the basic principles of human rights as if they were principles at his complete disposal. I am sorry to disagree with my colleagues. I do not want to thank Mr Salvini who, at times, in a rather discontinuous way, is here tonight. He makes statements (we read one per minute) about the value of this measure, and I do not think he was present in this House even at the time of his debate, as perhaps everyone would have expected. So no thanks. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I therefore want to come to the point, Mr President. The point is that our Constitution tells us that the presumption of innocence, the right of asylum and citizenship, on which I want to intervene in a particular way with reference to Article 14 of the decree-law in question, are not rights for some, the A-series citizens, and concessions kindly offered by the Minister of the Interior for others, that is, the alleged B-series citizens. On the other hand, the decree-law before us introduces exactly this type of discrimination, which is shameful and unacceptable to us - I say this quite clearly. What is even more serious is that this clearly shows how false, to tell the truth, Mr Salvini's statements on his intentions to always distinguish - we have always heard - the regulars from the irregulars, applying strict rules and rejections to the latter and denying any discriminatory attitude or thought towards the former. Eh, no! In the face of this measure we have the certainty that, beyond any merit assessment, there is a basically abusive and discriminatory logic towards anyone, both regular and irregular. If this is true throughout the measure, it is particularly true with regard to Article 14, i.e. with regard to those who require citizenship: as far as these rules are concerned, this becomes even clearer and clearer. In Article 14 of the decree-law we are faced with foreigners who ask to obtain Italian citizenship or even citizens who already have this citizenship. Much has been discussed about the revocation of citizenship towards those who are not Italian by birth and have been sentenced for crimes for the purposes of terrorism or the exversion of the constitutional order. In the meantime, I would remind all of us - perhaps not the case - that we are talking about very small numbers, but beyond that, in any case, the effect of this rule on the system and our order will be to say the least disruptive. It will open the way to the possibility of predicting and codifying unequal treatment between Italian citizens, by virtue of their origin, for the commission of the same crime. Today, with this act, we are in fact predicting different consequences for the same crime. I tell my fellow Members that I have also seen very cynical and instrumental intervention on this point. As a woman, allow me to say that many of us in this House are very concerned about this problem. [[Applause from the PD Group),]] but that in cases of violence there is no difference if to accomplish it is an immigrant, a foreigner or an Italian, as well as there is no difference for any kind of crime: never. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Therefore, we intend to prosecute these crimes in a serious and rigorous way, with penalties up to the level, and we do not take any step back, but there is no distinction if to commit the crime is an Italian or a foreigner, because this is an inadmissible distortion of our rule of law, of which we sincerely, until now, are proud and proud. Let us be clear: no discount for those who are guilty of these serious crimes, but this can never and never mean the derogation from a fair penalty and above all always the same for all. Mr President, I repeat: it must be the same for everyone. If in all our courts, above all the rules, the principle that the law is the same for all of us, there must be a reason. It makes sense to us. Colleagues, do you still have it? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Is the law always the same for everyone? If this is not the case, if all citizens are no longer equal before the law, we will say goodbye to citizenship as we have known it in two hundred years of history in our country and say goodbye to a fundamental principle of the legal and political civilization of Europe. Maybe it won't be a problem for you, but I assure you it is for us and certainly it is for many Italians, today proud of our great and extraordinary legal tradition. There is more, because as I said the heart of this article is yet another. If you increase without any justification, from two to four years, the time when a foreign person will be recognized citizenship, both through marriage and through naturalization, and if this measure extends also to the procedures already in progress, then it seems clear to me that the intent of the decree-law is really only to make our country more rejecting, to make it more closed and more oppressive, against those who, in full respect of the rules - I stress - ask to become an Italian citizen. I would like to ask all the Members of the 5 Star Movement who in the last parliamentary term had said that they were in favour of the ius soli if they are really willing to vote on such a measure, which is exactly the opposite. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , and vote for it only for an indecent pact with your government ally, only for the exchange agreement that is taking place in these hours between provisions dear to your majority, starting with the rules on prescription. We are faced with unfair measures, which will only result in more frustration and anger in those who have long been making regular demands and who will see the hope of a stable future taken away only because of the arbitrariness of an unjust norm. This is the greatest and most unbearable distortion of this text: to convey the idea that in our country there may be special laws regimes, forcings and slowing downs introduced with the sole objective of dissuading a subject from exercising a right. I mean, that's the real amount of this government. It had nothing to do with the will to fight illegality and to create security, because within the measure of funds and interventions against the criminal organizations that live thanks to the smuggling of migrants there is no shadow of it, nor for measures aimed at making our territories safer. The Democratic Party had asked the Government, with an amendment, to cancel all measures on citizenship; we did so because they all bear the unworthy signature of the suspicion of the will of punishment against anyone who is not of Italian blood. Doing so would have made this text a little less unfair. I wonder, but perhaps I remember badly: did Minister Salvini recognize that, when regular, migrants could even be a healthy opportunity for him for the country? Where is this principle? You have chosen, and I conclude, Mr President, after days of dances and hesitations which have embarrassed this House seriously and unprecedentedly, to raise the barrier of trust, thus making it impossible for any improvement to be made. You did not do this to avoid four or five votes against by your majority; you did it because you feared - I say rightly - that on those 70 secret votes the greatest lie would be broken told to your voters, namely, dear colleagues of the 5 Stars, that you were still a force...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u117	Conclude, Senator Valente.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u118	VALENT (PD). ...which makes the rights of the last, respect for the dignity of people and the protection of the main human rights always a priority. With this measure you demonstrate your true nature, that of a force that, in the name of a pact of power, of principles to be safeguarded has very few, and that the cultural matrix of your leaders is much closer to the League and racist right than you will ever be willing to recognize... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Valente, either he concludes or I'll have to take her word off; we're over the extra minute. VALENT (PD). ...definitely much more than your voters are, who are deluded to find in you a leftist force. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u119	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u120	Mr President, at this time the speech can only be brief, if I can, and a little pyrotechnic, because yesterday I forgot about the arguments. Then I heard Mr Mallegni speaking as mayor, like others in here talking about their experience in the field, and I wanted to add a few things. To my country, which has 2,000 inhabitants, the pastor, when he preaches, tells me that first look if I am there and then see what he can say. We flipped the roles: he does Peppone and I do Don Camillo. I tell him that he preaches in a way and then tells me to brake in private; that means that there is a change, a reality different from what appears. I apply the theory of the henhouse: if in a society where males and females are born in more or less equal numbers, according to mother nature, too many males are admitted, as Merkel did two years ago, the balance of the henhouse is broken, because it is so, it is nature. Then the night of Cologne happens; in my opinion, when a historical judgment is given on this matter, it will be said that it was a fundamental stage of the decadence of Western civilization that was attacked. Women who were raped in the streets on New Year's Eve could not press charges, because the German authorities asked them not to press charges and, claiming that the news was not trendy, asked the newspapers not to publish it. Let's go deeper, let's talk to the Germans, the ones who lived. The hen theory makes me say that if we only care about men, we're gonna end up badly. Then there is the question, which I have also heard from other colleagues, of our emigration to America. But that was a completely different historical context, where boundless America needed arms and minds (then we also exported a little underworld, but little). That was another context, where you went with precise rules, you accepted those rules and you worked hard. This is exactly the opposite. There is a society that has the problem of birth; but I would not want to solve it with the method of the henhouse, be clear. I would like to resolve this with the Italians, but we are in exactly the opposite situation. We are a population with adequate density, we do not need it. Isn't he human? Let us help them at home, as the holy Mother Church always said and supported when she reasoned again, before the openings of the last times. The Catholic bishops of Africa say to Africans: Dear young people, do not emigrate, for we need you here; you are the ones who have studied a little; you are the strong ones and who work. Even there are industries; Africa is growing, it's not what we think, we've all seen it. If we want to look frankly and truthfully, without ideological remnants that in my opinion no longer belong - at least in part - to Italian society, perhaps we should apply - because we risk preaching and obtaining the opposite effects - a principle similar to that of Trump: first the Italians, first Italy. We're going to the SPRAR. SPRAR is a mechanism of enormous complexity, made of bureaucracy, which has no real response. Everyone does what they want, everything happens, there are ghettos. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] There are people who live and occupy the worst, most decadent spaces in society, then we say that we did the SPRAR. Cuneo's prefect tells me: You must take the immigrants. I have 2,000 inhabitants, I have no public buildings that are not used; fortunately I have no hotels in disuse. I heard the city council (single list), and they told me: We don't care. I wrote it: "I don't care about SPRAR or immigrants." An official of the prefecture says: "You can create one or two jobs, because you get assistants." What kind of assistants are these? What kind of jobs are they? From me, in my country, the workplace is a place that produces bottles of wine to sell, to export, earning up and paying labor, also good, and also taxes. That's the concept we have. Wouldn't we be human? I believe not, because on a personal level, always according to holy Mother Church, I am firm in principles but tolerant, available to personal charity. All those who come to our country - a few fortunately - and who have adapted themselves are helped: they do not pay for the canteen, they do not pay for the transport of pupils. If they are few, we can do it; but when they are more, I do as the Municipality of Lodi: I can't, it doesn't exist, they pay. Dear immigrant, do you have the paycheck? Yes. Are you okay? Yes. How much do you make? 1,500 euros? You pay then, like ours. Let us say things as they are, as mayor and administrator practice, that in this House, fortunately, you can say everything you think. Thank you for your attention, but first the Italians. [[Applause from the FI-BP, L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S groups and undersecretary Molteni. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u121	I have to say, the Don Camillo part does it perfectly. Less well I see in Peppone instead Senator Mallegni.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u122	Senator Campari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u123	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to say from the outset that we are finally heading in the right direction. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Finally, security and order. This word that you hate so much on the left that it is so strongly envyed to you, but that you have long been in great need of in this grievous country, is finally coming. Finally, order. Finally, on the subject of immigration and security, a serious, far-sighted measure, just and for once, it happens, on the side of citizens, on the side of the quality of life of citizens. Finally, yes. This word "finally" hides a little regret: that the Italians did not have the opportunity to vote before and stop while you reduced this country in the most complete chaos regarding the immigration system in Italy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Even yesterday you had the courage to speak of perception, referring to crime, and to deny that we are in a real emergency. Then have the courage to go and say it in the squares, and let's see what happens. Go tell those citizens that for more than six years they have been undergoing a policy of reception that we would call mad, if it had not been a thoughtful and shared choice from all that world that has enriched itself on the skin of the desperate and the Italians. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You've been handing out wrong messages - deliberately wrong - for years to direct public opinion in a chic and good-natured way. Your information channels have helped you: mass media and various testimonials, more or less famous, more or less ready to collaborate with the reception system. But the game's over. A strange period begins now; a period in which politics is related to reality, and not to the world of fairies, unicorns or trinaricuites. Tomorrow we will vote for confidence in a serious measure, which includes a whole series of measures and rules aimed at improving the effectiveness of the action of the Forces of the Order: operating rules that - enough to talk to the agents in the field, basically - meet the needs of those who until yesterday were cast in their action of control of the territory both for the lack of such rules and for the lack of a state deployed in their support without if and without but. And if there were any doubts about what I just said, let's remember who thought of introducing the torture crime for the law enforcement forces. Yesterday in this House I heard about a dangerous regulatory vacuum. Well, it is now clear to everyone that the only vacuum that exists and which is heavily cumbersome is that of your political action. Where were you in all these years when the territory begged for help, intervention, a minimum security law? Where were you? Our policy is different: realistic, concrete and operational (non-cooperative). [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We legislate by introducing clear and impacting rules in favour of the safety of Italians. With this measure we will act by putting a stop to the reception business, defining precisely the fees for access to special protection for humanitarian reasons and we will allocate state resources to integrate in our society efficiently only those who really have the right. If we talk about the SPRARs and the previous governments, all aligned on the management of the SPRARs, we must refer to the Governments Letta, Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri: it is not that they had such different colors! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We will immediately reject the asylum applications of those who are guilty of crimes, of those who bite the stretched hand of those who are ready to help him in a few words. No room in Italy for illegals and thugs, then. We will introduce new rules to combat mafia crime because - let us remember - the mafia is a cancer that must be fought and defeated; never lower the guard. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We will be empowering the equipment allocated to road crews with new tools to quell situations of particular gravity. Conditions that - alas - are increasingly abundant since, unfortunately, we had PD to the Government. We will provide more efficient control and investigation tools for the Forces of Order to streamline and speed up their valuable work, because we believe, contrary to what a certain left claims, that more freedom requires greater security. Only criminals thrive in anarchy and chaos. What we are going to do with our support for this measure, Mr President - and I am going to conclude - is simply to start a process that brings the safety of Italians back to a minimum level of normality. Nothing more. Therefore, I am very happy to declare our support for a measure strongly desired by the Minister of the Interior and our secretary, Matteo Salvini, who impersonates in everything and for all the essence of the League-Salvini Premier-PSd'Az. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u124	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u125	Mr President, we have inherited a broken country, which has been on its knees for decades of wretched policies. In just five months of government we have worked and we have put our hands on all the most urgent problems, realizing some of the main points of the program of the Movimento 5 Stars. We inherited a country that literally fell apart with infrastructure, roads, dangerous bridges: you left a mess to us, who were young. After the gigantic tragedy of Genoa we intervened by allocating extraordinary funding and starting a plan to re-evaluate all public works in order to focus on the most urgent ones for the security of the country. We have inherited a country depressed for years of unnecessary austerity and plagued by growing poverty and precariousness. With the so-called dignity decree, the maneuver of the people, income and citizenship pensions we are putting in place expansive economic measures that will finally breathe breath into our real economy, raise employment and counter poverty. We have inherited a country with a political system of ancien régime, characterized by unsustainable costs and intolerable privileges that have produced in citizens distrust in institutions and politics. With the abolition of the vitalities both in the House and in the Senate we were able to give a clear signal of change; a cost cut that will continue with a bill on the reduction of the number of parliamentarians. Let's start packing. We have inherited a country haunted by corruption and evil with which politics has not known or wanted to do anything for too long. With the so-called scrambled bill, we have lifted the penalties for corruption offences and introduced the Daspus for the convicted. But this, yes, we really have introduced it, and we are about to raise the penalties for the political-mafia electoral exchange. Get the mob out of the state! [[Applause from the M5S, FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. We have inherited a country where gambling is now a social scourge and we have taken measures against gambling, a country where the State also saved the dishonest banks and abandoned the swindled citizens and we have created a fund of 1.5 billion to help the victims of the scams. We inherited a country that irresponsibly welcomed and then totally abandoned to themselves hundreds of thousands of migrants, not only producing a collapse in the national system of protection and reception, promoting criminal business and exploitation of human beings in conditions of greater need in spite of the proclamations of a false and false humanitarian hypocrisy and above all producing an explosive social situation that feeds the spread of feelings of intolerance. In a few months, simply following the fundamental values of the Movimento 5 Stars, we have done so much. Much more we are doing today and much more we must do to realize the program of the Movimento 5 Stars and the government contract. The citizens, let's think about it, with their vote have entrusted us with the responsibility to change Italy really and finally; they have given us full confidence and we with this confidence must continue to work for the good of our country, President. [[Applause from the M5S, FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u126	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government. In accordance with the provisions of the Conference of Leaders, explanations of vote and call will take place tomorrow at 9.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u127	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-54.ana.u128	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 7 November, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21.22.
