ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-2.ana.u1	The sitting is open (10:43 a.m.). I call on the Senator Secretary to read the Minutes. Mr Lupo, interim secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-2.ana.u2	The next item is the vote on the election of the President. I would remind you that in yesterday's sitting no senator has reached an absolute majority of the votes of the members of the Senate, as required by Rule 4 of the Rules of Procedure for the election of the President in the first and second votes. A third vote must therefore be taken for the election of the President, for which an absolute majority of the votes of those present is required, including blank ballots. As was the case at yesterday's sitting, my fellow senators, before entering the cabin, will receive a card from the parliamentary assistants which, after the vote, will be placed in the appropriate ballot box when they leave the cabin. I declare the vote open by secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the senators' appeal in alphabetical order. (The Senator temporary secretary Wolf and, subsequently, the senators temporary secretaries Rampi and Di Micco make the appeal). Dear Dear Family, Dear Family, Dear Family, Abbé, Accoto, Agostinelli, Aimi, Airola, Alberti Casellati, Alderisi, Alfieri, Anastasi, Angrisani, Arrigoni, Astorre, Auddino, Augussori Bagnai, Balboni, Barboni, Barbano, Battistoni, Bonfrisco, Bongiorno, Bonifazi, Bonino, Borghesi, Borgononi, Bossi Simone, Bossi Umberto, Bottici, Botto, Polisa, Briziarelli, Castellone, Buchcarella Calderoli, Caliendo, Campagna, Campari, Candiani, Candura, Cantù, Cantù, Carbone, Cario, Casini, Casolati, Casolati, Casaldi, Castaldi, Castellone, Castiello, Caliendo, Cabin PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and I am in favour of the provisional Bureau taking the ballots in public. I invite two secretary senators to bring the urn to the bench of the Presidency. (Interim Secretary Senators proceed to the ballot box. The interim president shall read the ballot papers passed to him by the secretary-general and shall forward them to the interim secretary senators who shall take note of the votes cast). [[Live, sustained applause of the senators elected on the lists The Assembly stands. Live, sustained general applause at the address of Senator Alberti Casellati when, in the course of the scrub of the ballots, he reaches the]] quorum of the absolute majority of the members of the Senate. Congratulations). Reserve some energy for the final applause. I invite the Senators Provisional Secretaries to proceed with the counting of votes. (Interim Secretary Senators shall count the votes.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-2.ana.u3	I declare the result of the secret ballot vote for the election of the President of the Senate: [[Senators present 319 Senators voting 319 Absolute majority of present 160]] Senators got votes: [[Alberti Casellati 240 Fedeli 54 Calderoli 3 Pinotti 2 Segre 2 Gasparri 1 Romani 1 Zanda 1 Scheda bianche 14 Scheda nulle 1]] I proclaim elected President of the Senate Senator Maria Elisabetta Alberti Casellati. [[The Assembly stands. Live, prolonged general applause.]] Congratulations very much. Before briefly suspending the sitting in order to communicate the result of the vote to the President-elect, I would like to thank you very much for your valuable cooperation with the staff of the Senate, starting with the Secretary-General. [[Applause.]] A warm thank you goes to the magnificent temporary secretaries. [[Applause.]] I would like to thank all of you, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, for your generous welcome yesterday. [[Applause]] , for making my work easier in any way and for the sense of responsibility which this House has shared and which is the sign of identity of the first sitting of the new legislature. Happy birthday to you all. We will meet again in this House. [[Live, prolonged general applause. The sitting was suspended at 13.28 a.m. and resumed at 13.43 p.m.]] [[The Assembly stands and salutes the entry of the newly elected President Alberti Casellati.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-2.ana.u4	I invite the newly elected President, Senator Maria Elisabetta Alberti Casellati, to assume the presidency of the Senate. [[Live, prolonged applause. President Maria Elisabetta Alberti Casellati goes up to the presidential bench and shakes the hand of Senator Napolitano. Very lively, prolonged applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-2.ana.u5	[[He stands up.]] Dear Senators, Dear Senators, in assuming, by your will, this very high office, I want, first of all, to send a grateful greeting to the President of the Republic [[Applause),]] which represents, as head of state, national unity. Greetings to my predecessor, Senator Grasso [[Applause]] , which was able to preside over this House during an entire parliamentary term, leading the work at moments of great institutional importance not without political contrast. A cordial greeting to the president emeritus Giorgio Napolitano [[Applause]] , that as I climb on this scrounge from which I speak has played the role of President in the three highest positions that provides for the Constitution of this country. The political forces, even in the dialectic of the different roles that will be defined in the next stages of the institutional framework, all express the whole community. The shared awareness of common legitimacy is an essential condition for a good government. The Senate, which I have been called today to preside over, and all the institutions that define our constitutional form as a whole, reflect, in this legislature which since yesterday has taken its first steps, the profound changes of a political framework in many ways unpublished, the result of a precise will of the people, which, in constitutional forms and limits, belongs to sovereignty. Unity of intent is needed, even in the diversity of opinions and guidelines; awareness of the difficulties not separated by reasonable optimism; mutual respect of political forces in the wake of common rules. You will forgive me for the emotion, but the choice you made by electing for the first time a woman to the presidency of this House ( [[Live, prolonged applause]] It is a responsibility for me that I cannot hide behind any preamble of circumstance. An honour as well as, as I said, a responsibility that I feel should be shared with all those women who, with their stories, actions, example, commitment and courage, have built Italy today. A great democratic and liberal country, in which no objective and no goal is any longer foreclosed. I think of the never-enough reminiscent of Risorgimento heroines, who fought for that dream called Italy. I am thinking of the many girls of every social background and of every religious belief, who have represented the soul of the liberation struggle and who - let me be allowed - are here today masterfully represented by Senator Liliana Segre. [[Live, prolonged applause.]] I reread my first Senate surgery this morning. It was the discussion on the vote of confidence in the first government of Silvio Berlusconi, on May 17, 1994. There began my journey as a servant of the institutions. Over the years I have had the privilege of having several public responsibilities, until the election, during the last parliamentary term, as a secular component of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. From today my energies will be directed to fulfill this prestigious role with discipline, honor, trying every day to put into practice those values that our Constitutional Charter, of which this year marks its 70th anniversary, has laid at the basis of the life of the Republican institutions. As a more legislative senator, I wish everyone good work, but especially to the many people who sit in this House for the first time. I saw that only one third of the senators were parliamentarians in the previous legislature. It is a macroscopic data of innovation that testifies to the great change that the country has intended to express with this vote and that this Senate will be able to represent well. But this House does not represent only voters, it represents all citizens and, therefore, the entire nation. One thought then goes also to 27 percent of Italians who did not vote. This is always a defeat for a parliamentary democracy. That is a worrying fact. To bring back to politics and to the polls such a large number of citizens must be a shared commitment, a commitment that is honoured with the presence, with the involvement, with the proximity to the territory, in a word with politics understood as a spirit of service. The last ten years have been marked, at an international level, by the serious financial crisis that has changed the world. Businesses, families, workers endured the burden of economic repercussions, supported sacrifices, had to change their lifestyle; a change that inevitably involved the same institutions. Today, more than yesterday, politics is called upon to give concrete answers with actions, example and results. It will be up to each of us to be able to face the new challenges to which we will be called, starting with a rethinking of the role and tasks of the State. Progress requires the ability to innovate, reform and question the certainties of the past in order to govern change. The issue of reforms will therefore be central, and the political forces will see that they give clear signals, by investing the issue of institutional set-up at all levels. Just as the completion of the reorganization of local self-governments cannot be ignored. The era of globalisation offers opportunities and knowledge, bringing with it, at the same time, the risk of new marginalizations, a risk that cannot be ignored or underestimated, starting from the real economy, starting from work. There are too many Italians who do not have jobs, especially among young people and especially in the Mezzogiorno. Industry 4.0 will change its approach to the world of work in the coming years. To the institutions the task of accompanying these processes restoring confidence in tomorrow, guaranteeing all rights and dignity, supporting those who have remained behind. Just as special attention will be increasingly needed to those at risk of marginalisation, the elderly, the disabled, too many citizens in conditions of social hardship and food poverty. How, moreover, it will be necessary to develop the theme of support for companies, production, to those who every day contribute to make the Italian brand the most valuable business card of ingenuity, creativity and the skills of Italians. We are crossed by new and disruptive global phenomena that invest the entire international community and must see our country as the protagonist, starting with the European Union. Our role as the founding country of the European Community requires us to help shape the path; a Europe alongside the citizens means attention to the real life of people and not just to the markets. A focus that must be strengthened with the help and availability of the Member States, starting with the emergency represented by migratory phenomena. On the international chessboard Italy has been able to carve out over the years a leading role that we are unanimously recognized, thanks to our presence, the policies of cooperation, the international missions in which our men and our women in uniform have been able to bring humanity, professionalism and help in every continent. My thanks go to them, with the thought to those who sacrificed their lives representing the Homeland [[Applause]] to build a better, fairer, freer world. My thanks also go to the many magistrates and civil heroes who sacrificed their lives for the defense of legality. [[Applause.]] To restore certainties, security, serenity means to be able to put our natural resources, our beauties, the real capital of our lands in the foreground. Italy is a kaleidoscope of priceless artistic and cultural stratifications. Consistent with our history and our historical, architectural, archaeological and natural heritage, we must strive to preserve and preserve these treasures in the name of sustainability and valorization. This will be the real and most important legacy to future generations, for which, not by chance, we are recognized as the primacy on the UNESCO World Heritage List. Senators and senators, the Head of State in his message at the end of the year, a few months ago, said that the elections opened, as always, a blank page and that the voters and, subsequently, the parties and Parliament wrote it. To them - it has remembered - are entrusted our hopes and our expectations. Colleagues all, let us make these hopes and expectations that the voters have given us are not disappointed and that they will finally find an adequate response. I trust that our intense work and our daily commitment will not be lacking. Certainly won't miss mine. Long live the Senate, live Italy. [[The Assembly stands. Live, prolonged applause.]] Thank you all.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-2.ana.u6	In accordance with Rule 15 of the Rules of Procedure, the parliamentary groups are convened for Tuesday, 27 March at 4 p.m. to proceed to their constitution if they have not done so before.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-2.ana.u7	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups is convened for Wednesday 28 March at 11 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-2.ana.u8	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-2.ana.u9	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 28 March at 3 p.m. on the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 14.01 p.m.
