ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-3.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 3 p.m. I invite the Senator Secretary to read the Minutes. Mr Di Micco, interim secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 24 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-3.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that on 24 March 2018 the President of the Chamber of Deputies sent the following letter: Dear President, I would like to inform you that the Chamber of Deputies, on 24 March 2018, elected me President in its first sitting and that, during the sitting itself, my inauguration took place. With esteem and friendliness. F.to: Roberto FICO. [[Applause.]] On behalf of my staff and the whole House, I wish President Fico every success. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-3.ana.u3	I have also received the following letter: Mr President, I would like to inform you that today I have resigned to the Head of State. The President of the Republic has reserved himself to decide and has invited the Government to remain in office for the handling of current affairs. F.to: Paolo Gentiloni.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-3.ana.u4	Pursuant to Rule 14 of the Rules of Procedure, the senators and senators have indicated to the Presidency the parliamentary groups of which they intend to join. The list of members of each Group will be published in the annex to today's report. On 27 March the parliamentary groups established them. The Presidency Offices are composed as follows: Gruppo MoVimento 5 Stars President: Toninelli Vice President: Crimi Vice President: Moronese, Patuanelli, Perilli, Pesco Secretary: Castaldi, Puglia, Santangelo Treasurer: Catalogo Gruppo Forza Italia Berlusconi President: Bernini Gruppo Lega-Salvini Premier President: Centinario Vice President: Candiani Vice President: Stefani, Solinas, Borgonzoni Treasurer: Borghesi Group Democratic Party President: Marcucci Gruppo Fratelli d'Italia President: Bertacco Gruppo Misto President: De Petris Vice President: Buccarella, Nencini Gruppo Per le Autonomie (SVP-PATT, UV) President: Unterberger
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-3.ana.u5	The Conference of Leaders, which met this morning, unanimously decided that, in accordance with Rule 24 of the Rules of Procedure, a special commission should be appointed for the examination of urgent acts submitted by the Government. In accordance with the above, the Special Commission will be composed of 27 members in proportional representation on behalf of the Groups. In addition to having the substantive competence of the individual measures, it will take over the powers of any other Commission in the consultative forum, including with regard to possible mandatory opinions. The parliamentary groups will appoint their representatives to the Special Commission by 12 noon tomorrow, Thursday 29 March. The Special Commission shall be convened at 3 p.m. on Wednesday 4 April for the election of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-3.ana.u6	Parliamentary groups are also invited to appoint their representatives to the Rules of Procedure Board by 12 noon on Tuesday 3 April.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-3.ana.u7	The next item is: Vote for the election of the four Vice Presidents, the three quaestors senators and the eight secretary senators. Pursuant to Rule 5 of the Rules of Procedure, each Senator will write on his ballots, respectively, two names for the election of the four Vice Presidents; two names for the election of the three Quaestors; four names for the election of the eight Secretary Senators. Those who obtain the highest number of votes will be elected. In order to prevent any possible misunderstanding, the list of colleagues with the same surname is available to the senators, indicating their respective names. Two cabins have been set up to simplify voting operations. My fellow senators will pass under the Presidency to deposit their ballot papers in the three separate ballot boxes placed at the exit of each of these booths. The call will be done in alphabetical order. Pursuant to Rule 6 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, I proceed to draw the eight members of the Voting Committee, who are responsible for the examination of the ballots. (The President drew the eight senators of the Voting Committee.) The ballot board is composed of the senators: Taricco, Cesaro, Leone, Binetti, Di Marzio, Magorno, Sbrollini, Zaffini. I declare the votes open. I call on the interim Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal. (In the course of the voting operations the temporary secretary senators of Micco, Borghesi and Rampi proceed to the appeal.) Vecchio Dederisi, Abate, Accoto, Agostinelli, Aimi, Airola, Alderisi, Alfieri, Anastasi, Angrisani, Arrigoni, Astorre, Auddino, Agugussori Bagnai, Balboni, Barboni, Barboni, Battistoni, Bongiorno, Bonifazi, Bonino, Borgoni, Bossi Simone, Bossi Umberto, Bottici, Botto, Bressa, Briziarelli, Bruzzone, Bucharella Calderoli, Caliendo, Campagna, Campari, Candiani, Candura, Cantù, Carbone, Cario, Casolati, Casolati, Castaldi, Castellone, Castiello, Castiello, Catalfo, Caliendo, Caliendio, Campari, Candiani, Candura, Cantù, Cantù, Cantù I declare the vote closed and invite the senators who are members of the Voting Committee to proceed to the ballot box, which will take place in the adjacent Pannini Room. Pending the results of the vote, I shall suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 6.30 p.m. and resumed at 7.55 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-3.ana.u8	I communicate the outcome of the votes held in this House for the election of Vice Presidents, Senators Quaestors and Secretary Senators. I communicate the result of the secret ballot vote for the election of the four Vice Presidents: [[Senators present 315 Senators voting 314]] Senators got votes: [[Calderoli 164 La Russa 119 Taverna 105 Rossomando 63 Zanda 3 Morra 2 Bellanova 1 Bonino 1 Gasparri 1 Mautone 1 White cards 2 Nulle cards 2]] I proclaim elected Vice Presidents of the Senate senators: Calderoli, La Russa, Taverna and Rossomando. [[General applause. Congratulations.]] I communicate the result of the secret ballot vote for the election of the three quaestors: [[Senators present 315 Senators voting 314]] Senators got votes: [[De Poli 165 Arrigoni 130 Bottici 115 Pittella 59 Malan 3 Borgonzoni 1 Calderoli 1 Faithful 1 White cards 2 None cards 1]] I proclaim elected Quaestors the senators: De Poli, Arrigoni and Bottici. [[General applause. Congratulations.]] Finally, I communicate the result of the secret ballot vote for the election of the eight Secretary Senators: [[Senators present 315 Senators voting 314]] Senators got votes: [[Tosato 131 Giro 129 Nisini 122 Carbone 119 Castaldi 110 Montevecchi 110 Puglia 108 Pisani Giuseppe 104 Margiotta 63 Ribbons 18 De Poli 2 Bressa 1 Di Micco 1 Lupo 1 Santanche 1 Urraro 1 Biti 1 White cards 4 None cards 1]] I proclaim elected secretaries the senators: Tasato, Giro, Nisini, Carbone, Castaldi, Montevecchi, Puglia and Pisani Giuseppe. [[General applause. Congratulations.]] On behalf of the Assembly and my staff, I would like to extend to the Vice Presidents, the Quaestors Senators and the Secretary Senators elected the most cordial wish for good work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-3.ana.u9	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. The Senate is summoned to the house. The sitting was closed at 8 p.m.
